ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u6085	I see a hand in the air, a respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u6086	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, I'd like to request a break of 10 minutes. Namely, tomorrow is the Memorial day of the Srebrenica genocide, and I would like to say a few words about it today in the Croatian Parliament. I would also like to share in the break all of my distinguished colleagues the flower of Srebrenica as a symbol of the memory of this terrible event.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u6087	Thank you very much. I'm setting a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u6088	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u6089	I'll see you at 10.55. I call on the representative of the National Minority Club, the respected representative of Nedzad Hodzic to address. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u6091	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. 17 years ago in July 1995, Srebrenica, or Srebrenica tragedy, took place. The protected zone, declared by the United Nations Security Council in April 1993 with the presence of UNPROFOR forces who arrived in the Srebrenica area immediately after the declaration of a protected zone with the task of safeguarding the safety of the population, is attended by General Mladic. General Mladic and his troops occupy a protected zone and separate men from women, mothers and husbands, daughters and sisters, separates fathers, husbands, brothers and sons. General Mladic liquidates more than 8,000 men from 12 year-old boys to 77 old people in just a few days in the most brutal way. The entire families are being repressed, the whole family is being killed, the entire nation is trying to destroy itself. There's a silver tragedy, there's a genocide going on. Instead of the dignified burial that every human being deserves, the victims are buried in unknown places in mass graves from which they are later re-excavated and transferred to the so-called so-called so-called graves. Secondary and tertiary tombs to cover every lead in the crime. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today we remember this terrible event and pay our deep respects to all the victims and condolences to their families. But the silver tragedy isn't just a tragedy of the Bosniak people to whom the victims of genocide belonged. The silver tragedy is also a tragedy of the Serb people to whom they belonged the perpetrator of the crime led General Mladic. The silver tragedy is a tragedy and all European and world nations who, despite the United Nations resolution and despite UNPROFOR forces' presence in the protected zone of Srebrenica, witnessed this terrible crime on the ground of Europe and on the threshold of the 21st century. And the tragedy of all the tragedies is the fact that Srebrenica happened and that just in the form of genocide several years earlier it was explicitly announced. The night of the 14th. On October 15, 1991, nearly 4 years before the Srebrenica tragedy in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Assembly of the mouth of Radovan Karadzic were also spoken these words, I quote: "Don't think you won't take Bosnia and Herzegovina to hell, and the Muslim people may be missing. For the Muslim people cannot defend themselves if there is war here." It's a finished quote. Thus, words have been said that if Bosnia and Herzegovina does not stay in Croatia, it will go to war hell, or the Bosniak people to disappear. So the genocide was four years before it actually happened announced. Dear colleagues and colleagues, allow me today to express my pride on the loss of genocide in Srebrenica on the eve of tomorrow's memory of July 11th as a member of the Bosniak people over whom this terrible crime was committed. Despite such threats made in the Bosnia and Herzegovina Assembly, the Bosniak people together with the Croatian people, including the large part of the Serbian people and other citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina, opted for the independence and independence of the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina as the highest form of democratic decision held on 29 February and 1 March 1992 as countries of three equal nations and all its citizens. The referendum included 64.31% of voters with voting rights, 92.7% of whom voted for Bosnia and Herzegovina's independence. Unsatisfactory and referendum as the greatest achievement of democratic decision-making, especially the results of a referendum in which most citizens of Bosnia and Herzegovina opted for independence based on the 1974 Constitution of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. The warlords decided to put Bosnia and Herzegovina in hell. My pride is that of my distinguished colleagues and colleagues as long as, after four years of aggression in Bosnia and Herzegovina, despite the far-suffering sacrifices suffered by the Bosniak people, but with a debt of pate to all the victims. The postwar message of my people again was peace and co-existence, not hatred and revenge. Because the co-existence of different peoples, religions and cultures is a Bosnian-Herzegovic past, present and future, but also the future of all humanity. And after the silver tragedy of the messages of the silver mothers, sisters, wife and daughters because the male heads were killed and this flower of Srebrenica that you all got today in this assembly, which symbolizes in fact the beauty of life, but warns that the horror of Srebrenica is no longer repeated. Dear colleagues and colleagues, parliamentary representatives, colleagues and fellow politicians, war is nothing more than a policy extended and guided by other means. The silver tragedy was not a war that, by definition, was an organized conflict between armed people as an extension of politics with such or such goals. In Srebrenica, there was a genocide where armed people plannedly, conducting an ethnic cleansing policy, killing unarmed and tied up some other people. That is why distinguished colleagues and fellow politicians want to remind us all that war but also genocide is the result of politics, that is, the result of the work we do. We politicians around the world when we forget dialogue and reach for some other means in achieving our goals we sow death, sow sorrow, destroy and destroy, play with the lives and fates of people of other people but also our own people. We challenge and wage war on other people's children, we seek excuses for them, and when we get tired of them, we sit at the table again, we negotiate peace of mind, and without meaning in the meantime of the human victims, material destruction and all the tragedy. That is why I call upon you, dear colleagues and colleagues, today in the Croatian Parliament, to remind you that today, when we are in the Croatian Parliament of the victims of a terrible crime that took place in July 1995 in Srebrenica, Croatia, from our Parliament, we are calling for all policies and all politicians around Europe and the world to never again and anywhere after the wars. That the tragedy of Srebrenica never again, anywhere and no one ever again.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u6092	Thank you very much. From this table I can say that Srebrenica is a reminder of history or a historical reminder, a cry never happened again. In a minute of silence, I'd like to offer a human pate to the victims of Srebrenica. - A minute of silence - glory to them. Dear fellow MPs, can we continue our work? According to the established agenda of this session of the Croatian Parliament, it is now up to - Proposal for a law on the enforcement of sanctions imposed on minors for criminal offences and violations, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 136. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the bill by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. the provisions of Articles 144 to 150. Croatian Parliament. The debate on the proposal was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. Does the proposal wish to be further explained by a representative or a representative of the applicant? Yeah. Deputy Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković Kunst. Here you go. There's also one of the MPs, and we don't know the reasons, so we're gonna ask him. Dear Representative Mladen Novak, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12729	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I'm sorry I came in a little later. Is this about the Children's Law? About minors, I'm sorry. Since the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports did not have a discussion, there is today a proposal for this law. I'm asking if this is even in line with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12730	The home working body is the Justice Committee. I'm sorry. We're going back to work. Your Honor, Deputy Minister of the Ministry, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12731	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is proposed to adopt a law on the enforcement of sanctions imposed on minors for criminal offences and offences. It is therefore an implementing regulation in the area of criminal and legal juvenile sphere. And we propose this law for the reason that, compared to the existing 2009 Penal Code, we were obliged to comply with the new provisions of the Law on Juvenile Courts and the special Penal Code, which enters into force on 1 January 2013. It was necessary to specify certain provisions in order to make the enforcement of juvenile sanctions more effective and the need to comply with these laws. The draft proposal for this law regulates the enforcement of sanctions imposed on minors and minors in criminal proceedings, which are therefore educational measures imposed on juvenile prisons and security measures, and sanctions imposed on minors in criminal proceedings. Also educational measures are the punishment of juvenile prison and protective measures. Subsidized application of the Law on Juvenile Courts, the Law on Social Care, the Law on the Enforcement of Prisons and the Law on Prosecution, the Law on the Protection of Persons with Mental Disruptions and Other Regulations is prescribed if that Law is not otherwise specified. The competent authority for the enforcement of educational measures between the Ministry of Social Care and those in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Justice. Thus, the ministry in charge of social care affairs will take care of specific obligations to refer to a disciplinary centre, to increased care and supervision, to increased care and to monitor the living room in a educational institution, to refer to a educational institution or to a special educational institution, while in the field of justice, there will be a reference to a juvenile prison and punishment. The jurisdiction of the call and referencing of minors to the enforcement of educational measures and the punishment of juvenile prisons as well as the appeal procedure has been extended. New specific obligations such as the availability of income, the ban on the approximation or harassment of victims prescribed by the applicable Youth Court Act are also laid down. New modes of the period of stay of minors in the disciplinary centre have also been prescribed. So it's no longer a Center for Breeding like it was an earlier term than it is now a disciplinary centre, so it's also termologically consistent. The draft law stipulates that the Centre for Social Care is obliged to designate a person, a leader who will carry out an educational measure of enhanced care and supervision carried out in accordance with an individual programme of treatment against a minor. Specificities have been prescribed on the execution of a juvenile prison sentence in respect of the accommodation of minors during execution and other persons with whom a minor may be located in the execution of that sentence. Special attention is paid to the enforcement of security measures and safeguards with the obligation to monitor their enforcement by the Centre for Social Care, because in all the procedures in which the juvenile Social Care Centre is involved is actually a participant in the process and in order to protect the interests of minors. The role of the Centre for Social Care is thus strengthened and defined, and this law is in fact harmonising the implementation part related to the sanctions of minors both with the Constitution and with laws, hence the Criminal and Law on Juvenile Courts, and in particular with the UN Conventions on the Rights of the Child. This is the first reading, so I suggest that anything that can improve this text be brought out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12732	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the Committee's working bodies want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We will discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The first club is SDP representative club and respected representative Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12733	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us the Law on the execution of sanctions imposed on minors for criminal offences and offences. The enforcement of juvenile sanctions and measures is not until 2009. For years it has been regulated by a special regulation although it is a sensitive population that enjoys and special protection according to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. In order to fill that gap and to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union in the area of enforcement of juvenile sanctions and measures, the law was also adopted in 2009. We support the adoption of the law, because harmonisation, or any amendments and additions to the existing law, in order to comply with the later passed Law on Juvenile Courts and Criminal Law, is indeed shown as an optimal solution in even a third of the provisions. Taking into account this fact and the problems observed in the practice of passing a new law, it is a good proposal. What is good is that the law is fully addressed to minors, because the aim should be to make it easier for them to be involved in society after serving a sentence or an educational measure. When we see from the 2011 State's Attorney's Office report, criminal charges against minors are after years of decline in slight growth as well as against minors. As regards sanctions imposed on minors by the Youth Court Council, 1 109 decisions were taken, 958 of which were imposed on minors. It's mostly educational measures, and it's only an exceptional punishment for juvenile prison, which is only 14. Why is it important to mention this information? Because the legal framework should give the necessary balance between prevention and repression and should be imposed as necessary. I therefore stress that young people who have found themselves on the wrong side should be helped, and punishment should be an exception. The purpose of juvenile sanctions is to provide protection, care and supervision. As sanctions, minors are given punitive measures to juvenile prisons and security measures whose enforcement of the Law on Juvenile Courts and Violation Act only governs in principle. Therefore, the regulation of this area and the clear distinction of jurisdiction in the enforcement of certain sanctions certainly contribute to strengthening the entire system. Thus, in a very clear way, it is distinguished that the enforcement of educational obligations is a special obligation, a reference to a disciplinary centre, increased concern and supervision with a living room in a educational institution, a reference to a educational institution and a reference to a special educational institution in the jurisdiction of the ministry responsible for social care affairs. As long as the enforcement of the educational measure is in the Breeding Institute and the sentence of juvenile prison is in the jurisdiction of the ministry responsible for the affairs of the judiciary. The strengthening of instruments that strengthen the resocialisation of minors is certainly accompanied by the enforcement of the educational measure of increased concern and supervision, i.e. the introduction of a completely new obligation of the Centre for Social Care. Therefore, due to the effective enforcement of this training measure, the obligation of the Centre to designate a person, i.e. a leader, who will carry out a special obligation and to report once a month to the Centre for Social Care and will submit a report to the State's attorney and court every three months, on their request and more frequently. Furthermore, this law prescribes the execution of the sentence of juvenile prison by the appropriate application of the Penal Code governing the execution of a prison sentence for minors, but prescribes specialities in the enforcement of this sanction in relation to the minor population. Thus, a minor will be placed with other minors, and exceptionally with younger minors, and in any case there can be no more than 3 prisoners in the same room. The right to stay in the air to minors is 3 hours while adult prisoners are 2 hours. The minors have the right to visit family members four times a month and a holiday, unlike the adult prisoners who have this grace twice a month and a holiday. According to minors, no specific measure is allowed to maintain order and security – isolation. All in all, I support this bill guaranteeing minors the protection of the fundamental rights set out in the Constitution, and their restriction is permitted only exceptionally. In particular, it guarantees the confidentiality of data and identity, and this bill guarantees the procedure for the enforcement of juvenile sanctions and measures not to endanger their human dignity, solves it in a manner that is adapted to the person of the minor, and protects the personal and property rights and interests of minors in the jurisdiction of the Social Care Centre. Therefore, the SDP club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12734	Thank you, too, Your Honor. The next club is the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Ana Lovrin. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12735	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, at the beginning, I would say, on behalf of the HDZ Club, one compliment for a procedure that is otherwise not quite common in this session, and this is that we are passing this law in a regular procedure, so it's about first reading. I would equally like to give a positive assessment of the new law being passed, given that such a number of provisions of the existing law are amended. Thus, such a large number of amendments to the existing law are not, in all respects, essential to some change, but it is explicit, linguistic and nomotechnical harmonisation. However, since we must think about those who will apply the law, it is certainly good to establish a new legal text. Namely, to remind this Law on the enforcement of sanctions imposed on minors for criminal offences and offences was first passed as a special law in 2009 because until then there were no laws governing the enforcement of sanctions and measures imposed on minors of criminal offences and offences and specific rules and provisions of the youth courts were applied to their enforcement. However, no enforcement procedure has been established in the Law on Juvenile Courts and all necessary actions have been established to initiate the sanctions, whether criminal or criminal. As regards the Criminal Code, which prescribes criminal and legal sanctions and safeguard measures that could be given to minors, it also does not contain provisions on how to enforce them. Therefore, the need to pass this special law has been demonstrated as it concerns one particularly vulnerable population. In fact, the population at the beginning of its life course is estimated to be a population with a good approach that can still have an impact on the right path. Thus, this was also seen in the practice of courts in applying sanctions. So, even then, when considering the situation in the adoption of this law, approximately 90% of the cases were raised, and detention of juvenile prison sentences and sentences of juvenile prisons were applied very selectively because they were primarily aimed at the beauty of educational measures. It is also found that from the point of view of the educational measures given in the jurisdiction of social care. Most of them are aimed at outside the household educational measures, almost 88%, and somewhere then 12% fell to the educational measures of the institution. Of course, it is all in line with the general trend of deinstitutionalisation and use of local community resources. So we can see that according to the statistics that are then, and the indicator is unfortunately, we do not have this period of application of the law from 2009 to today. They are almost, he entered into force in 2010, almost 2 years of application. But here we see that according to statistics, it's mostly crimes committed by minors in most cases are crimes against property, so theft. And these are areas where a proper approach can be very effective. Of course, especially in minors, the success of a criminal-legal reaction to initiation depends primarily on the criminality of minors in the correct selection of the intended sanctions. Therefore, if a minor is given an educational measure that does not correspond with both his personality and the opportunities on which he lives, the purpose of punishment will not be achieved. The purpose of the punishment is, except, that is, the application of the sanction is, apart from the punishment itself, there must certainly be a resociation of the perpetrators in order to act primarily on the educational, pro futuro. Here, so I think it's good that this area has its own special law. I must say that this 2009 law is already in the exercise of juvenile sanctions, the full respect of the legal property of the European Union is respected, and the principles of the European Council documents are incorporated in it. So, in all respects, this law covered this area of compliance with Europe's legal system. Now a new law is proposed, first of all on the trail of this year's 2009. Through its application, some have been observed, some indiscretions or some insolence. This text of the law is therefore corrected in a way that clearly distinguishes competences in the field of social care and jurisdiction in the field of justice. Therefore, it is also in line with this proposal, this Law on the enforcement of sanctions imposed on minors for criminal offences and offences is aligned with the Law on Juvenile Courts, both explicitly and in substance. Some norms are omitted because they have been double-standardized in two laws, where the terms, e.g. the former name of the training centre, have been changed to the discipline center according to the Youth Court Act. Although we cannot comment now on the law that has already been passed, it seems to me that the training center is actually a more appropriate name, for it is immediately clear what it is and what it is doing. I also consider that it is very good to take measures of increased concern and supervision, that Article 35 is prescribed that the Centre for Social Care is obliged to designate a person who will carry out that educational measure, in order to clearly know who the perpetrator is following and who is responsible for the enforcement of that measure. What would be interesting if we were, if we had today in front of us, which is the enforcement of the 2009 law. Because at the time we said that a lot of beautiful things were imagined and prescribed by that law, it was just a question of whether it would be the capacity to implement them in practice. It would be good, then, to hear indicators of whether we have succeeded in predicting the 2009 law, whether it is in practice and implemented. In addition, Article 54 of the Law provides for additional improvements in respect of minors in the execution of the sentence of juvenile prison. We have often read in the media, and there have been bombing titles, but indeed inappropriate in the execution of juvenile prisons or prison sentences, so that minors are placed with perpetrators of serious crimes, with serious criminals, etc. Now it is prescribed that they must, minors must be placed with other minors and exceptionally with younger minors, and that there must be no more than 3 prisoners in one room. This is good, but given the annual reports on the state of the prison and the penitentiary, where neither the adult perpetrators nor the far-fetched conditions are respected, because there is simply no capacity and thus not only Croatia struggles over a number of years, but also many countries of Europe and the world. So the question when we prescribe some obligations, did we predict whether we have enough capacity, both spatial and material, otherwise we can boast. We have often heard in this assembly that somewhere in 2001 or when it was passed the most modern law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, the best one, was given free of charge, but of course never fully implemented what was written in that law, simply because no material assumptions were provided for it, and also these material assumptions that should be ensured, nor by far more developed European countries were able to secure. Well, then, logically, they shouldn't even be prescribed if they can't be implemented. Because then we are only subject to lawsuits and lawsuits by the European Court of Human Rights, which, of course, judge in favour of the applicant of the service, because it says that simply, the state did not respect what it had prescribed, in its law. Here I think in the first reading this should be welcomed by this alignment with the accompanying legal texts. Some improvements have been made in relation to the execution of prison sentences and educational measures for a minor, but I appeal to the fact that what is prescribed is sufficient means to implement this, and especially in relation to this, I repeat to every perpetrator of the crime and the minor, but for a minor in particular, a single programme of conduct must be drawn up which must be based on an assessment of the diagnosis of the needs and the degree of risk of minors and his social opportunities in which he lives and his/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/her/his/her/her/his/her/her/her/his/her/his/his/his/his/his/his/his/her/her/her/his/his/his/her/his/his/her/his/his/her/her/her/his/his/her/her/his/her/her/his/his/her/her/his/her/his/her/her/her/her/his/his/her/her/her/her/her/her/his/his/her/his/her/her/her/her///////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////// Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12736	Thank you, too, Your Honor. The next club is the HDSSB club and respected representative Igor Češek. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12737	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, I must say that I am truly pleased that such a bill passes through a regular legal procedure or through a first and second reading, so there is the possibility that, after a public debate in the second reading, there may also be a supplementation of some aspect of this law. Otherwise, on 29.12.2009, the Law on the enforcement of sanctions imposed on minors for criminal offences and offences entered into force. The profession was satisfied with this law because it finally regulated the way in which sanctions were imposed and protective measures and guaranteed the protection of fundamental rights established by the Statute. This bill has been improved compared to the current law. After all, it was written for compliance with the Law on Juvenile Courts as well as with the Penal Code. Violence among youths is a subject to talk about because violence among young people has recently taken hold. Statistics are devastating and black chronicles in printed media are full of articles on juvenile violence. We do not have accurate data for 2010, 2011 on delinquency but what can be read by some police administrations has announced that the increase in juvenile delinquency in Rijeka was 40% compared to 2010 and in Split by 20%. Why is this so and what can we do to prevent as much minor violence as possible? Traditionally Croatia is a country of family values and up to a few years ago the scales of values seemed completely different from now. Although most of our citizens are trying to keep that scale of value at the level it was at and at which it deserves to be. In the first place was family and respect for others, unfortunately that ladder was changed. And what exactly are the causes of that? Causes can be found in the fact that citizens do not live in quality. If the lucky ones work too hard for too little pay or don't get paid at all and don't have enough time to hang out with their children and raise their children. If among those 340, 350 thousand are unemployed then they are mostly depressed because their own children cannot properly raise and be a role model. Because what a role model it is if I can't afford a child basic living conditions and the consequence is that children are practically raised by the street. After such unfortunate fates, there is growing violence among young people who are found in cafes, bookshops, suspicious societies, or in the media. TV and the Internet are filled with violence, so-called A reality show that doesn't teach kids anything smart. Here I was just preparing this debate and I read a couple of pearls of one of our famous starlets who boasted that she was college-educated and that's where I'd be referring to her statement when she said she knew well what a mobing was if she had five cell phones. I just wanted to mention that today in the Republic of Croatia too much is used in English, values of Croatian are not respected, so I do. I don't know what cyber bulling or bulling is. I think there are Croatian words with cyber bulling and for bulling as well for mobing. But I won't speak English. So what is very important and important despite this good bill, we need to raise our children and young ones in order not to try to carry out a minor delinquency. This education should also be given by defecologists, psychologists, educators, social workers, but also by the media and family. So to avoid such minor violence, we must first raise our children and be their role model. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12738	Thank you, Your Honor. Lastly, we have exhausted the list of applicants for the debate and the final word of the esteemed Deputy Minister of Justice Ms. Sandra Artuković Kunšt. Here's your esteemed Deputy Minister of Justice, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12739	Thank you very much. Here's just one sentence. Thank you very much for the discussion and for the affirmative observation. This law is, as we have said, an implementing regulation, the correct choice of the sanction provided for is not within the scope of this law except as it prescribes and determines how sanctions will be applied. What is important is this defined distinction in the implementation of sanctions and, above all, special concerns and protection of minors just to achieve the purpose of punishment and this is an educational action. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12740	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12741	Proposal for a Law on the enforcement of sanctions imposed on minors for criminal offences and offences, first reading, PZ No. 136. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "First, the proposal for a law on the enforcement of sanctions imposed on minors for criminal offences and secondly, any objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. I find that with 121 votes for and 5 abstentions, the conclusion is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12742	We continue in line - Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of a Framework Loan Contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank for a project "Financing Water-Communal Infrastructure", with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, CZ No. 124 The Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill's proposal in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the first and second readings. You may submit amendments until the end of the debate in accordance with Article 164(4). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the authorities of the Croatian Parliament. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He's gone, I'm sorry. We're going to a debate. Do they want to take the word of the committee's rapporteurs and representatives? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. Do we now have a registered respected representative, Zoran Vinkovic, on behalf of the club or in our own? Here you go, Your Honor. On behalf of the HDSSB club, respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12743	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. It is a bit strange that this is a really important law, regardless of what it is about confirming the loan framework agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the Development Bank of the Council of Europe for the project "Financing Water-Communal Infrastructure", with the final proposal for a law that is in urgent procedure that has no proposings, so there is no government representative. In particular, during all these years, so also when harmonising all legal standards with the European Union, that is, Croatia's path to the European Union, that very few units of local self-government, so municipalities and cities have even entered certain projects to finance water-communal infrastructure, and that is mainly to think about disposal systems in municipalities, waste management systems in cities, along with purifiers. So we have one very devastating fact that all of the 600 municipalities of only 9 municipalities have entered the IPARD programme at all, and there are only a few cities, and I can boast there, among which Djakovo has entered the IPA programme. And I want to highlight here certain problems that are related precisely to the withdrawal of funds from European funds, which is what has been working all along in the Republic of Croatia, full centralisation. So, so far, the practice towards local self-government units, and I very little mention very little funds and millions of euros, is the only thing ahead of Osijek-Baranja County that has its own office in Bruxeless, very few funds have withdrawn from the pre-accession European Union funds. Therefore, among these cities is Đakovo, but I would like to point out that often the political decisions of the relevant ministries, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Croatia, have changed the order relating to the withdrawal of funds from pre-accession funds, and unfortunately if you enter as a unit of local self-government into a single programme, so there is practically an unwritten rule that you are banned from entering and that other projects from pre-accession projects are disabled, and in the future of the Structural and Cohesion Funds of the European Union. What this law will, in any case, not solve, is a matter of the very financing of water-communal infrastructure, because this is about taking credit between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank, but I would like to point out precisely the problems that are present in everyday life, but I must also point out that I hope that the Government's representative is watching the transfer of the session of the Croatian Parliament and that he will see what and as a club of the HDSB we want to warn. This is primarily, therefore, major problems that are related to the resolution of property-legal relations, it is related to the non-compliance of catastra and grantovnica, since the grantovnica extends to some units of local self-government, regardless of which a similar contract has been signed several times. It was then the World Bank for Reconstruction and Development, certain European Bank for Reconstruction and Development programmes are money spent on other projects, and we did not resolve the basic precondition for many local self-government units to enter these projects. It's a cadastre, a garland and a solution to property-legal relations. Another problem related to the financing of water-communal infrastructure is that what should be avoided in any case and the legal framework should be harmonised, that units of local self-government as holders of these projects, so the construction of a treatment system with purifiers and all other water-communal infrastructures must be exempt from the payment of the water contribution. Therefore, this amount of water contribution is even several times greater than that of the municipal contribution and normally that the local self-government unit, therefore municipalities and cities, release such infrastructure and such a building of general interest not only for its local self-government unit but also for the practical protection of the environment, so that in the name of the club we are looking for a solution by which the state, i.e. Croatian waters, will release such buildings from the payment of water contribution because it is also in Croatian waters, but also for the Republic of Croatia itself, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it is more important for the Ministry of Finance to give citizens a standard of the 21st century and not to pay something that does not really matter at this point because these projects are primarily included in the Republic of Croatia and Croatia water, and it is important to note here that this water contribution should be released. The third problem that arises here regardless of what we support, so this Framework Treaty on the raising of loans for the financing of water-communal infrastructure. Normally, this also indicates that we are indeed a poor country at any time when we have to borrow for all projects. The third problem is that in these projects, no matter how much I would say it, it even sounded pathetic to me in a project that is worth here in the area of the city of Djakova, almost 36 million euros, we must use complete European technology. So, in the development of this project in the finalisation itself is very few Croatian products, and I would dare even say that there will probably be very few Croatian construction operations, operatives and labour forces. So these are the basic three problems related to the financing of water-communal infrastructure. The fourth, in my opinion, the most important problem here is the extremely small budgets of units of local self-government that can't track these projects since we warned here a few months ago what would happen to that so-called. the tax reform of the Government of the Republic of Croatia because there is indeed a further poverty in the budget of units of local self-government which, with an annual budget of 7 or to 100 million kuna or 200 million kuna, cannot monitor such projects as are expressed in millions of euros. The last problem that is related to the signing and production of water-communal infrastructure, and we must say it openly and from this pay phone is an increase in the price of services that will go towards citizens. So these are standards and problems that are related, so for the very creation of water-communal infrastructure. The next problem that is related to the creation of water-communal infrastructure itself is lack of expertise. So, lack of waist. We have witnessed that in the past, as well as those of the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian government, they have often been appointed to a political likeness. But we would like to warn that right now in Croatian waters cleanup is being done, because they are really being replaced, I would not say party personnel but are being replaced by experts who have shown their ability for many years, practically and defended large cities from floods, and it is replacing them with, for example, a hotel director who has experience, so in leading a tourist offer in one of the most beautiful cities of Slavonia but in an extremely bad hotel. So, I'm talking about the replacement of the head of Croatian Waters in Osijek, which is being replaced by the director of the Hotel Dunav from Vukovar, so the man who doesn't have any professional skills. That's what's gonna happen in the Vinkovci, so the Beach Bosut Basin. The same thing will happen at all, so the levels where it will be replaced I would tell the experts, will primarily be replaced by similars with a party card. This is also happening, Madam Deputy Minister, in the Croatian Forests, and it is obvious that this government does not care about it, and this can happen in the state ergeli Đakovo where you will set up an exceptional expert in '48. A year that's been at the Employment Service for two years, who probably hasn't seen a horse on TV, and I believe he wasn't even at this bachelor party when the Djakovci bonds were held. So here we will support as the HDSSB club this law with all these problems. So we want the government to see these problems, and we also oppose this cleaning of experts from Croatian waters. If someone is guilty and has made certain mistakes in both Croatian waters and Croatian forests, then the Government should explain it, and not replace people with a coming or telephone session and replace them with staff who have nothing to do with the water economy except probably in the morning when shaving open taps or flushing water from the water boilers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12744	Thank you, Your Honor. So we've exhausted a list of clubs that have been reported for discussion on this subject. We're moving on to an individual debate of deputies for 10 minutes. And he is the first respected representative, Josip Boric. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12745	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. Here I personally support this Agreement on this Framework Loan with the Council of Europe Development Bank because it is one in a series of projects that the Republic of Croatia has achieved with that bank so far. The fact that we have withdrawn almost 400m euros in the past for 16 such loans of which 3 were directly to the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development for Crediting Entrepreneurs. I'm particularly fond of this one because of the utility infrastructure, i.e. water supply and drain system. We've already had loans like this and it's practically the same as everyone else. Five years starts, 15 or 20 years payoffs, something that is acceptable for the Republic of Croatia, given the interest that moves at EU level... at the time of withdrawal of the tranche i.e. payment by the bank. It is also good that this project, I say, is expected to last almost 20 years in payment so that in this situation, the Republic of Croatia allows certain maneuvers. It is also good that in 2012 we will be able to withdraw 150 million kunas because that is again to say help to this part. I looked at a little Plan of Management of Croatian Waters and now I don't understand it because this contract clearly says that these are the funds to help Croatian waters in this year 2012, but in the Management Plan there are no such funds, they are not planned. So here I see it as a single aid to the Government of Croatian Waters whose revenues fell in this financial year. And this is visible from their plan especially in the part of maintenance or infrastructure building especially on water disposal systems where we have nearly 500 million kuna investments less than last year from the water supply system 250 million less. It is certainly a problem for the local community, especially this part by the sea on the islands, in a coast that simply is here in the season now in this peak load they are looking for and having problems. And yet I say we're in charge as a state of care about the state of the sea and the state of the environment. I especially like this story from the history of one project that's so-called. CEB IV called building of municipal and social infrastructure facilities on Croatian islands. It was a multi-sectoral loan of 386 million kuna, which was practically a turning point in relation to the Croatian islands where we built or renovated or renovated almost 100 objects in the past 8 years. Of these 50 of them in water supply and disposal systems, we have raised the issue of water protection, especially in Croatian islands. I hope that these, too, says here that this is for the wider community, means the wider environment, that it means it is possible to use Croatian islands too, so that it does not happen to us that certain loans and predicted that they refer only to the continental part or to certain specific areas only, but mostly these islands were left without being able to participate with these funds, and I know that the wish has always been the Council of Europe's development banks and their technical committees to finance the completion of all projects. So, I know that we personally say in these systems we have done some phases and many have remained unfinished. I'm asking, that's what you'll hope to tell us later in your address, is it possible for these funds to be used to complete and whether these projects will have the opportunity or priority over everyone else in order to create a reality of meaning and the functionality of the projects that didn't end up. I say, through our 2004 CEB IV loan, we have really achieved a lot in the field of education where we have managed to restore all the schools in all the small islands of Sibenik and Zadar County, Dubrovnik-Neretva and Primorje-Gorski, where we have managed to restore all the hospitals and to rehabilitate or build homes for social care. I'm saying, what I'm particularly interested in is that we have 20 years to say, but here it says that with 31.12.2016, we're going to end this loan. We had a much smaller loan, so 386 million kuna and it lasted for a full 8 years and it will only end in 2013, we asked for one extension and the other because it is really about no means, but also a very demanding institution that does not allow projects to be run the wrong way i.e. not to be seen the effects of these projects. I wonder if Croatian waters, is the Ministry of Agriculture really ready for such an engagement in view of everything else? I see this is heading towards the Agricultural Payments Agency, that there will be one part that we already have so far in engagement and certain payments of subsidies and everything else. Are we ready to carry out technically means all of what the loan requires of us, and I think it's pretty simple in this contract because we all had to have projects in advance to get a loan? There are no projects here, we don't see them, we don't know who they're going to refer to. Whether it will then be released only tell certain individuals, politics to determine which cities, municipalities that deserve that help or not. That's why I say I have certain skeptics in this way, but I say I support it because I believe this is part of this investment cycle that's constantly being announced, and the funds are very favourable and in some ways the state doesn't cost anything for at least the next five years. Here, so much for me, I'd like to hear from the deputy, which is really in this project a word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12746	Thank you very much. We have a single replica on your display and it's from a respected representative, Anne Lovrin. Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12747	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague, Boric, agreed that spending the funds we are in debt should be transparent and that the funds should have been planned in order to see when they are obtained and to whom they will go not to be ad hoc decisions made to whom and how, but says the people have one saying good, says not every evil for evil. Well, then maybe it's not so bad that the 150 million that would withdraw in 2012 is not in that plan because then we can hope that this money will be aimed at covering the cost of water supply for the islands. We know, and there has been talk in the public as well, and there has been a promise in the ministry that those funds in the 2012 budget will be cut down for this purpose, so now we have a situation where the islands are waterless, and there is no money in the state budget to subsidise transport to the islands. And maybe the public doesn't know that, but the water on the islands that's being driven by the plumbers, so at the price of the water from the city, the coastal waters only have people who have a place on the island. All other people pay for this water at the full price of water plus the full cost of transportation to the island. So, the fact that the state subsidized, subsidized only to the indigenous population. And for that purpose in the budget, the money ran out. And it ran out because it was cut in the budget, when the budget was made, and it was known by then that these funds would not be enough because they were exceeded in 2011. Well, that's why I think that's why I said not everyone's evil for evil and I appeal, because it's said from the government and the ministry that they're going to come up with the means, so here's what they might be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12748	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica, dear Joseph Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12749	Well, here I think this loan may not be touching this problem of water supplying Croatian small islands. From what I've heard from the minister, the last time he was in Parliament, that's a matter solved. Although I say that would be disputed because the fact is that by law, the municipal economy is the duty of cities and municipalities to provide their residents with water. The state has been helping and helping, and I think there's a happy solution here, and it's going to work. However, I am troubled here more, I say through this water management plan it is evident that the regional water lines, which have started, which have largely been built, through this management plan for 2012 from Slavonia to Dalmatia, have remained minimally. On minimum means because there's obviously not enough of them. And I wonder how we're going to finish these big investments, where only in the Zadar hinterland, we have a few dozen thousand houses that need to be supplied with water, that haven't had it in hundreds of years. And I'm saying, the plan for managing Croatian waters predicts, here's as far as I can see here as only one million kunas, investments in such a single water line. Regardless of all the agreements we have signed so far and on behalf of the state, I say take over as obligations. For this reason, I hope that this loan may also help at least in part of it, that these funds are found and that these objects are in the final stage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12750	Thank you, too. And at the end of the debate, respected Deputy Minister of Agriculture Mrs. Spanish Snježana. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12751	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and MPs. I'm going to elaborate on your questions in a short time, and I hope I don't skip anything. In fact, this loan is an additional investment that will follow the management plan. So the management plan for your budget and everything related to the EIB and the CEB is plus. 150 million euros is plus. Thus, additional loans estimate investment in the water economy up to 2.5 billion kuna in 2012 by the end of 2013. Because as you pointed out yourself, some projects are extremely large and cannot be realised in 2012. It is an exceptional honor and pleasure to say that, despite the very negative financial climate, we have agreed to an agreement with the banks on such a favourable loan for CEB together with the EIB that is 150m euros in additional investment, with already approved funds. The government's decision on additional water loans, investment in the water economy with the EBRD and with Erste Bank are also in the process, so we will reach 2.5 billion kuna. As regards the completion of the projects, projects related to Adriatic I, Adriatic II and Adriatic III were financed through the IBRD. Unfortunately, some projects have not yet been realised today, for various reasons, from the problems of changing spatial plans, from the problems of non-temporary service rights. As far as the ministry is concerned, we will speed up procedures, remove administrative burdens and try to resolve that part, and that is possible sooner. What is further indicated as a problem is a weak realization. Honestly, it is similar to EU funds, where there are desires, there are desires, but I think that one of you here is respected representatives, stressed technical readiness, an insufficient number of people in the local environment who could follow such large projects. That's why they're preparing together after these government decisions are taken, which I assume will be next week. Lists will be made for the first time of projects to show what the funds are intended for, which has not been the case so far. It will be published on the Croatian Waters and Ministry pages, which will show exactly which funds, how and how individual projects will be financed. It happened that the projects simply blocked the funding, and there was no realisation. So those who were able to realize something simply couldn't get the money, so to speak, a rather strange situation. We have analyzed this in Croatian waters, at the Ministry of Agriculture of Water Management and will make it the maximum possible to increase the realization. The projects were even in phase, neither the construction permits, nor the location permits, but they were, I'm not talking about everyone but some, they were wish lists. We're trying to bring this to a level of realization now, and we're going to take advantage of all the possibilities for that to happen. About the islands, related to the Zadar hinterland, of course through the EBRD and other ministries. Let me just say, inside the various ministries there were different loans, there was no coordination, we now insisted along with the Ministry of Regional Development, together with the Ministry of Agriculture and other institutions. We are coordinating the EIB 1, EIB 2, and I find opportunities from which resources could be financed which projects, if one project did not happen to be reported to several ministries, and there simply is no realisation. We're working on coordination, and we're very happy here. The same strategic document is being prepared, where you will see exactly what options are also related to IPARD, where there is a measure of investment in rural infrastructure within IPARD, and there may also be a withdrawal of significant funds. As far as experts and employment are concerned, here's what I'm gonna say in the end. Unfortunately, in front of the Ministry of Agriculture, I must say that we have received a report from the State Audit Office and that there is almost no institution in which there were very no suspicious business and irregularities in financial operations. As far as investigations are concerned, we cannot go public until the investigation is complete. So the respected Mr. Parliamentarian Vinkovic and the Croatian Forests were inscriptions and the Croatian Waters were inscriptions on other institutions, so that given the irregularities that we have identified as the responsible Ministry of Agriculture we must take on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12752	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We've got two credentials reported. First is the respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12753	Thank you very much. So I am correcting the incorrect allegations that there has been no coordination so far, which would have turned out that the various authorities of the state administration and the Ministry and Croatian Water as a public enterprise had not cooperated. It is true that there was co-ordination that between ministries and regional development and agriculture, and the Ministry of the Sea of the former and Croatian waters signed each other's annual agreements where funds were pooled and thus invested investments. So there would have been no such agreement if there had been no such respect and signing of those agreements.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12754	Thank you very much. The next correction of the incorrect allegations is the esteemed representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12755	First of all, I believe that you should have given me the word to speak on behalf of the club and that final word, so I believe that the deputy minister would have responded to what she was probably reasonably late for this agenda point, and above all, that is also important in taking these loans, and she was also talking about how certain projects went. And let yourself think that this point without a no-proposer has begun rather strangely. Well, here's what I'm gonna do. I'm just gonna use that one to get these problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12756	Your Honor, correct the incorrect allegations because you signed up for it. And as for asking for the final word of five minutes, you should have applied in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. I read your mime and gesticulation... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12757	I raised my hand before the deputy minister came out on behalf of the government's promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12758	I'm sorry, Your Honor, I'm just gonna say a little bit more. You are not the first time in the Croatian Parliament to know that you are applying for a desk with a registration card, and raising your hand can mean that you are looking for a break, that you are not well, that you want to stop something. I can't read what you think, nor do I want to read what you think.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12759	I even said it out loud, but aside from not being good. Therefore, these are property-legal relations, without the existence of geodetic cadastrian measurements, although money has been spent, the small budget of the local self-government unit, will finally affect the price increases of services to citizens and the current form of centralisation according to the projects of the pre-accession Union. And I'm correcting now allow me an incorrect quote, I don't care where the investigations are in the Croatian forests or Croatian waters, but the fact is that experts are replaced by similar ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12760	Thank you very much. That concludes the debate on the text of the law. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12761	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Framework Loan Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Development Bank of the Council of Europe for the financing project of water-communal infrastructure, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 124, the debate is closed. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Score. I find that, unanimously with 130 votes, the law has been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12762	Now we move on to the next item of the agenda. This is: - Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose stay is illegal, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, CZ No. 135 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill of law into the boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 164(4). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. Would the Government Proposer's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Not if you want respect. Here you are, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. Deputy Minister Evelyn Tonkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12763	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, honourable representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The Republic of Croatia and the Federal Republic of Germany confirmed their interest in the conclusion of a new more modern bilateral international contract on the surrender and acceptance of persons who are staying illegal. In a suitable manner, the subject agreement shall regulate the issue of surrender and acceptance of persons who are illegally staying in the territory of the other Contracting Party and transit of persons in accordance with the general standards of international law. The agreement was signed in Brussels on 8 March 2012 by the Minister of the Interior of the Republic of Germany, Mr Ranko Ostojic, and Federal Minister of Interior Hans Peter Friedrich, for the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany. The Act certifying the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Germany and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on surrender, the acceptance of a person who is staying an illegal agreement, is hereby confirmed in order to make his provision within the meaning of Article 141(1). The Republic of Croatia entered into force and became part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12764	Thank you very much. Do the workers' committee rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the voting conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12765	Final draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany on the surrender and acceptance of persons whose stay is illegal, emergency procedure, first and second reading, CZ No. 135, the debate is closed. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. I find that the law has been passed with 130 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12766	We're going to the next item on the agenda. This is: - Proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on mutual assistance in the event of disasters and major accidents, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 137 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill of law into the boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 164(4). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. Would the Government Proposer's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Deputy Minister of the Interior Mr Evelyn Tonkovic. Here you go, deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12767	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, honourable representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on mutual assistance in the event of disasters and major accidents signed in Dubrovnik on 7 October 2011 is the result of a common desire to further promote and deepen joint cooperation and mutual assistance in disasters. The agreement addresses issues of mutual assistance in disasters in the territory of one of the Contracting Parties, conditions of cooperation in disaster prevention, cooperation in the areas of mutual information on threatening disasters, disasters and their consequences, cooperation in the field of education and training in the protection, rescue and provision of assistance, and exchange of scientific and technical information relevant for the protection of disasters. The Law confirms the agreement in question in order to make its provisions within the meaning of Article 141(1). The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia came into force and became part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12768	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the board, the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12769	Final draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on mutual assistance in case of disasters and major accidents, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 137, the debate is closed. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. I find the law passed unanimously with 132 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12770	We have to work, so we're going to the next item on the agenda. It is - Proposal for a Law on Financial Business and Pre-bank settlement, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 138; Proposer of law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the bill by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law, Articles 144 to 150. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Does the Government's representative, the Proposer, want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Finance Mr Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12771	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. Concerning about the overall liquidity in the Croatian economy, the legal uncertainty of creditors and investors with regard to the collection of their claims, the length of bankruptcy procedures, low capitalisation, i.e. the poor financial structure of companies with a high share of interest leads to financial burdens and a low investment base of companies, which is a fundamental problem in achieving economic growth and new employment. ... The data on liquidity since the end of 2008 were 18.5 billion kuna in 2009 at the end of 17.1 billion kuna, end 2010. 35.8 billion kuna, end of 2011. The 41.7 billion kuna and the latest data preliminary with the 6th month of 2012 are 43.9 billion kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So 600 million kunas less than the last time we announced the state of May 31st where there were about 44.5 billion kunas. These data show that only over 23 billion kunas increased in a 4-year period. The number of insolvency business entities from 2008 to today has increased from 52,000 to more than 74 thousand insolvency business entities. The problem of liquidity is even more worrying if its structure is looked at because the amount of unexploited payment bases for more than a year is more than 36 billion kuna or over 80% of total blockades, which raises the question of its profitability, i.e. consolidation through a new regulatory one. High liquidity failed to resolve bankruptcy procedures because according to data available at the moment 89 bankruptcy procedures in the Republic of Croatia last longer than 10 years, 166 procedures last longer than 5 years, and 287 lasts longer than 3 years. According to the World Bank study – Doing business – in the category of speed and ease of implementation of the bankruptcy procedure Croatia takes an infamous 94th place out of 183 countries, where Albania is 64th, Hungary 66th, Slovakia 35th. Croatia is worse than the average of Eastern Europe and Central Asia countries. The study says we only charge about 30% of our claims. Also, one of the problems of entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia is the low capitalisation of the same, which certainly affects the financial instability of the real sector and represents a significant limit for further investment, growth and employment. The capitalisation of Croatian companies in the past 10 years has dropped from 56% in 2001 to only 34% in 2011. The poor financial structure is seen in increasing credit debt to banks. The aggregated increase was from 208 billion to 223. So, credit debts have increased with banks by 15 billion kuna or around 2 billion euros, there has been an increase in interest costs since 2010 from 15.3 billion kuna to 16 billion kuna for the amount of Croatian entrepreneurs paid interest in 2011. This leads to smaller investments falling from 2010 to 2011 from €37.3 billion to €32.9 billion in 2011. These data relate to the aggregated balance sheet of those entrepreneurs who submitted the Annual Financial Report for 2011, i.e. 98 000 and 530. All of these above liquidity problems, over-indebtedness, low capitalisation, financial burdens on interest, disinvestment point to a difficult situation in the Croatian economy and constitute the main reasons for the proposal of the new Financial Business Act and the pre-profit settlement. As the main objectives to achieve this law are to enable entrepreneurs to restructure liquidity and insolvency, to increase capitalisation by converting demand into a share of capital, to reduce the financial burden of interest, to strengthen businesses for new investment cycles, to increase the value of the debtor's assets, to acquire assets of the debtor regularly sold below the real price, to increase the level of responsibility of administration towards creditors, to preserve jobs, to ensure equal treatment of creditors in the same position towards the debtor. Then, avoiding long-term and expensive court proceedings and through an administrative procedure that is faster and more cost-effective started on the initiative of debtors without distortion and termination of business. The main feature of the new law is that the pre-departure procedure is conducted through an administrative procedure which is controlled and supervised by the settlement council and has a deadline for the execution of 120 days. It is solely based on the voluntary will of the debtors and creditors who adopt the new restructuring financial plan within the deadlines set with the opinion of the auditors and the control of the Commissioners of the settlement. The measures provided for in the Financial Plan for restructuring would include a reduction or delay of the due debt obligations, a capital increase in underlying capital, a payment in wars, a change in maturity periods, interest rates or other credit conditions, loans or other claims or instruments of insurance, a cashing or transfer of assets in order to settle demand, a discharge of debt, a write-off of interest, a change in interest rates, an execution of changes or a waiver of the right to grant additional funds by the debtor or third parties, including the provision of guarantees or guarantees. Turning trustees into capital, connecting entrepreneurship contracts with a strategic partner for the sustainability of business creation, and recapitalisation by strategic partners. In particular, the law sets out payment deadlines between entrepreneurs, and between entrepreneurs and public rights persons. A contract between entrepreneurs may set a period of up to 60 days, and if a contract between entrepreneurs does not set a deadline for the fulfilment of monetary obligations, the debtor shall be obliged without the need for the creditor to invite him to fulfil the monetary obligation within 30 days. Exceptionally, a longer period may be agreed to fulfil the cash obligation in the case of a commercial credit, provided that the debtor is in a monetary obligation, that the debtor has issued a cash liability to the creditor, and the means of insurance of the demand that has the effect of the executive instrument, which in no way may be longer than 360 days. The contract between entrepreneurs and public-law persons in which a public-law person is a debtor of a monetary obligation may set a deadline for the fulfilment of a monetary obligation for up to 30 days. Exceptionally, a longer period may be agreed to fulfil the monetary obligation, but no longer than 60 days. The application of that Regulation and the amendment shall mean the application of that regulatory requirement and the modification of other regulations, such as the bankruptcy law, in which the reshuffle provision is to be deleted. The Act on the acquisition of shares based on the acquisition of shares in the pre-demand settlement procedure does not create an obligation to take over the company. By law, we need to amend the Credit Institutions Act where the preconditions for limiting bank investment are changed. Moreover, the Act on Commercial Companies where the obligation of the Administration to launch a pre-demand settlement is to be imposed, and the Law on the time limits for the fulfilment of the monetary obligations to be imposed, since the deadlines for commitments are defined in this Act. One of the problems, monitoring the liquidity and business of the overall economy, is a large number of financial reports that are not submitted to the financial agency, although there is a legal obligation. There are already some steps that should definitely be accelerated and controlled. A list of, now look out for 37 803 entrepreneurs who have not submitted annual financial reports in a row from 2008 to 2010, or 3 years in a row, and have been subject to official clearance procedures. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on the court register. Of the total list created, it means 37,803 entrepreneurs, 24,248 entrepreneurs have no unexplored basis for payment, while 13,555 entrepreneurs have a total blockade of 8.6 billion kuna. Now I have tried ultimately to sum up the steps, in which way we would try to solve the accumulated problems of indifference, which I have said how they create problems in the economy. First, it means deleting from the registers of those entrepreneurs who have not submitted the annual financial report for the last 3 years and have not been blocked. Secondly, the removal from the register of those entrepreneurs who have not submitted an annual financial report in the last 3 years, and have been blocked in the total amount of 8.6 billion kuna. Third, a list was created, on 31.05.2012, of 26 650 legal persons who have no employees and have been blocked for more than 60 days, by a total blockade of 19.8 billion kuna. In other words, they meet the conditions for a shortened bankruptcy procedure. Since the financial agency is leading an eyewitness to the order of execution, we will propose that FINA submit applications to the competent trade courts for the launch of reduced bankruptcy proceedings with the exemption from the obligation to pay court fees. Since those for whom the court lays down criteria for the shortened bankruptcy procedure are to be decided on the opening and closing of proceedings, the FINA shall then register their bases and return them to the executives. For about 9 650 legal entities, which have been blocked for more than 60 days, which have 30 198 employees and not made commitments, of 14.9 million kuna, consolidation will be attempted through new legislation. Also, the same will try to be done for those companies, which employ 13 000 workers and are in short-term blockade, means up to 60 days worth 2.1 billion kuna. Dear gentlemen, you can see parliamentary representatives, given this information that I've presented from 37 800 entrepreneurs who need to make a request to delete from the register. What kind of business is in front of us? So we tried to select them in the way that we try to introduce discipline and who registers the annual financial reports and the code, means through shortened bankruptcy procedures, actually try to wipe out, or close down bankruptcy for those companies that don't have employees. But unfortunately, this alarming data that speaks of a large number of non-equitable companies that have no employees and have no property. We are going back to that question of the General Tax Law and the breach of legal personality. And the question arises, how could this kind of debt happen, and now you see a whole story that we're trying to round up with this general tax law and this resolution of indivisibility. That it's a mosaic cube, and it means that they have to intertwine in order to solve it, so that they can solve this indifference problem. So, by this law, we know that it is a new practice that we introduce to the Croatian market. We tried to apply best practice both from the Slovenian law and from the American laws. I know that, that she's been public enough, let's just say screams, that this is anti-entrepreneurial law. However, we must have some mechanisms, we must be responsible, we must try to introduce order, or actually see, what are these companies that operate in the state by law and give them a breath, in fact that they can operate normally and that they can be competitive, and especially when Croatia enters the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12772	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. Do the rapporteurs of Parliament's working bodies want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The debate begins with clubs in the Croatian Parliament. The first club is the SDP club and Drazenko Pandek, a respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12773	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Minister with an associate, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Introductoryly, I would point out that the SDP club supports the proposal of the Financial Business Act and... Indeed, the current situation, in terms of the conduct of bankruptcy proceedings, indicates the need for a more effective and effective legal framework to address the problem of accumulated indifference. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As already stated in 2011, there were over 70,000 legal persons with blocked accounts, and even more than 55,000 business entities were blocked for more than 360 days. Individibility thus reached a record of 5.3 billion euros and every day nearly 50 entrepreneurs went into a blockade. On the other hand, the inflow of bankruptcy cases according to the High Court of Commerce data was not even close to those figures. These facts indicate that the system of bankruptcy measures prescribed by the bankruptcy law aimed at, among other things, at least partial collection of the credentials' claims and the removal from the economic life of those business entities who, due to over-indebtedness or inability to pay, cannot operate or re-establish them for the purpose of continuing business, does not function in the manner that the adoption of the bankruptcy law was intended. These figures point to the fact that the administrations of the company did not respect the provision of a bankruptcy law requiring the opening of a bankruptcy procedure within 21 days of the creation of the insolvency payment in which the conditions were created so I would say the insolvency infection continues to spread in the economic system to these record figures. The figure also points to passive behaviours of creditors who, before and after the bankruptcy proceedings, have not shown enough initiative to quickly make key decisions that would lead to a faster resolution of the insolvency situation. And in cases where bankruptcy was launched, it was observed that a large number of bankruptcy proceedings took an extremely long time to be seen in relevant international studies and the bankruptcy procedure that was launched on average resulted in only 30% of the credentials being sought by the deputy minister. Furthermore, the continuation of business after bankruptcy was rather an exception than a rule. The bankruptcy generally meant the termination of the business of society, the shut-down of activities and the lay-off of workers. I think that we can all agree on the social need for as many business entities as possible to be able to overcome the difficulties caused by the current problems in the business caused by the crisis or perhaps by a business policy that has proved to be wrong and the very core of businesses itself is still healthy and allows for the proper restructuring of the continuation of business. We therefore welcome the measures which will allow this law to proceed faster and more effectively on the initiative of the debtors and ultimately which will allow entrepreneurs to continue their business. We believe that this complex system of opening up the pre-price settlement procedures will significantly contribute to addressing the problem of insolvency and insolvency, and will encourage greater caution from the responsible persons of entrepreneurs in preventing such a situation that would lead to company indifference and even greater involvement of creditors in order to address such situations. Including including inclusion in the ownership structure of company debtors, which so far has also been a rare case, we have had cases that from the state as a shareholder of shares or shares to be included in the ownership structure and such engagement at the level of eligible persons that the creditors had failed. This will be as we consider to be achieved in the first order... the sanctions therefore provided for here in the event of the failure to take mandatory actions by debtors prescribed by this proposal but also by the short prescribed deadlines for the conduct of both parties and the competent authorities. No less important, we believe that in the pre-demand settlement procedures, workers' rights will be significantly more protected than they have been in bankruptcy proceedings so far. We therefore particularly welcome the provision of Article 15, which is described as being considered inequitable if more than 30 days are late with the payment of salaries for workers as well as the payment of the corresponding taxes and contributions. Although we can expect significant remarks on this provision, we believe that it should certainly be kept because workers do not participate in the profits of the company, workers' salaries are the cost of doing business, I would say, with a human face. And the introduction of this provision significantly in our opinion strengthens the position of workers in relation to the situation so far and especially the practice of bankruptcy. In the act relating to the fulfilment of monetary obligations, this proposal for a law constitutes an upgrade to the Law on the deadlines for the fulfilment of monetary obligations, which makes it part of the provision of special compensation for the costs incurred by the debtor by the delay in fulfilling the monetary obligation, and of allowing the withdrawal of the claim to determine the integrity of the contract between entrepreneurs, therefore, both chambers and interest associations of entrepreneurs and legal persons engaged in the protection of the collective interests of creditors and monetary liabilities. These provisions are true for harmonisation with the EU acquis but we are confident that it will contribute to preventing the use of a more favourable position by the stronger party in a contractual relationship. So it is obvious that in the EU, and not only in our country, there is a strong need to protect the weaker contracting party, the small supplier who, for example, supplies certain goods and services to large corporations and which is in a significantly more unfavourable position than that of a large corporation operating with another such corporation. It is obvious that these proposed laws will allow for greater protection of such smaller parties in a contractual relationship. I repeat, therefore, the SDP supports the adoption of this law. He thinks he's well thought out and structured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12774	Thank you, Your Honor. Next is the club HSU and respected representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12775	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister with an assistant, a colleague and a colleague. The HSU Club certainly welcomes the proposal of this Financial Business Act and the pre-departure settlement, and we must argue that human beings are the best-quality kind of mind because if only they had something like this there in 2000 and perhaps even before, one part of the economic operators would retain their economic activity and not be sold out in bankruptcy. In fact, by 1991, as long as bankruptcy was being conducted in the former state, we had bankruptcys that were exclusively aimed at saving a creditor, meaning saving production, saving activities or keeping jobs. By reorientating to the market economy, we have completely reversed the system, so we have given protection not to those who work but to those who lend money to work. So we have completely turned our attention and we have protected virtually those who have a stronger position in relation to the debtor-religious or labour and the financial sector. In essence, we should have had the legislative framework that evened those two positions did not favour one or the other structure. I'm sure the days Istra would probably be big-traded in Pula, that Pazinka would still work not likely with 1700, not likely with 700 employees, but a few hundred employees would still work there. I'm sure the claims could have turned very much into ownership stakes in Laguna commerciale in Poreč, not that the owner and director committed suicide and then got there, Konzum. So, a lack of this law, believe me, has caused some human fates that aren't very bright. I have called on the instrument of pre-profit settlements for nine years since I was in the Croatian Parliament and not any pre-profit settlements, but I call on the instrument of compulsory pre-profit settlements, not because Slovenians have it, but because it has proved to be an effective mechanism for protection of the debtor, protection of jobs and preservation of activities. This is no ordinary law, it's called the Financial Business Bill Proposal and Pre-bank settlement, but it's actually a mini bankruptcy law. So much more operational than it is to conduct bankruptcy proceedings in front of a commercial court because it directs, here some cards are still missing, something missing, I'll talk about it later, but it allows for the sale of assets of a creditor which was usually a dominant solution in the conduct of bankruptcy proceedings so far. Therefore, the creditors were exclusively focused on the settlement of their claims through the sale of assets of a creditor. For them, for human destiny, jobs didn't hurt a lot so far. It's a very heartless system. What we're bringing now, therefore, is a pre-demand settlement, regardless of what it is at this point voluntary, but that position is still being fixed, giving us a new opportunity to save a default debtor because we are now faced with a position that is so difficult to open a job. It makes sense, then, that as a society, we focus on every job we can save. Of course, it can't work on the system with one measure, in a straight line. It's all a system of closed circuits, it all has to be a closed circle. Look, there's a principle of volunteering for a pre-determined settlement here. She's not in herself too motivated. If something else were to be done in bankruptcy laws, but if someone had entered into changes and complemented the bankruptcy law, that one who avoids a pre-demand settlement and is solely motivated to cash his claims through the sale of assets, that he would lose payment orders, that he would lose the status of a different believer, a mortgage believer, a fiduciary believer, so all these mechanisms that give him priority over others, that in case he would not use a pre-demand settlement that is objective, real, open offer to save a creditor, that he would then lose his priorities in charge. You lawyers who are here in the House, look at how much this is possible, but I think it's possible because we're motivated by only one, and that's a benefit to our citizens, or to keep our jobs. I'm saying if it could be installed, I'm sure this would be far more effective than it is right now. We won't achieve anything with some penalties, if someone misses something, but you know when someone's interest is threatened because that bank has some rules of play, and that financial institution has some game rules, and when someone tells them you can lose a little because if you insist, because your risk is also that you borrowed money from that and that activity, so you had to see in time whether it can be returned or not, if you're not willing to lose a little bit of money, you're not going to charge everything at the expense of losing your job and liquidating a creditor. So I think that in this sense we should close the circle to come up with a whole, and always giving priority to what is more politically important. For us at this point and it was always just that we ignored it, it was always more politically important to keep the jobs and keep the activities, if we think long-term. However, I allow laws to be passed here under the influence of all kinds of policies, therefore it is time behind us, but it is time to turn around. I repeat, it is good that although this law bears the label of the PZE, thus harmonising with the acquis, it is good that the exception is made that it is in the first reading, that indeed one more look at which all the laws governing this area can be networked with one single goal to save as many bankruptcy debtors as possible because of the state's budget and local budgets, of these jobs, and to help them, and not only to go in favour of the one who gives money for production on very rigorous criteria, i.e. multiple insurance for money, and no insurance for people. Therefore, I would like to welcome in front of HSU this law, this kind of attempt, and I hope that by the second reading it will be networked with other laws, primarily with the bankruptcy law governing this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12776	Thank you very much. On behalf of the club Croatian Labourist-Stranka Rada Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12777	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. The aim of this law is to make bankruptcy proceedings in Croatia the way the world knows them. Namely, the word bankruptcy is neither exasperated nor a terrible word in Western democracies, bankruptcy happens all the time. The bankruptcy means changing the ownership structure, so someone else has taken over the company, but the company continues to operate. We've had our bankruptcys mostly liquidated so far. When the bankruptcy was something other than the case with Pevec, for example where the bankruptcy manager... You managed to make this out of bankruptcy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He doesn't need a pre-determined settlement, because he's been bankrupt so that bankruptcy should be conducted. Then that bankruptcy is an attraction. All Croatian newspapers wrote about it as an attraction. Look, imagine the bankruptcy, and the company didn't fail, so it didn't fail because the man normally arranged the bankruptcy. In the 1990s, there was a bankruptcy strategy that worked in this country for 20 and a few years. The recipe is simple, it has a few stages. The first stage is to take the Kuna company to two corners of political power, based on force, physical forces sometimes based on fraud, the foundation of thieving. The second phase sucks out the trade capital. A company that has trade capital, so you can't lead it to bankruptcy. So suck it out, suck it out with fake contracts, suck it out with jobs that are by definition clear that it leads to ruin and so forth. When the company no longer has bankruptcy capital, it is mature for further proceedings. The next step is the stock sale. I remember a company in Karlovac, DIP Karlovac, when you enter the Karlovac faster road on the left was there today, the shopping chains are a huge stake warehouse, a kilometer of log from a mile away. A gentleman on the run, Gucic took over the company just like this for the kuna. Those stakes were planned within the time limit. In a week, no more bets. In stock, so we sold out the supplies. They also sell out what little finished products they were. After that, the next phase is a debt of real estate, a loan for anything that you will naturally withdraw to some of your private accounts, so you can mortgage the property. After that, the situation is clear. You're insolvent, you're insolvent, you're in debt, you're in bankruptcy. The bankruptcy means the sale in that case. First, these properties that are in charge are sold out, and then the machines go on a remont or get lost. At the end of the ballad, office furniture, wall paintings, carpets, etc. is sold. The only thing that stays in that company is the workers. They stay. The company's shutting down and they're on the road. That's exactly how 1200 people ended up on the road. What's going on as the last phase? The same presence is well seen throughout Croatia. It's where malls are built. It starts with Konzum, then Mercator, then Bill, who already are. And today in Karlovac on the left side of the fast road you can see a 6.7 piece in the place where there was this and another factory. Well, I guess that's over now. That kind of bankruptcy is probably not going to happen anymore. This law is actually a good piece of bankruptcy law, that positive piece of the bankruptcy law, and so the bankruptcy law should look regardless now in for one solution that may be better formulated, another that may be inconclusive. It's all to be fixed. But the basic idea is, let's never do this kind of bankruptcy again. This Regulation shall enter I don't know if I get it right. It seems to me that Article 18 states that a pre-demand settlement is mandatory in a situation where liquidity and insolvency are not established. Within 30 days it is necessary to initiate the pre-demand settlement procedure. If it's mandatory it's a good thing it's mandatory, because the optional situation we've actually had right now. No one had to go into liquidation, had to go into bankruptcy if he was able to convince the believers to take over his company, so the debts turned into equity. If it's an obligation to proceed with this procedure now, then it's a good thing and it could give, I think it's a smart result. Article 26 speaks about where these pre-determined settlements are conducted and say that if the amount concerned is more than 5 million kuna, the regional centre of Zagreb is the only one in charge. I don't know if that's a good solution. So companies are most often and these obligations are most often more than 5 million kunas. I don't know why to do extra expenses to someone from Dubrovnik or Split. There's no money anyway, he's in a jam anyway. Why do not we do an additional cost for him, why not exist in Croatia let's say at least 4 such regional centres, for example Split, Rijeka, Zagreb and Osijek, so that regional Croatia is divided so that people don't have to travel if it's more than five million kunas across the country. Article 34 states that in paragraph 4, FINA is obliged to submit a proposal for the opening of a bankruptcy procedure if this pre-demand settlement is suspended. And there are reasons for opening the bankruptcy proceedings. All right, let FINA do that, and what with the obligation of the present management obligation and the bankruptcy law under the threat of criminal responsibility was required to launch bankruptcy. They didn't do it, some were reported, some weren't. Some of them were responsible for it, some of them weren't. What about their responsibility now? Whether or not it is downloaded by the fact that FINA assumes that obligation. Another interesting point in Article 78 discusses the revision of the search at the beginning of the procedure. A breakthrough is a useful instrument. In 2000, if you remember, the finance minister prescribed a general breakthrough in Croatia. In this way, indifference reduced by a significant percentage and brought things to normal functioning within a few months, 6, 7, 8 months. I don't know why the Ministry of Finance today is not bound by this law, why the Ministry of Finance can't think about such a procedure today. I think he'd be useful. At the very least, it would be helpful to see who is obliged to see the beginning, to see who started the indifference chain, and then focus attention on it. Because most of these people in the chain aren't guilty. They flew in, but someone's at the beginning of that chain, and a disguise could establish that. It's too bad there's no time to think about it as an instrument actually reducing indifference. And all these repressive measures you have to pay in 30 days, you have to pay in 60 days to get them past the dirty water in the sewers and a good number of kids you know, a good number of those who aren't guilty of the situation. And maybe you could save them. And as the Deputy Minister said, every job is important to us and we can't afford to behave differently today. All in all, the Croatian Labour Club thinks this is a useful law, which I hope will improve by the second reading. And that's actually what we need from the executive law and why we're interested. This law, this law, seems to me to defend those we talked about yesterday night, defend those who are in debt and who we are actually obliged to take care of. It's our job. And less of those who profit from these cloudy situations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12778	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDSSB club Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12779	Mr. Vice President, Deputy Director of the IRS. The HDSSB club will support this, as someone has said, a small bankruptcy law, but it really requires this to be a mandatory pre-demand settlement in order to really reduce even though the very intensity of the law is to set up a mandatory pre-demand settlement, but I believe that this should be contained in any case. Indeed, if the main objectives of this law are to enable entrepreneurs to be restructured financially, to increase the level of responsibility of the company's management towards creditors, to increase the value of the debtor's assets, to reduce the share of the loan by converting the demand into capital, to preserve jobs, to ensure equal treatment of creditors in the same position as the debtor, to make the administrative procedure faster, more efficient, to reduce costs, to secure the existing rights of creditors and to establish clear rules for determining the order of payment of the claim in any case, we believe that this law should be supported. But also in the practice of the bankruptcy process itself, and we are witnessing that in a whole series of bankruptcy proceedings that led the workers were not in the first payment order but ended up on the street, on a road without any property in the company, in a company with lost shares, failed shares where the entire families ended up on the street, where they practically lost all their private property, so as company workers to survive after losing their jobs should certainly just be in that and the law defined the first payment order. And we now believe that this binding form enables workers to do so, and not just as it has been in most bankruptcy proceedings where banks that make extra profits have just been settled. I remind you that these main objectives are often as apostrophe and in other laws that have led, among other things, to this difficult situation in the economy, and not wanting so much to return to the past, almost one majority or 90% of bankruptcys and the entire long-term bankruptcy process goes back to the time of conversion and privatisation. And no one in Croatia can say thank God no one is punished for this conversion and privatisation, on the contrary we ask that crime in conversion and privatisation, and that crime itself in the conversion and privatisation of the law is defined not to require both the outdated HDSSB club and the greater efficiency of the work of the State's Attorney's Office, the more effective of the competent institutions, in order to precisely bring criminals from the conversion and privatisation to justice. Not wanting to enter what was done and promised before 2000 and what was done from 2003 to 2012. However, by looking at this law, it should certainly be said for this speaker and certain things that in most cases, therefore, in companies especially at this recent time or in the last three years one of the biggest debtors, therefore it is necessary to separate these situations, that one of the biggest debtors is especially in the companies that have been engaged in the construction of the state, or state-owned company. Not to mention the whole series of criminal activities, and the Javaluke that took place in these companies, in which the majority is owned by state or are 100% state-owned. Where the administrations, the Supervisory Boards, were, not to be angry with the Licens or that someone once again did not think that I might be insulting anyone by my place of origin, were protected as lyrical bears. Where a whole series, therefore, has led to the fact that many of the companies in construction that were working on the construction of the highway have just entered indifference and withdrawn with them a number of companies just for the purpose of not paying the state. But the deputy minister said that there is a huge job in front of the ministry, primarily an official job relating to tens and tens of thousands of companies without employees, without property, but which have huge responsibilities. The open question arises as to who allowed such companies to operate, who gave such companies loans, which were the banks that had no assets, no employees, and even without a responsible person, without a director, giving more millions of dollars? And that's why it wasn't at all, was a controversial announcement of a debtor who was tied to a tax debt, which fell, so in the first three months, but when they mostly paid for it, companies that did their job fairly. So here I would ask the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration to get to know the general public what happened to those huge taxpayers for the tax debt, whether they still exist as companies, whether a bankruptcy was probably carried out by an emergency procedure and what was actually the possibility of a collection. Because I no longer see the Minister of Finance, but neither does the Director of the Tax Administration speak with such enthusiasm about the great successes of paying the tax debt. One of the biggest debtors is, as I said, state-owned companies, but that's where the state helps. First of all, through the possibility and decisions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia which confirms in some cases the majority in the Croatian Parliament from price increases to short-term, long-term loans, i.e. new borrowing. The state is being resolved, and as a colleague from the SDP said, very often entrepreneurs show workers as a cost. However, what will happen to all these workers and excess workers in Croatia, in Croatian forests, in Croatian waters, in the State Administration, etc., how will we explain to them that they are excess and that they are actually a cost for the state budget. So that one false hypocrite and that attitude toward the workers really can't go away in this case. On the other hand, this is only one law that allows one increase and a level of responsibility, but I would also say the termination of one practice that lasted, if normal law is applied to all alike, the practice that led to a 10-year bankruptcy procedure. However, in order to prevent certain companies from coming, especially those large, from entering the bankruptcy process. In any case, we must as the Republic of Croatia, but I would say, the people's government, which most citizens have given trust to do something and to increase economic activity in the Republic of Croatia, not that this economic activity from month to month falls and comes to the lowest branches. So I believe that we will come very quickly with these measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the first five-year-old in 45 years, when the former state came out of the war. And that reminds me of how this country is run. There's a one-off drop in industrial production. And I would like the Ministry of Finance to show the Croatian public the effects on the economy by increasing VAT from 23% to 25%, with a mandatory bankruptcy settlement. Because it is impossible that this increase has affected the level of economic activity and the increase in industrial production. He would also ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Prime Minister to prove, therefore, to Croatian citizens that the increase in electricity, gas, fuel energy, the increase in excise duties affected the increase in economic activity, industrial production and job creation. To this extent, I certainly do not count public works, which, and for them, there is less and less money in the state budget, can, by example, confirm in the local self-government unit, where almost 150 workers are currently rejected through the public works programme. So, I will also remind you at the very end, therefore, with the adoption of this law, that in any case this law must also be tied to the general bankruptcy law, with the Law on State Property Management and what we must have in Croatia, and the Labour Shareholdership Act. Not through the amendments and additions of certain laws, we must have a privatisation strategy and ultimately we must have one whole system to help the Croatian economy both from the state level, as from regional self-government, as from local self-government units. But it is definitely for us to change the law itself on financing and local self-government and regional self-government and to change the entire Tax Law so that everyone can equally engage in the development of the Croatian economy and the creation of new jobs. At the very end, I want to remind myself when I mentioned working stockholdership I want to remind you of the PIC Đakovo or Đakovština d.d. which ended in bankruptcy, several times the state rescheduled the company where the management and supervisory board were appointed by political means, where the government of the Republic of Croatia paid 27.9 million kuna of severance to workers, and in the very bankruptcy process through the sale of assets worth nearly 400 million kunas could not be settled these 27.9 million kunas, and where nearly 360 thousand shares of 300 in the ESOP programme remain, where certain shares are even now on the stock market and the issue that Đakovština went into bankruptcy at all, this in the ESOP programme or the one that has been remedied several times. And what must be done by Croatian society is that the administrations, I am not talking about private societies now, but about the administrations of public enterprises that experts should sit in them and the supervisory boards, should not be the ones who are under pressure that are neither professional, but are only similar in any case. Here's an appeal to the Kukurik coalition to send fewer and fewer e-mails to reduce the employment of similars and to open indeed public tenders for experts to come to these places so as not to bring down similars that will destroy and destroy public companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12780	Thank you. Next up for debate on behalf of the HNS club Natalija Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12781	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the honourable deputy minister with a co-worker, respected colleagues and colleagues. This bill aims, inter alia, to establish liquidity and insolvency of debtors. In fact, we all know how much indifference in the country has increased dramatically over the last 8 years of HDZ and partner rule has affected the business of entrepreneurs in the country and it is necessary to establish a legal framework that would address the debt problem. This proposal will lay down measures to strike a balance between the need to address the financial difficulties of the debtors and to enable the settlement of all creditors on the one hand and the need for urgency on the other hand. Because the time it takes to carry out the bankruptcy procedure is often measured in years, and we have had cases in Croatia for over a decade. We believe that this law, along with partial reform of the bankruptcy law, will naturally provide the advantages that the proposed solutions can offer, and in addition to the formal bankruptcy procedure. The aim is to provide creditors with the most favourable conditions for the settlement of their claims and to ensure conditions for the restructuring of debtors and the provision of a new opportunity to continue business and, if this is not possible, such entities will, as soon as possible, be excluded from economic traffic. The main objectives of this proposal are to make it possible, above all, to enable entrepreneurs to restructure liquidity and insolvency, to increase the level of liability of the company's management towards creditors which, of course, has not been the case, to increase the value of the debtor's assets and to ensure the example and balance between sales and assets to settle the creditors and the financial restructuring of the debtors, to reduce the proportion of loans by converting demand into capital, to preserve jobs as key, to ensure equal treatment of creditors in the same position towards the debtor. The administrative procedure will become faster, more efficient, reduce costs and start the procedure at the initiative of the debtor without distortion and termination of business, of course ensure the existing rights of the credentials and establish clear rules for determining the order of payment of the claim. It also transposes the regulation or directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the prevention of late payment in commercial contracts. What we further consider extremely important is to determine the fundamental obligations of the management and supervisory board in the financial business, the measures to be taken by the administration in order to maintain the liquidity and insolvency of the company, the measures to monitor the adequateness of capital, the risk management obligations in the business, and the obligations that arise when liquidity and insolvency occur. It is also transferred to the Croatian legal system... on the suppression of late payment in commercial contracts. What we find extremely important is that the basic payment deadline is finally introduced among entrepreneurs for 60 days while the deadline between entrepreneurs and public rights persons is 30 days. Given the payment deadlines that have become practice in Croatia in recent years, and here I absolutely agree with my colleague Vinkovic that there is the biggest debtor and in fact the driver of the liquidity chain in the last 8 years has certainly been a state, we consider this provision a key assumption for normal work of entrepreneurs and businessmen. In addition, it is important to determine in which cases the integrity of the contractual provisions and the time-limits for payment and payment delays occur. Furthermore, the pre-demand order procedure will also be arranged and the presumption of the responsibility of board members and supervisory boards for damages to society and certainly to creditors in cases where they were unable to settle in bankruptcy and for the failure of the board and the supervisory board to initiate the pre-demand settlement procedure in due time, which, unfortunately, has been a common case so far. It also provides for and provides assumptions for the exclusion and restriction of liability which we also find extremely important. Finally, the debtors who meet the conditions for the opening of the pre-demand settlement procedure will have to initiate the pre-demand settlement procedure within 90 days of its entry into force, so that we expect that everything that is governed by this law will finally be made possible immediately. Individence, non-payment, or payment with unsustainable long deadlines, absolute legal uncertainty of economic operators are the elements that have significantly deepened and extended this crisis and this law is finally starting to solve these problems actively. Therefore, the HNS Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12782	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Đuro Popioč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12783	Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister. It is obvious, therefore, that the government is holding high hopes for the successful implementation of the mechanisms built into this law to address one of the deepest problems of the Croatian economy, which is ultimately not paying each other's obligations. The question is which today is burdened by the Croatian economy why in Croatia it is actually worth not paying for delivered goods and services. It is certainly the same that this law will not answer this crucial question. The question is whether this law solves the causes or consequences. Generally, neither this law nor everyone else has received the support of social partners nor the professional public. According to information from the business sector which is actually the most interested in this topic, they had no chance at all to participate in the drafting of this law. In addition, the law was sent to the procedure without unfortunately carrying out an impact assessment, and in accordance with the law on impact assessment, which has been in force since 1.1.2012, and this would certainly be necessary for all those other laws, and here is the mention of the VAT increase. To assess the quality of the law, it is justified that it will be passed safely in order to give a deep thought to whether or not it should be passed. In the draft law, there are a number of assumptions in the conduct, and in fact an unreal existing state in the economy. It is one of the higher on the charging of assets and further availability of personnel, efficiency and financial agencies and the Ministry of Finance for these matters, and due to the failure of a part of the system, new institutions are introduced, legal uncertainty is increased, one part of legal proceedings is withdrawn from the judiciary and transferred to the reference of the para-state institutions of questionable expertise and competence. A few concrete notes regarding the Financial Business Act itself and the pre-departure settlement, something about indifference. We believe that it is too short a 30-day deadline for the definition of late payment to third parties, other than workers, that the entrepreneur would be considered inequitable we hold that should be extended. As regards the fundamental obligations of the Management Board and the Supervisory Board. The formulation is imperative but the last obligations of the administration, for example. the sea, is due, etc., is contrary to the Law on Commercial Companies which defines it differently. For example. to act for the benefit of society, to conduct matters with the care of an orderly and conscientious businessman, etc. But it is extremely illogical because it is possible for the administration to conduct business in accordance with the requirements set out in the Company Act without the company being successful and profitable. Otherwise, any society would be successful and profitable at any time. What about objective business risk? Therefore, such formulations should be amended, for example. it is obliged to take all necessary measures or actions. Furthermore, the Company Act is a system law that prescribes the obligations of members of the Board of Directors and Supervisors, so it is not clear why different formulations are given here in relation to the system law. Something about meeting the money obligations. The question of payment deadlines is again regulated, although it is actually a crucial question why it has not been ensured in these laws and legislation so far is adequate and quality protection of creditors. Furthermore, it is provided for the possibility to negotiate a longer period of compliance with the monetary obligation provided that the debtor has provided the creditor with an asset of demand insurance that has the effect of the executive document. The question arises as to what with other means of ensuring the settlement of demand, an example really legal, mandatory legal, why only an executive document. Furthermore,... contractual provisions extending the payment period other than the justifiable reasons for the derogation from the law of the prescribed time limits, which and by which criteria will establish the justification of the reason. For this reason, the State intervenes by force regulations in respect of the deadlines for the fulfilment of monetary obligations and therefore does not impose any more flexible provisions. Why the special fee of the debtor in the delay of the 300 kuna flat-rate, without the need for the believer to invite him to do so when the interest rates are tightened have the same function. A special fee is prescribed in the flat-rate amount, regardless of the length of the delay and the amount of the debt. The mandatory relationship law prohibits... and here it is possible that the flat-rate fee is not in proportion to debt or even greater than debt, e.g. a debt of less than 300 kuna. In addition, the Mandatory Relations Act knows the Institute of Contractary Penalties, but only for non-financial liabilities. The Law on Mandatory Relations is a more permanent law which does not recognise the flat-rate fees, has different deadlines for meeting the monetary obligations, does not recognise the Institute of Tax Guarantee under the General Tax Law and therefore finally builds up legal institutes outside the system law. What about other indifference actions that could supply liquidity? It's about the company's liabilities to us... liquidity, e.g. extraordinary income, why is it forbidden. Something about a pre-war deal. Representatives and members of the Contracting Council shall be appointed by the Minister of Finance. Why not appoint them the Committee of Believers as their representatives, given that they already have information about the debtor and are familiar with his business. Representative of the Financial Agency he, if he can always be a representative of the State of the Contracting Council when the State is a believer. A pre-departure settlement shall be deemed to be concluded if it is voluntarily agreed by the debtor and the creditors whose claims represent half the value of all the requests reported, which is usually a revote that can damage the interests of other creditors. In particular, this can be expressed when the State is a believer whose claims represent half the value of all the requests reported, given that it has a direct impact on selected members of the Contracting Council and indirect influence on Commissioners elected by members of the Contracting Council. Furthermore, the opinion of the auditor on financial restructuring with a degree likely to exceed 50%. Not only is this non-serious because who can determine the probability exactly 50%. One of the measures in the financial restructuring plan is the entry into the underlying capital which in this case leads to a change in the structure of the company. The decision to increase and reduce the underlying capital shall be taken in the jurisdiction of the main assembly of the company, i.e. the assembly d.o.o. the special procedure laid down by the company law, and this is a condition that it could be proposed at all as a measure. The involvement of the judiciary in the proceedings is necessary and should be done to resolve the dispute and ineffectiveness of the court procedure. A bankruptcy law modelled in practice by German proven, but long-term education was conducted in Germany prior to its entry into force. Instead of such access here are offered ad hoc solutions. The accelerated process of passing a new law not only guarantees its implementation, regardless of two readings, but opens up the issue and education of the staff to implement it. We've heard some data that more than 8,000 employees of the FINA and the IRS will handle the settlements. I think that's impossible because there's probably less than 8,000 of them in total. Justification that due to the non-functioning of part of the state government, new laws must be passed means entering additional costs with unprepared and needed staff. In addition to all of the above, they will actually implement those who have contributed partially to the state of play that makes the procedure for the adoption of the new law. Furthermore, the law does not treat all entrepreneurs equally. In general, all the proposed solutions put the state in a privileged position which may potentially be able to fill the State's cash register in the short term, but should be taken into account that regulations of anti-enterprise character, legal uncertainty and the possibility of abuse when the state is directly appointed as an arbitration officer in the long-term could have negative consequences on entrepreneurs and, consequently, on state finances. In the sense of the Competition Protection Act, state authorities shall be regarded as undertakings where they operate directly or indirectly on the market. The ruling position is realised among other things if there are legal or fact obstacles to the access of other entrepreneurs to the market, and the ability to exclude competitors from the market by targeting other entrepreneurs. Whether it is abuse of the ruling position by imposing unfair conditions or applying unequal conditions on equal business with other entrepreneurs, which brings them into an unfavourable position in relation to competition. If, therefore, the expert opinion of the Competition Agency should also be requested, is the law in accordance with the Competition Protection Act. In view of the situation of the Tax Administration according to which the members of the administration personally correspond, members of society as tax guarantees that no other believer has the right to decide in the administrative procedure and their responsibilities. Here, it is obvious that, in fact, in the absence of real and quality economic policy measures, by the accumulation of new administrative measures and by the institution, the institutions want to fix the figures that are going to happen anyway, by mass bankruptcy, by eradicating debt or by everything that is not going to happen in these processes, and by all of the previous moves, this government is actually pushing entrepreneurs and the whole economy into a worse and more difficult position. We therefore also follow this law in a series that will further make business conditions worse, worsen the entrepreneurship climate and strengthen legal uncertainty, and for these reasons we cannot support it in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12784	Thank you, too. I would like to inform you that Article 207 is in accordance with Article 207. The Rules of Procedure expired at 12.18 minutes for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. We're continuing an individual debate. Comrade Pejo Grbin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12785	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Deputy Minister. Here is the Financial Business and Pre-bank settlement Act. It is another step that this government has been trying to take care of what has been happening in Croatia for the last 8 years. Shortly before the election, an entrepreneur from Pula asked me when you would finally come to power, because as HDZ appears in power, it suddenly stops paying. First he doesn't pay the state, then not everyone else pays. That's exactly what we're trying to do with this law, so let's get on with it. This law regulates payment deadlines in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations, but in such a way as to prescribe a maximum or final period within which payment must be made. And why is that? In order to prevent those with the strongest position on the market from attacking their suppliers, they blackmail them and condition them according to the old one who strengthens them and pressures them. And normally, normally, from the Association of Employers from the highest peaks come pressures on this law because it affects those who are the strongest, strongest on the market, such as Agrokor and are prescribed not to act according to the usual practice so far. Whether the deadlines of 60 days or not are maximum of 360 days too short or too long will be further discussed and decided. I think they are correct, but they are also positive that the state has decided by this law to set itself much more difficult conditions than it has set for private entrepreneurs who appear on the market. In addition to payment deadlines, this law also regulates the issue of indivisibility, i.e. what an entrepreneur may or may not do when it reaches that stage and the pre-departure settlement procedure is prescribed. In previous discussions, we have heard that this violates legal certainty, that something is getting out of the justice sphere, but I think that's not true. In short, I'll try to sum up what he's trying to do with the pre-fashion settlement procedure. He's trying to do it to save the entrepreneur before he drowns, to get to the moment the water came to his throat and try to save him. Is this going to save a lot of entrepreneurs? We won't, but we will. And just because we're going to save a few, which we're going to keep 100, 200 or 1000 jobs means that this law is good, that this law is necessary, that this law is beneficial. Does it violate legal certainty? Well, of course not. In fact, it strengthens because it prescribes exactly what one can, and what one must not do when it becomes incomparable. It is very clear which payments are to be made, on what condition and order. Is that a breach of legal certainty? Well, of course not, because anyone who takes this law into their hands will know what to do, which they can't do. It's the legal certainty of a colleague and a colleague. Is this something getting out of the justice sphere? No, I don't. In fact, it's very clear that it's signed and that it's pre-warrant. However, the procedure that precedes it has been prescribed, but the last word and approval, the control of legality, will have a court. But that's why the court won't be burdened by the conduct of the previous proceedings. Are the deadlines too short? Like I said before, I don't think so. However, it is precisely in the case of a pre-demand settlement, i.e. in the event of an indifference. We need short deadlines to avoid what is unfortunately a very common case, which is insolvency and failure. In such cases, deadlines must be short. And finally, we heard that this law is contrary to the Company Act. It's not. The company law stipulates that members of the administration must run the business of the company, so they must, with the care of the orderly and conscientious economic operator. It is prescribed that members of the Supervisory Board must act in the interests of society and act with due regard. We hereby prescribe what a conscious economic operator may in the event of insolvency, and a pardon for indifference may and may not do. There's no contradiction to the Company Act, though. That's why we have to support this law because I believe that at this very moment, when indifference and non-payment are higher than our heads, we have to do everything we can to prevent it and try to save this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12786	Thank you too, colleague. We have two replicas on your exhibit. The first reported to a colleague, Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12787	Honored Mr. Vice President, I am a colleague of the coat of arms for an effective bankruptcy procedure, for everything that promotes life in this country and especially the conditions of the work of economics and the economy. I have a replica of your exposure because you said that as soon as HDZ came to power, it would immediately become a questionable payment, that payment deadlines would be extended, that what should be paid would not be paid, that debtors should not be paid to pay their dues. Now, I'm asking you one thing, as I recall Minister Linic said these days that over the last six months, the head of the SDP government and the rest of his allies, let's call them that and that the liabilities of this non-payment indivisible have increased by 3 billion. So explain to me as an average thinking man during the time of the SDP government in six months it has grown by 3 billion, and you say as soon as HDZ comes to power to grow it. There's a illogical thing for me, and I think every morning when you get up or when you start saying you can't do it without the HDZ. It doesn't matter what HDZ does to this, it needs to do a good thing, but not every thing should be piddling with this kind of politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12788	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Peja Grbin. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12789	Dear colleague Marasovic, I thank you for your replica. Data on indifference and its trends were presented by the esteemed Deputy Minister, unfortunately sometimes it takes a little longer, sometimes 6.7 months for some trends to change. You know eight years to save in six months that would be impossible. And you yourself know as a doctor that when a person smokes for years, he drinks, then it takes him some time to heal from it. It doesn't get healthy in a few days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12790	Thank you, too. Next replica, Ruža Tomasic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12791	Thank you very much. I support this law, of course, because everything that will help entrepreneurs, especially in small and medium-sized support, and I think we've had a pre-nuptial settlement before perhaps the Adriatic would not go through this agony as it is now going through. I just want to know how you're going to force, so don't talk, not beg, but force the state or the big entrepreneurs here you mentioned Agrokor which is why these small companies go bankrupt. So it's not for its business, it's for these big companies and for a country that's not paying what's supposed to be paid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12792	Thank you, too. We have a response to the replica. Here's a colleague of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12793	Here's a thank you, dear colleague. I agree with you. It's exactly what I was saying about pre-fashion settlements to save the situation before it becomes irreparable. And like I said, we can't, it would be unrealistic to expect us to make it every time. But let's just make it a few times already we've done a lot. And the second thing you have stated is that this law introduces very strict violation provisions aimed not only at the entrepreneur as a legal person but also at the responsible persons of the entrepreneurs. So whoever breaks the obligations of this law will get it in his pocket. But in my opinion, this is the most effective sanction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12794	Thank you, too. Next up for debate, Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12795	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. In fact, every time I am fascinated by the fact that we are making very serious laws here with the long-term consequences of how we resolve a certain situation in the economy, that even here in Parliament, in certain entrepreneurship circles, it begins to talk about the anti-entrepreneurship climate, the anti-entrepreneurship regulations of the minority to choke on entrepreneurial freedoms, and it does not take into account the basic definition of the state and its impact on the economy that such an economic policy, or such regulations that regulate economic flows, can now be expressed and entrepreneurial freedoms, and that order is being introduced in mutual business between entrepreneurs. It is the task of the state, and entrepreneurial freedoms are something else and they are actually manifested through production, through new products, through new markets, through exports etc. So the laws that have been here before us and this one, in fact, are quite the contrary, because they regulate the financial market, regulate financial discipline, strengthen financial discipline, and thus also the legal certainty of those who operate in the Croatian economy. This law lays down the financial operations, payment deadlines and the consequences of the failure to meet the financial obligations in due time, the operations in terms of liquidity and insolvency and the pre-demand settlement procedure. It is very important precisely because we heard through the opening exhibition and through the presentations of clubs that we have a very difficult financial situation in the Croatian economy. So a huge indifference, a large number of entrepreneurs no longer have a chance to get away with it, so this figure of over 30,000 entrepreneurs that actually don't even work anymore, but it's run through statistics and as entrepreneurs, but also like those who are blocked and not paying. On the other hand, the entrepreneurs who are looking here will have to write down through their business books. So, in a very short time, indifference doubled, and then now it's actually galloping, if it doesn't come to an end. Something similar to inflation, it starts with a double-digit and it's very fast, it's three-digit. That's how it happens with inequity. We have, for a long time, pointed to this problem, and as a club, we are on two occasions, it seems to me that we went with the initiative, in the past term to arrange payment deadlines, to introduce discipline in payment obligations, and to sanction management, or Supervisory committees that don't care about it. As an initiative to open a serious debate in Parliament. And then we pointed out the need for the adoption of the Financial Business Act and the application of the European late payment directive, which was adopted in 2000, when they also saw in the countries of the European Union that non-payment becomes a problem for them. So, when it comes to bankruptcy, for various different objective and subjective reasons, he is not effective with us. So, it's being carried out too late, the procedure is too long and most often the company that goes into bankruptcy ends up being liquidated. And as already said in some statistics here, somewhere around one-third of the claims are charged through bankruptcy proceedings. The question is also why have the provisions of the Law on Commercial Companies not been implemented in bankruptcy that regulate the responsibility of the Administration and the Supervisory Boards? We talked here when we discussed changes and additions to the General Tax Law, about this instrument of breach of legal personality. And that, in fact, in courts of such administrations that are illegal, they had illegal business, companies that ran, and the Supervisory Boards were not at all, or very rarely sanctioned, and if they end up in a court of law, that procedure is long and ultimately does not bring results. Why the proceedings before the Trade Courts are, for example, years and years. to very simple procedures, such as a payment order based on an authentic document. I had experience from the 1990s, at a Trade Court in Croatia, that such a very simple payment order procedure, or the execution of financial resources on the basis of a valid certificate, lasted 5.5 years and we ended up outside the court settlement. Why have the courts been doing this for so long? So these are all questions that should be answered. So through this law by regulating in the first part of the payment deadline, defining insolvency and indifference, and in the second part of the pre-fashion procedure, we're actually trying to save what's still being saved that. It is good that, with this acquis of the European Union, including the legislation of certain European Union countries, we look a little wider. And I find it quite interesting here to introduce this one American instrument from their bankruptcy law, which is a debtor in the possession. So, that the debtor still, or the debtor company, still works, but that he owns his own property, but that he must then conduct his own business quite differently. Therefore, only the necessary costs related can be met, only the necessary costs related to production. He has powers and obligations, but he also has a duty to work in the interest of creditors and the preservation of assets, not through bankruptcy, where the bankruptcy manager often sells out assets. As much as he can charge, as much as he can charge for it, that's a very miserable result. Therefore, payment deadlines shall be established up to a maximum of 60 days if they are agreed, if they are not agreed on for 30 days. This is a provision under the European Directive, and for more than 60 days, the debtor must issue payment insurance that has the effect of the executive document and can negotiate it for up to 360 days, so up to 1 year, it is actually a short-term loan. The most difficult will be to meet this second payment period, which is between entrepreneurs and public rights persons where it is defined only for up to 30 days and only in exceptional cases up to 60 days. And it's actually a huge commitment of the state to the part where the payments are made out of the budget, but also public and state-owned companies, which will have to be organised differently in order to meet these deadlines. And that means that other entrepreneurs who take as alibis, that the state doesn't pay them actually won't have such an alibi and will have to behave otherwise. What is the objective of the pre-war proceedings? To actually enable the debtor to be restructured, to enable the believer to collect his claim, in whole or in part, under more favourable conditions. There are other options whether he will charge or enter the company’s own capital. It is triggered by the agreement between the debtor and the creditors whose expenses go beyond one half of the total demand. And therefore, there is now one, there must be a great understanding of the credentials to rope into such a procedure. It can be carried out over the legal person and debtor of the individual, so to the individual trader, the small entrepreneur, the craftsman, and it is conducted in front of the Regional Centres of the Financial Agency, and the settlement itself must be in front of the Trade Court. The procedure must be completed within 120 days. And now that there is such a dilemma, whether the believer, or debtor, is obliged to initiate such a procedure, I would just like to point out a few articles of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12796	Time, colleague Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12797	Excuse me. Hence, Articles 17 and 18 say that he is still obliged to initiate it, and it depends on his believer whether it will come true.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12798	Thank you. Next for an individual debate, Igor Radjenovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12799	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, Madam Director of the Tax Administration. Well, I think from these previous discussions, it's obvious that the law of this country is actually absolutely necessary. Probably the content and most important law of this package of financial laws if we can measure it in some way if this economic financial package does not compare with any other areas of life in the Republic of Croatia, but in any case, the results of this law are going towards the direction it might be too radical to say that this government is passing or falling into the realisation of this law, but in any case it is a major challenge and once the country's brave step has spoken of it, my colleague and he is actually making a great commitment to what we have not realised for 20 years, therefore, the responsibility of everyone in the system and the healthy and unhealthy part of entrepreneurship, where there is indeed a healthy entrepreneurship of the victim but the irresponsibility of the state in carrying out its public obligations to build this column, so I believe that this law will have to run trends or, in which case, we will obviously have to reach for even more radical measures. I'm glad to say the government has the courage to measure and bring you in. You will agree with your colleague and colleagues that the current situation is unsustainable. Mr. Deputy Minister also spoke about it, some of the other colleagues spoke. So, uh... Today's account we have with the trend of growth we have 44.5 billion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There's a lot of claims over a year old. The long-term bankruptcy so the average of Croatian bankruptcy in about 5 years we have thought 38 if I remember here the bankruptcys that have been over 10 years are actually someone on the outside it's impossible to explain the situation. ... My colleagues, when they talk in their international contacts with outside experts, can't really explain it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What the World Bank has shown in its research has shown is that Croatia is among the last countries in this regard, and in the surrounding countries, the fact that it is the last around the percentage of payment and bankruptcy procedures, so only 30% is charged, so it is indeed the result that is defeated and which actually indicates that a fire measure is necessary if one such complex law can be called a fire measure or a small bankruptcy law as stated here but is necessary in any case. Do you continue to present these figures to 72 thousand blocked entrepreneurs, 38 thousand entrepreneurs who did not practically submit financial reports without any sanctions and we... observed, 26 thousand entrepreneurs who do not have employees who have debts of nearly 10 billion kunas etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Try your colleagues and colleagues to multiply these numbers by 40, so imagine that one Germany has those numbers without GDP, which is several times larger. Just to multiply these numbers, could such an economy work with these huge numbers? I assure you, he certainly wouldn't. Since it is a long-term state of huge amount of energy and management, as well as employees in finance and all other employees are actually using a huge amount of energy and time, money to try to collect some claims. A lot of phones are spent, lots of lunches, a lot of miles to talk and talk about and try to solve some problem that north of Sutla or north of the Alps is practically unknown. Instead of using a large amount of energy in businesses themselves in market research, in the development of new products, in the development of new services, etc. So in raising productivity, in raising economics, that's what I believe after this law gives results that the energy of Croatian entrepreneurs will be directed in this direction, and then of course there will be GDP growth and, consequently, a rise in the standard of living for all of us. We are aware of the fact that the Croatian government is aware of the weight of this law, it has been cooking for two months now, but in some kind of public debate, a whole series of round tables of public debates have been held for about a month. There were problems it wasn't secret and aligning it between the ministries themselves. It's simply a step in relation to the Ministry of Justice I assume that there were the most objections in that direction, so because of the objective ineffectiveness of the courts, this bold step goes in that direction. But I commend that the government has the courage for this step since the last government unfortunately did not have and perhaps to counter or avoid the replicas of the people of the Ministry of Finance probably and the economies had some proposals but it fell at the political will of the government. If that political will of the government went through the government and the law went into procedure... Some of the laws that would go to the recovery of the economy would then give up very often, required some consensus at the same time as we now have enough hands on this side. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I believe that on this side we will pass many good laws which may come upon public support immediately and on the research of the public may show some declines but after a certain time surely this pretentiously spoken courage will pay off, but in any case the responsibility of the Government and responsibility for its actions. Therefore, I am no longer experiencing this bill of law as a continuation of quality public and professional debate as a first step. I believe that over the summer, many stakeholders will say that it is popular to participate in the debate over this law and that in the autumn, with certain shifts, we will thank everyone and opposition clubs for a constructive debate here that we will come to another reading and that, as I said, we will adopt this law in this House in September this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12800	Thank you, too. We're continuing an individual debate. Branko Vuksic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12801	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister of State. A pretense settlement is a good way, and this law has good intentions and has a positive drive and should certainly be supported. This law confirms at least on paper for now and the regulated countries confirm it in everyday practice that bankruptcy should essentially mean a change in ownership structure. The bankruptcy should not be and is not always the liquidation, bankruptcy should not be and not always the sale of assets, bankruptcy is not the sale of what we find at the warehouse and bankruptcy should not mean to throw or expel workers on the street. This law lays down some of the rules on bankruptcy or predicate how and when to declare how and when to implement it. This law will certainly prevent a robbery through bankruptcy that has legalized crime. And in this crime were the first owners of companies to get almost bad, they were donated to similar companies, close foreigners in power or close to the authorities. Others in the chain of these crimes were bankruptcy managers also favored by the government, and then bankruptcy judges who closed the chain. The workers mostly ended up on the street, and the individuals from this chain became enormously rich. I hope that such behavior will be punished, that such behavior is a thing of the past, and that all these converted thieves will end up behind bars. And I also hope that this law, but also strict bankruptcy controls in Croatia, will be something else, that bankruptcy in Croatia will no longer be at least not so often long agony, then liquidation and thousands and thousands and thousands of accidents of workers. The pre-conditions for new practice allow for this law. Of course, after this law, the first and most important thing to do is to establish criteria for setting up bankruptcy managers who must not be party kleptomaniacs, but experts, such as why not to mention Mr. Shket who established the model of how to act in bankruptcy proceedings, personally support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12802	Thank you, too. Nadica Jelash. She's gone. She's losing her right to argue. Domagoj Milosevic. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. And last reported individual debate by Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12803	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's the thing, maybe I wouldn't have come forward for this debate, but when we started with an individual, I was encouraged by a sentence in which we heard that we're here today because of what we need, and we can save those who have fallen, so we're thinking about entrepreneurs who are insolvent or insolvent, so now we're passing the law that's going to save them. That order should definitely be done, but I'm also standing by to say that we won't give entrepreneurs 10 or 20 or 500 or 100 thousand kunas so that they solve their problems, and yet that part of the job stays on them anyway, and it's not our fault. And so far, we have had a legal framework for the launch of bankruptcy and the possibility of such restructuring of companies that were insolvent. If no one else then definitely the workers were the first to detect that the company was in trouble, they warned of it, but apparently no one listened to them. And in order to be able to propose bankruptcy proceedings themselves, they had to separate a certain amount of money for which they had not been paid for months and had not had. What would be very good and interesting to get answers to the question of what the institutions were doing during this long insolvency. Here we heard today in the opening statement of Mr. Deputy Minister's proposal how many companies we have that have not submitted their financial report in the last three years. The law proposes certain sanctions and criminal provisions. Whether these companies were affected, asked for something, or simply not taken into account. It would also be good to know how many businesses or craftsmen in Croatia paid the fine because they did not pay their wages in time to their workers. All of these are data that would be very good for us to know how much this law that we are proposing today and which is as good and I repeat and underline again should be to introduce order and to finally make it as normal for those who can do business under good circumstances, and those who are simply not able to enable them to stop being the most painless craftsmen and entrepreneurs because unfortunately it is not always possible and easy. What worries me about this is that we've been dealing with bankruptcy managers so far, and now we're dealing with some other profiles, whether it's going to happen the same way that bankruptcy managers obviously don't do the job they're paid for and that they should do as the law says. On 19 December 2011, we have on the list of bankruptcy managers licensed by them exactly 261, and over the past three to five years, respectively, 287 bankruptcys have been opened. It would be good to hear here today in which way this law will be controlled and which is how I say the test deadline in which we will be able to start applying this law, so after six months, if we can get the first information from the Ministry of Finance how this law is implemented, and I think it should become a practice for us to also control the laws that we are doing the same, and not that after four years, eight years, two years, as someone changes, we say nothing was right, nothing was right, so now we're going to bring something perfect, and then again after four years we're going to say it wasn't good, and now we're going to bring something good again. So I think the real obligation of the Ministry of Finance could be to make at least twice a year whether on the Ministry's pages, it should be a report here in front of the Parliament, but to make this out how much the Ministry of Finance managed to solve the existing problem by adopting this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12804	Thank you, too. This is what we're done with the individual discussion. I'd like to ask Deputy Minister Boris Lalovec, please, for a brief address.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12805	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. By listening to your debate today, we have been given the impression that most and clubs and representatives support this law and solve this burning problem in the Republic of Croatia. In the introduction, I have cited concrete steps, time limits and what we have said through this settlement council where we will follow in what way the dynamics of determination will actually be, trying to solve this indivisibility. I also told you about the erasing deadlines. I have to tell you right away, unfortunately, that means we're going to initiate the procedure, but very slowly this process is going to go to wipe out commercial companies, and there we're going to have to deal with, commercial courts how to speed up this process because we're talking about these entrepreneurs that we've said legally for the last three years haven't submitted financial reports. A large number of them have not submitted reports in the last 10 years. So, 10 years. This is where we took the last three as a legal basis. So I would really like to clear up about such entrepreneurs, so let's try to see what the legal situation is. And also, so these deadlines that we specifically set, we'll definitely report what's going on with those that need to be deleted, what's going on with these settlement procedures, etc. It will be, so the settlement process as we have announced will be public and transparent on the pages of FINA so that the whole process of this settlement will try to speed up as quickly as possible but to make it transparent. I don't know if I got the wrong idea in the introduction when I said voluntarily. So, starting a deal is mandatory, but by agreement, as Mrs. Zgrebec said, the distinguished representative is actually that voluntary bargaining between creditors and debtors, means that they try to find a model in which to actually consolidate the company. What I told you in the introduction is one of the big problems why you can't and you saw through this data on the decline in investment is exactly the financial structure of the company. Because if you saw the drop in the value of capital, then in our companies in 2001 I told you it was 55%. She fell to 34%. Such companies, unfortunately, are very difficult to get new loans from banks now, so they are over-indebted. So when you're looking at the data from the banks, it means very hard. So now we're in a closed wheel where we can't actually, these companies can't generate bigger growth, they're heavily charged with interest. I said last year, entrepreneurs paid 16 billion interest. And this is one way to actually try, so for the first time, it means not only the state that has been involved in the consolidation of the economy to put other creditors, and in the first case I'm thinking about banks. Here we have to do this, not only is the responsibility of the state to consolidate the economy, but also the responsibility of all the entities. Has it been through these different models every time the state actually entered, tried to enter the ownership structure because the other believers, they didn't really want to think about it at all. We believe that without a common agreement between all the believers in consolidation, means what we said to try to convert or, so the goal is actually to stabilize this situation now, turn it into capital and try to reverse that process. I said in the entire debate I was having an expert discussion and I told you professional information. I'm sorry that some actually tried to politicize this problem and said this leads to an anti-enterprise climate. Honestly, and it is not clear to me that if we have about 100,000 registered companies in Croatia, legal persons according to the State Statistics Office and when you have 70,000 business entities that legally, be careful not to launch bankruptcy. I pulled one piece of information from FINA that you have one company that's been blocked for 6300 days and nothing is actually going on about it. I don't know if that's where we're talking about anti-entrepreneurs talking about a 6300-day blockade. What worries me, what I did when I analyzed that data is that companies, I didn't say that in an introduction that has a blockade for over a year to increase them from month to month the amount of a billion kuna blockade. I'm just asking you how? As possible, we are not talking about new ones that have entered the blockade, but about a company that has been blocked 5,000 days from the third to the fourth month, the fourth in the fifth is increasing the amount of the blockade. How? Now my question to you is whether to publish these entrepreneurs who are in such a long blockade, that actually those entrepreneurs who know why they would work with such entrepreneurs actually do not cheat them because there entrepreneurs if they enter, means they, if they normally do business with 6000 days and the one who normally says the entrepreneur will find themselves in trouble. I, we can open a debate about and announce those companies that have been blocked longer than the legal ones, what we said it takes 60 days, so let's see which companies they really are, to warn entrepreneurs not to work with such businesses, and in this way we'll actually help entrepreneurs. So I thank you again for your discussion and for all your constructive suggestions. We will try to work out all of these technical problems that can occur in this law during the summer, and we hope that in the second reading we will also improve it and that we are actually expecting it to be implemented as soon as possible so that the government is actively involved in the consolidation of the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12806	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. And I thank your associate, the assistant minister. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I'm setting a break until 3:00 p.m., and we're continuing with the final bill on dealing with illegally built buildings, second reading, P.Z. No. 95.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12807	Proposal for a law on financial operations and pre-demand settlement, first reading, PZ No. 138, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. The proposal for a law on financial operations and pre-demand settlement shall be adopted. 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. I find that the conclusion was accepted by 92 votes to 34 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12808	Dear MPs and respected representatives of the Croatian Parliament can we continue the afternoon session? If we can go with the next item on the agenda. It is - Final proposal of the Law on dealing with illegally built buildings, second reading, P.Z. No. 95; The proposer of this law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of laws, Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You may submit amendments until the end of the debate in accordance with Article 164(4). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction and the Committee on Justice. Would the motioner's representative like to further explain the government's proposal? Yeah. Deputy Deputy Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning Anka Mrak-Taritash. Here you go, Mrs. Taritash.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12809	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We propose in the second reading the Final Proposal for a Law on the Treatment of illegally built buildings. What is important and important to say is that according to this law we have conducted a very comprehensive public debate over a month in which we have visited 11 major cities in Croatia. Likewise on our ministry's website, the law was held in public debate. We received a series of remarks, we went into the whole process in a way that we went to amend and supplement the existing law, but the existing law was so amended and complemented that it still resulted in a new law. In the Croatian Parliament we were in the first reading. In the first reading, there were a number of comments, so I would like to refer this way to the remarks that were in the first reading and that we accepted. Therefore, the comments that were also very large polemic and in the public debate and in the first reading caused Article 6. Why is Article 6 important? For the reasons that this article is defined and defined buildings that can, so to speak, be legalized because it is a name that we all use. So now the number of buildings that can be legalized is significantly higher than in the existing law, and through the debate in the Croatian Parliament, there was a need to further clarify, or define. In doing so, I do not mean a significant increase, but a clear definition of buildings, or localities where it is possible to legalise it. The proposal that was in the first reading, which was related to this article 6th, said that buildings located in the building area or buildings that were found to be structured constructions can be legalized in the national park and nature park. What does that mean? That buildings that could otherwise be approved for construction in parks of nature and national parks can also be legalised. So we made it possible, then, that this type of building, or those located in building areas, and these are strict reserves, a special reserve, a monument of nature and a monument of park architecture, and they are located in building areas or found structures can be legalized. Maybe I should explain it a little bit. It was a big remark that came to the City of Zagreb from the Zoo. The zoo is located in such a space and buildings that are there, and if they did not allow it, they could not be legalized. And now it will be possible because they are otherwise located in the building area. Equally, when it comes to corridors of infrastructure with spatial plans, these corridors are much larger than really necessary, they really need smaller ones, so this law allows the specific conditions and buildings that are located in corridors after those corridors can be kept in space, i.e. they can be legalised. Therefore, those who could receive a normal construction permit procedure, i.e. a location permit, the main project will also be able to obtain a solution to the state of play in this case. So it was one big subject of remarks we had. The second topic of the remarks we had and which we referred to was the problem of the parties in the process. The problem of how to define them and the problem of how to take further action against them. We also had the comments of several constituency committees, so we have now defined clearly and unequivocally who the parties are in the process for the second reading. We have also defined how they participate in this process. There were a lot of objections here, so the reference card and the digital orthophoto from 2011. If there is a building in the space, which is determined by an eyewitness on the scene, if there are any doubts or if there are insufficiently clear images on the 2011 orthofot, then those who are older can be consulted. There were some objections to making more provisions. Of course, we accepted that and agreed. The same was the point in which the allocation of funds was made. So the proposed budget schedule is 50% to the state, 30% to municipalities and cities whose premises are legalized and 20% to the offices that issue permits. Under the current law, which is in force of the office issuing the permits, they do not take part in any part of it. So our proposal is that the offices that issue permits get 20% of the fee, 30% get municipalities and cities on whose territory the building is located, but it's important to say that they get a complete communal contribution and 50% gets the state. From these 50% the state receives is a legal proposal to finance the recovery plans, i.e. to finance the destruction of those buildings that would not continue to be retained, or which are in the space, and their owners would not submit a request. What is important and important is to say: that this law gives the possibility that all those requirements that are now in order that applicants can choose the path to go forward. So I can complete my procedure under the law that is in force today, which will cease to apply under this law, or I can complete the procedure by the basis of this law which is adopted, which is decided, so that the investor chooses to do better for him. Equally so, the ministry, that I could be operational and that this law could really make an echo, we have legal provisions that are usually used by courts. That means, in other words, that an office that hasn't done its job in years, and that's the kind of office we have. But when the office doesn't do its job, when it hasn't issued a solution in time, we can by law transfer that request to another office that will then be resolved, but the means of compensation gets not the office on whose territory is the operation, but the office that solves it. So it's one big newspaper in this law, and we're going to try this paper and other laws that we're going to make, because it seems to be operational. But what's important to say is that the law would be successful until the end we're preparing, or at a high stage of completion are three things. One thing is a guideline that will go to all the offices where there will be a form of how a solution to the state of play should look, so that it will be all over the same. And that's what we're on the trail of our wish E's license in a normal procedure. The second thing is a regulation, a regulation that defines the method of calculating compensation. You today, with this law that is in force, you have the regulation, you have several groups of coefficients. And then when you take that one garage, even in the area of the same municipality depending on where the position zone is, the fee for it moves between 800 and 22 thousand kuna, which is absolutely unacceptable. Just not for the area of one municipality, not to say that these fees are different for the entire territory of Croatia. Our regulation is based on three elements, so the fee is defined depending on the position in the space, depending on the purpose and the size. So the base is one living purpose, base one when it's located in the construction area of the settlement. Those who are, in the larger and more sensitive space, the coefficient increases, or multiplys. And the same agricultural purpose is, we're going to propose a coefficient of 0.2, or economic purposes, of some other coefficient. The same fee increases with an increase in volume. So price differences depend on the size of the building, and depending on sensitivity and those famous 100 meters to the coastal line are very sensitive. For example, the same house will be able, according to the proposed model, to pay up to 20 times as much as it will pay for the same area of the investor located in the construction area of the settlement. And there's another rulebook that was prepared by our State Geodetic Administration, and it's tied to geodetic affairs. Because here we have defined the video that the geodette is doing in such a way that this video becomes an integral part of the geodetic video that is used for enrollment in the cadastre. Under the current law, every investor for law has to pay twice, once this video applies to the Law on Legalisation, and the second time the recording for enrollment in the cadastre. This video will be part of the cadastre. So these are important things that are to be pointed out, which is related to a law that we all popularly call the Law on Legalization and here's the Government proposes to the Parliament in the second reading of law-making. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12810	Thank you, too, for your esteemed Deputy Minister of the Department of Construction and Spatial Planning. We're on our way. I'm sorry. Do the committee and the working bodies want to take the word, the Legislative Committee, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, the Committee on Justice? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Let's discuss clubs, the first club to apply for the debate is SDP and respected representative Vedran Babic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12811	Dear Vice President, Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us the Final Proposal of the Law on the Treatment of illegally built buildings. When we make every law we always try to make it fair, unfortunately this law cannot be and we are aware of it. It cannot be fair to those citizens who respected the legislation, issued permits, paid all obligations and fees, projects and were often limited by the provisions of the spatial plans they adhered to. Especially unfair to those who legalized their buildings during the period when the penalty for illegal construction amounted to almost 150% of the amount of municipal compensation. But seeing the state of our country and respecting the fact that, according to the latest data, we have nearly 500 thousand illegal buildings, we have to pass a law like this. It is very important to know that the institute for the implementation of this law was established, the digital orthophoto map was made on the basis of the aerographic recording started on 21 June 2011. Namely, all the buildings built after this shooting will not be legalized, and this way is a draw behind which no legalisation will be possible. In addition, the provisions of this law make it clear to all that the process of obtaining permits, i.e. the solution to the state of play, is significantly simplified, making the procedure faster and cheaper for citizens. As I have already said, and said Deputy Minister, this law by introducing, or by correcting, compensation for the retention of an illegally built building in space, will clearly distinguish the amount of compensation for farmers, i.e. economic buildings. With which we can in some ways sensitize with respect to partner and similar structures. That is, the greater amounts will be paid by the owners of those buildings that are not built in accordance with the spatial plans, according to those who are. Following the above, I am convinced that the provisions in the new Law with the treatment of illegally built buildings will encourage the mass legalisation of illegally built buildings, and that this law will justify its purpose. Finally, the SDP advocates’ club submits an amendment to Article 6 of the Law on the Treatment of Illegally Built Buildings, which equalises legalisation conditions in the field of exploitation fields, mineral raw materials, or oil and gas exploitation fields, and geothermal waters with other areas with special status. It has been observed that there are a number of spatial plans in which the areas of exploitation fields are marked at the sites of existing construction, even entire settlements, and this amendment is justified. As I said, the SDP club will support this final proposal of the Law on the Treatment of illegally built buildings, in conclusion with the amendment I was just talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12812	Thank you, Your Honor. The next club of representatives is the club of Croatian Labourists and respected representative Branko Vukšić. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12813	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, gentlemen of the ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Immediately at the beginning of the Croatian Labour Party supports this Law on dealing with illegally built buildings with the fact that it might be more accurate to tell buildings not buildings. And now right after the opening sentence after the support but not one but a hundred but. We ask ourselves questions we don't know how to answer, and he doesn't know I'm sure he's answering our questions or our authority. For 22 years, it's been a team of lawlessnesss. How could you buy a factory in privatisation without any Croatian dinar or kuna in your pocket? So you were a fan of the party in power, so they had a fondness for the failed banks, which of course were later rehabilitated by the citizens, and then those twenty-value banks were donated to the sites. The fact was that while one is being wrongly rich, the other are being thrown off the streets by the weaker ones. If you sued someone 10 or 20 years ago, and you had nothing to do with the court in litigation or duration or lost her. Although you have spent 40 years in the Mirovinski Fund today, your pension barely covers your directing. It doesn't matter if it's modern. By giving up summers and cars and all winter coats in the last 20 years, you've educated your son and daughter, they have a degree, they know languages, they're considered capable but they don't have a job. The neighbor's kids have a job but they don't have a degree because Dad and Mom are in the right party. I could list all the injustices that happen to Croatian citizens every day until at least 6 p.m. and you heard them all, many heard them. But be careful, and when the power is broken, it's tricky. She thinks of the poor from time to time. But to show her the great people's heart allowed illegal construction, for when she illegally built the poor new tycoons could lift their ugly buildings into heaven in national parks, in Kornati, in the Sljemen and Marian protected zone in a coastal protected belt so that it could be thrown straight into the sea from the terrace. And what was the government doing? She kept her eyes open. What were the inspections doing? And they only waved enough to get paid two, three to meet. And so it was probably around 300-thousands of various illegal objects, villas, villas, houses, househouses in places that these fairies, villas, houses or housewives revile to pain. Thousands of stables, wheels and other commercial buildings were built in the meantime, but they do not usually have so many eyes and are never citizens from obsessing but from a mere need. And now after 22 years of tiling lawlessness with one law, how do you make order? Not at all. It's Sisif's job. One good law cannot cure two decades of unemployment, only when the rule of law starts to operate where it is most needed in the judiciary that remains the cancer of the Croatian society and the Croatian state is it then that we have both as a state and as a society the chance to run from a dead spot, even in an illegal construction. In order to begin truly adequately dealing with illegally constructed state facilities, it must function in all segments. Of 300 or 400 thousand illegal buildings, only less than 10,000 citizens have submitted a legalisation request. 390,000 concluded that nothing would happen to them if they disobeyed the law. The government didn't lure them into law enforcement with even a round of payouts. In Croatia, it still pays off, 300 thousand people but also so many families who teach their descendants to skip laws wherever they can and wherever it is worth it, means 300 thousand people know that nothing will happen to them even though they will not legalize what they have illegally built. Of course, as I said in this place 20 days ago, this law and this act of law are not only legal but above all a profound moral issue. Is it morally illegal? Is it morally moral for those who patiently waited on the papers, who regularly paid for the dandelions, who suffered the torturer of bureaucracy, were they morally? Is it fair to legalize an object for those who have reviled the visor to the neighbor, who have devastated nature, who have treated everyone with impudence and selfishness? It's not moral. But I guess this power is like the one before it that allowed the legalization of illegal construction to be good government or just wants to be shown for good. But I repeat, it's easier to be good than just. We are often good because we do not know how to be righteous, and we do a new wrong with kindness. But by insisting on absolute justice, we would again make a new, perhaps even greater injustice. They're not the first citizens, and they're not the main culprits that have accumulated 300 or 400 thousand illegal objects throughout the Beautiful One. It's the charm that allowed it, it's all the authorities that have played kindness on the one hand, and on the other hand they've made their citizens unhappy. My colleagues and colleagues, if this law really comes to life, it will be the same flight to the moon, and we Croatian citizens are not yet ready for any flight. We usually fall into a break-in or into our own traps. The government will show character if it really respects at least the decision to bring down everything that was built without permission after half of June 2011 because it has to collapse. Why? That words or the rule of law are finally shown in action and it will not be difficult to bring down everything that was illegally built after mid-June 2011. There will be an interesting reaction by the authorities to the fact that by now 290 or 390 have been deafened by the law, however, thousands of citizens. What about them? Why not force them to at least register as lawless builders? These questions are not answered by this law, as no other law answers similar questions. The answer to that question is wiser than any law. The answer to that question is wiser than any law. If there is an answer to this question in Croatia, all laws will start to be respected and the rule of law will function, the government will finally become just, not falsely good. The government will finally become successful. Even though we're in opposition, we really want you to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12814	Thank you, Your Honor. The next is the HDZ club and respected representative Josip Boris. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12815	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished deputies with associates. At the beginning of this presentation on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, unfortunately, we must conclude that the final draft law on the treatment of illegally built buildings was addressed within a very short period of time after the first reading in the parliamentary procedure, and that only a small number of objections from the parliamentary debate brought not only by the HDZ Club, but also by the other parliamentary representatives. We therefore get the impression that the applicant's intensity was not to discuss this law in this regular procedure and to seriously consider all the comments, proposals and opinions and, in this respect, correct and improve the original draft law. Moreover, even in the haste of the preparation of this final bill, it is not possible to comply with the text of the interpretations of the provisions with the amendments. We are aware that the issue of dealing with illegally built buildings is a sensitive and complex issue that has been trying to solve in this space for years before this law was originally passed last year there have been several legal solutions to which the intensity has been carried out systematic legislation with a view to resolving the situation in the area and ownership of real estate. The fact is that these years of laws have not received the expected success which points to an even greater need for the full consideration of the effects of the implementation of the proposed solutions from the point of view of space conservation, of the situation in space and of the equality of citizens when defining legal solutions on the conditions and procedures of law. There was also an intensities of the law that came into force in August of last year and the basis which, despite the announcements of the new Government on the hasty adoption of a new law by means of the expropriation and simplification of the procedure, 9,000 requests were taken and 600 solutions were issued. Last year, when the law was passed, it was very carefully considered to the extent to which the implementation of legalisation was justified, but all the positive effects of the well-defined model were also considered both from the point of view of achieving significant revenues and thus the possibility of greater investment in infrastructure by units of local self-government and from the point of view of the resolution of property-legal relations, real estate transport, the settlement of the situation in space, the preservation of space, the promotion of economic activity in facilities whose current status makes it impossible to carry out economic activity. Does this final proposal of the law come to us? Unfortunately, we must conclude that there is a law before us whose implementation will send a negative message to the citizens of Croatia because the proposed legal solutions have failed to find a good balance between the need for the existing situation in the area to be settled and that clear conditions and criteria are defined on the other hand in order to protect the space and non-discrimination of citizens who respected legal regulations when they were built. Here we think of this law expanding the number of possible laws of illegally built all types of buildings, including buildings, in areas protected by specific regulations and the basis of the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. It is primarily about the protected coastal area of the sea, which is defined as an area of special interest for the Republic of Croatia by the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction. I reiterate that the Institute of the Protected Coastal Belt has introduced order into space and has contributed to the preservation of this extremely valuable space, which is also recognised by the Barcelona Convention on the Protection of the Marine Environment and the Coastal Area of the Mediterranean. It is defined by that Convention that, for the purpose of protecting and sustainable use of the coastal area, national regulations should lay down a land belt in the rule of width of 100 metres from the highest sea line in winter in which construction is not permitted. It is therefore even more surprising to us that, in the light of the non-acceptability of this observation, the Government calls for this same provision of the Convention, which defines that the said land belt can be adjusted, i.e. to determine the deviation from the mandatory detachment, among other things, for the sake of social needs. We therefore question whether it is a social need to enable the general legalisation of illegal buildings in the protected coastal area of the sea, except for maritime goods. The HDZ Club is of the view that the preservation of this extremely valuable space is a social need, not that the social need is general legalisation in a protected coastal belt. Do not impose any restrictions, legalisation possibilities in a protected coastal band, for us is extremely irresponsible from the point of view of preserving this national good, and therefore once again we call on the Government to include in this bill the restriction contained in the current draft law. In particular, and again, we point out that in the protected coastal area of the sea, it is possible to legalise buildings built within a protected coastal band of up to 100m2 without any technical documentation, which in itself proves the duality of the division of buildings into four categories according to the building gross surface. However, it is not only legalisation in the protected coastal band that is an example of the government's intention to legalise as much as possible without taking into account respect for the spatial-plann criteria, i.e. the circumstances of these spaces. It is also an example of enabling the legalisation of buildings on particularly valuable and valuable agricultural land and on the surfaces of the economic and protection forests and forests with special purpose, which prevents the current law. It is about areas that we have protected and tried to preserve from construction in accordance with the Law on Agricultural Land and the Law on Forests and therefore cannot support such solutions. We are in doubt also allowing the legalisation of buildings in the area of the cultural and historical unit listed in the World Heritage List, although here it writes with the confirmation of the public-law body or conservation department that such legalisation is possible. We hold disputed and continue to legalise lawless objects in the area of water goods. The proposed provisions of this law do not show why the water well is less valuable and sensitive or threatened in terms of the conservation of natural resources from marine goods. It is also possible to legalise and illegally built buildings in the corridor of transport and communication buildings of importance for the Republic of Croatia, as well as units of regional, regional and local self-government, provided that the public-legal authority responsible for the management of that building has issued a confirmation that it has been built in accordance with the specific conditions laid down by that body under specific rules in the procedure of issuing a local permit, i.e. decisions on the conditions of construction. Furthermore, we want to highlight another important difference between this law and the current one, which we cannot support. It is about eradicating the obligation to pay for the municipal and water contribution before adopting a solution to the state of play that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are building on the basis of acts that are approved to build bring about an extremely unfavourable and unequal position in relation to the owners of illegal objects that legalise their facilities after an accelerated, shortened procedure. We cannot accept the fact that the government is prepared to put these provisions in a subordinate position for citizens who, in the ordinary process, act for construction in relation to the lawless builders. However, such provisions result in a huge and unwarranted imbalance. When this law enters into force, citizens of the Republic of Croatia who apply for a construction act will have to pay in advance for a municipal and water contribution, while citizens who legalise illegal facilities are not obliged to do so before adopting a solution on the state of play. In addition, to what extent this solution will prove to be long-term justified from the point of view of the income of the unit of local self-government will show a realisation that we in our club, in such defined conditions, do not assess optimistically. We see that the proposer continues to insist on the introduced four categories of buildings with the aim of allowing for smaller buildings per surface simpler procedure with reduced documentation, as well as cheaper. However, this division can only create additional problems in law enforcement. And we continue to believe that there shouldn't be any difference, for example, between housing buildings of 380 square meters and, for example, 402 square meters. The documentation to be submitted shall be surface-dependent. Therefore, the area of the building should be taken into account when determining the amount of compensation to keep the building in place, not that it should be a criterion in the legal process in such a way as to practically reduce the amount of necessary documentation to reduce the level of compensation for the legalisation of the facility itself. During the debate in the first reading, we also had serious remarks about parties in the process. Then we noticed that the proposed law did not define parties in the procedure. However, although that provision is included, the call to the parties shall be made public by publication on the advertising board of the competent administrative authority in which the building is located which opens the question to what extent they will provide for their right to be delivered. We feel that such a provision has formalised the party's participation and that it remains unlikely that they will participate in the procedure at all. Furthermore, we also keep the law missing in part of the criteria for calculating the amount of compensation. In fact, we believe that this law should certainly include the basic criteria to be conducted by the government in the legalization of buildings. A provision which only defines that the Government will prescribe the amount and the method of calculating the amount of compensation depending on the size, location and purpose of the building, and the way in which the compensation is paid and the other criteria are kept insufficiently. Finally, we would like to point out that by allowing legislation to bring as many illegally built buildings as possible closer to almost unconditional legislation, and that they are deviated from the protection of the largest part of the coastal area other than maritime goods as well as other protected values. The proposed law confirms not only the system of spatial planning as a whole but also all the spatial plans that have been adopted, and with regard to the unequivocal objectives and purpose of the spatial plans that are in place, with unconceivable consequences for the overall situation in space, as well as the concept of possible future planning of space. For these reasons, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will be abstention during the vote on this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12816	Thank you, Your Honor. It is up to the respected representative Željko Šemper and the Croatian Party of Retired Party Club in the Croatian Parliament. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12817	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This law regulates the conditions, procedures and legal consequences of inclusion in the legal system of illegally built buildings, by respecting spatial, social, economic and technical requirements. The basic institutes for the implementation of this law are the digital orthophoto map of the State Geodesy Administration, a solution to the state of play that legalises illegally built buildings and a solution to the compensation for the retention of an illegally built building in space. This law deals with the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction in a simple and easier way with the problem of their legislation. It has been observed that the orthophoto map was not available or sufficiently accessible to the administrative authorities responsible for the decision on the state of play resulting in the inability to make such solutions. It has also been observed that the administrative authorities responsible for the adoption of a solution on the state of play are not fully qualified to adopt a solution on compensation for the retention of illegally built buildings. In my debate, I will focus on a kind of object where the draft of this law with citizens has raised concerns about the new cost of legalising their buildings. Especially were the emotional responses of the pensioners, owners of the so-called The terminals in small family vineyards or what we call them in Podravina mountains. The draft did not show a big difference between such small objects with an average size of up to 50 square meters and large villas in the coastal belt. This bill, which is before us, has significantly removed the great fear of dilemmas and concerns of owners of small objects. This contributed to a comprehensive debate in the provinces where Minister Vrdoljak explained the details of this law. The implementation of this law and the legalisation of about 10,000 such facilities, the clients in Koprivnica-Kristevci County, are for pensioners who barely survive a new cost in their home budget with small pensions. Although there are newly built weekend facilities, they are mostly wooden objects, over 50 years old, inherited by their fathers, grandfathers, etc. It's my grandfather's. Such facilities are also available in other counties of northwestern Croatia, so here is an opportunity for the equivalent size of the facility and years of construction to be legalized. In discussions around the county, the minister warned the owners of such facilities that they would receive compensation for... Such objects will be symbolic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It won't take too much documentation as for larger squares buildings on the coast. More than that symbolic fee, there is a fear of greater compensation from units of local and regional self-government, which will, by means of the direction of the minister, have public powers in connection with the implementation of this law. This relates to the amounts of municipal and water contribution which would further increase the costs of total legalisation. And in general for the implementation of this law, the opinion is that it will benefit the least from state and local budgets, and the biggest winners will be geodetics, architects and authorised engineers of construction for the assessment of mechanical resistance and stability. All fear their tariffs for making certain documentation by comparing the tariff of public notebooks where, for example, the certificate of an unemployed person’s licence for a particular tender stands at about 245 kuna. According to the bill, a legalisation application shall be submitted no later than 30 June of the following year, which may be too short a time for such a large number of objects. Depending on the total amount of legalisation costs of a particular type of facility, the number of applications and the overall solution to this major problem will depend. We in HSU hope that all institutions involved in the implementation of this law will take into account daily gatherings and that this will not be an excessive blow to their home budget, and this specifically applies to the pensioners of vineyards. Because this is another law that finally introduces order, and this area of life, HSU will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12818	Thank you, Your Honor. The next club is the HNS club and respected representative Ivica Mandic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12819	Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister with Associates. Here I'll take on behalf of the HNS Club a few moments to essentially determine ourselves according to this law. We as a club will surely support this law because in the law that has been in the Republic of Croatia for 40 years it is time to say enough and try to stop illegal construction. Because one of the most significant spaces the Republic of Croatia has is the space of the Republic of Croatia. And with this carelessness in the last 40 years, Croatia has not treated this problem properly. I am not going to talk here about that law that we had so far passed in August 2011, which is certainly with the same wishes as this law made to legalize as many objects as possible, but obviously the procedure was not good and the procedure was quite complicated by the legalization of existing objects. The reason why it went into the adoption of a new law, in legalising buildings in space, is because the situation in space doesn't satisfy. That there are a very large number of illegally built objects. It counts in the Republic of Croatia somewhere over 500 thousand of these objects. What is the desire of this law to try to reach a zero state that would make it impossible to further devast the space in the Republic of Croatia as one of the fundamental values of the Republic of Croatia. With this law, he tries to resolve himself in a simple way justly. The problem is very complex. About someone thinking there might be a significant problem like this that's plagued the Republic of Croatia and this space since '68. I think it's almost impossible. It is therefore good that this law allows as many users of illegal buildings as possible to legalise as many objects as possible with a modest procedure. It is important to note that standards of protection of the environment, protection of production are maintained. Also in this segment, it is very important to mention this economic part in the legalisation of objects because a large number of illegally built buildings in Slavonia and Baranja, in all agricultural areas and livestock areas from Dalmatia, Istria, Zagorje, Gorsko kotar, Bilogor has a large number of agricultural facilities and these facilities if they are not legalised by 2013 all these family-agricultural economies will lose their right to incentives. That is why it is very important for this problem to be put into this procedure and to simplify the legalisation process. What is also important is that the legislator recognized the facilities located in attractive zones and those objects located in rural areas, that it made a significant difference in the legalisation of these facilities itself. It is also expected that the adoption of this law will increase the number of illegal buildings to be legalised, increase the number of requests for legislation, facilitate and speed up the implementation of the building law process, reduce costs for applicants, speed up the process of adopting a solution. In this regard, it is important that the whole process is simpler, faster, and fairer. We're confident this law will do just that. We don't deal with the illusions that this law will solve it 100%, but if it is resolved and in 50% of the cases, I will say that this law is very, very successful, given that the very large number of buildings that need to be legalized. It is also good that the law also provided for 4 categories of buildings relating to demanding, less demanding, simple and auxiliary buildings where the legislator also predicted a certain price difference. What I said and at the beginning of the ideal law doesn't exist, but all these objects exist in space and I'm interested in what state government or any other government or non-national government would allow itself such luxury to take place in the demolition process of over 500 thousand objects. That's why I think with this law being passed and the law being applied. We think we're going to make less injustice than to keep these objects in place and keep these citizens still using spaces without any compensation. That's why I'm going to wish everyone who's going to work on legalizing these facilities, that they have a lot of luck and a lot of understanding, both from local self-government units, counties and citizens. We expect that the results of this law will bring the right results and I congratulate anyone who makes a significant contribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12820	Thank you, Your Honor. The next club is the HDSSB club and respected representative Igor Cešek. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12821	Thank you very much. Respected deputies, assistant ministers, vice presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs. At first I must express regret that this is a very important law, not the first but final second reading, included in the afternoon part of the session when there is no direct transmission on television, so the general public cannot be familiar with the views of all clubs. When I first read the bill on the treatment of illegally built buildings, I noted that this bill is far more quality and clearer than the existing law, to the Croatian Law on Legalisation. Who in no way fulfilled the purpose of his existence because he was deficient, unspoken, and ultimately a meeting for citizens who needed to legalize their facilities. And that's what the results show us that only a little more than 9.5 thousand requests have been received, and they've been solved by about a thousand. What is devastating is the fact that in the Republic of Croatia there are several hundred thousand illegally built objects. What changed in the final proposal of the Law on dealing with illegally built buildings that we have today on benches? Compared to the June 6th bill that passed the first reading, almost nothing. Is this proof that the Government does not respect the different opinions of experts in this area, who have observations on this proposal. True, not in as many numbers as in the current law, but there are objections. The committees, the clubs of MPs and MPs have made 47 objections to such a bill that has not been adopted. What are these changes in relation to the first-reading bill? Article 2(4) speaks of the fact that a digital orthophoto map must be available to citizens at the headquarters of the central government responsible for state measurement tasks, the field offices of the cadastre, the cadastrian offices. And what is commendable, and it was not in the first proposal, is that the digital orthophoto map must be made available to citizens at the insight and administrative bodies that make the solution to the state of play. In Article 3(3), which explains which buildings are considered to be an integral part of an illegally built building, the addition to those buildings is that the support wall has also been placed in the integral part of the illegally built building and can also be legalised. My remarks, which I also made during the first reading, refer to Article 6(2) of subparagraph 2, which says: "The illegally built building cannot be legalized if it is located on the existing surface of public purpose, marine good or aquatic good. In addition to building built on water good with the consent of Croatian Waters, i.e. legal person for water management.". I think the same should apply to public goods, roads, i.e. that they can, with the consent of the competent legal person who manages the road, whether they are Croatian roads, county road administrations or local self-government units. Legal buildings that enter the road belt and do not interfere with the safe movement and the regular separate maintenance of roads. Furthermore, Article 11, 12,13 speaks of the fact that the applicant must contribute to the submission of requests for a solution to the state of play for an illegally built building. If we look at the proposed provisions they are better than valid, because they make differences between buildings, but there is still documentation that needs to be attached to a number. In the case of agricultural buildings less than 1000 square metres, it is necessary to attach 3 copies of the geodetic video, i.e. copies of the cadastrian plan, if the building is recorded on the catastrian plan. And 3 copies of the footage of an illegal building being built by an authorised architect or an authorised engineer. The creation of these legalized documents requires certain financial resources that our citizens do not have. So it's not going to make the state rich in this legalization, it's going to be the offices of architects and authorised engineers. In the case of buildings whose gross area is larger than 400 square metres or only agricultural activities, whose building gross surface is larger than 1000 metres square meters, there is also a statement by the authorised architect, as well as authorised engineers of construction, electrical engineering and engineering. That an illegally built building meets an essential security requirement. And an essential request for fire protection, according to the regulations applicable when the building was built or according to applicable regulations, in the case of a final building, or part thereof. The problem arises when those statements are issued, as they are preceded by extremely expensive atheists. It is not known whether such testimonies will be dealt with positively, and the question is who will take responsibility to issue certificates, or atheists for such buildings. Because it is known that many citizens have studied their case, where it has been realized that in much of the residential building that does not have a valid permit, they are not built in accordance with the building permit. They're also illegal, and citizens pay their loans neatly for them. Furthermore, Article 25(1) states that applicants, i.e. the owners of the building, are obliged to pay compensation for the retention of the illegally built building in the area before the decision on the state of play is taken, i.e. the first instalment of remuneration in the event of the payment of the same. The problem arises in Article 27, which says that the compensation, its height and more detailed payment conditions are prescribed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The question is, how long will she be, will she be acceptable to our citizens? It is clear that these fees can not be the same for all, especially if they are villas at sea that are not for housing but for rent, nor can they be equal for houses in the center of Zagreb of 400 square meters or a house that belongs to the necessary living space by square. A trail of such proposals, compensation for the legalisation of agricultural facilities should be lifted by a regulation if we want to help agriculture as a strategic branch of our economy. Because we know that more than 90% of agricultural production is done in illegal facilities. And legalisation is just a prerequisite for raising the standards of agricultural economies, because of the fact that our farms are mostly illegal. It's a very poor resource utilisation from the IPARD program. What I would suggest at first reading would be my proposal that free-cut buildings in agriculture were not properly built, however, the promoter refused by reason that the free legislation of buildings intended to carry out agricultural activities would not be fair to owners, illegally built buildings of other intentions, so this proposal could not be accepted. Which is then the case that legally built their facilities and now we have free legalization, or not free but cheaper legalization of free-building objects. So this argument doesn't drink water. It's final. This proposal is better than the existing one but there are still shortcomings which I assume will be removed by additions and changes in the future period, and we will see its effectiveness on the day of entry into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12822	Thank you, Your Honor. We've exhausted a list of clubs reported for discussion on this subject. We're moving on to an individual debate of deputies for 10 minutes. The first person to speak was Honored Representative Jasen Mesic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12823	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues and colleagues. I would not repeat what my esteemed colleague, Boris, said in his debate on behalf of the club. He also pointed out that, of course, in this law, regardless of certain positive shifts that the legislative proposal makes, we are not pleased to see in this bill that they can legalise illegally built objects or upgrades within archaeological sites or zones, the spatial borders of the immovable cultural goods or cultural historical units that are listed in the register of cultural goods of the Republic of Croatia. In particular, we are not happy about the fact that, in an explanation for the law-making process, this also spreads to those areas that are asked about in the UNESCO World Heritage List. I'll remind you of my colleagues and colleagues on the Dresden case, that's what I was saying in my first law reading. So there he was at the approach of the city of Dreseden who was listed in a list of world heritage across the river Elbe built a bridge, the bridges were not at all in the zone of protection, he was in the so-called so-called "the Elbe" river. buffer zone. Every UNESCO protection zone has a... buffer zone. During the World Heritage Centre conference, the city of Dresden was wiped off UNESCO's list because of this construction intervention. The UNESCO Convention on World Heritage, ratified by the Republic of Croatia, has so-called operational guidelines, which from Article 172 to 179, treats how they are managed in protection zones that are listed in the World Heritage List. Explicate there is said to be no construction intervention in the zone of protection unless it was previously approved by UNESCO. I can give you two recent examples from the history of Croatia. One intervention allowed in the protection zone is the Split Riva, an intervention that was not allowed in the zone of protection, it is a project of the Bus Station on the Dubrovnik Pilas which UNESCO did not want to confirm. If so, if we know that the Convention is above national legislation, how can it stand here in this bill that the public legal body responsible for the protection of cultural heritage can issue a certificate for the legalisation of a facility in a UNESCO protected entity? We only have six. Dubrovnik within the walls, Old town Trogir, Diocletian's palace and surroundings, Sibenik cathedral and surroundings, Euphrasian basilica and surroundings and the Starigrad field or Starigrad ager which is registered as an archaeological site that is specific in the world because 400 equal parcels of Greek colonization are parceled, therefore there must be no construction facilities there, therefore there is no such regulation that there is no professional rule by which any conservative can legalize such a thing there. According to this, certain interventions, such as tycoons that have been upgraded by blocks and plastic carpenters within the protected part of Dubrovnik, which is subject to litigation or something. I especially appeal to MPs and MPs who come from such places. It is such a powerful cultural tourism brand, a cultural heritage listed in UNESCO's list that no intervention to allow it in terms of legalization is worth any difference as much as this cultural heritage is worth in the country's tourist promotion. I also don't understand how an illegally built facility can be registered on an individual immovable cultural good. It is explained that the subject matter of law can be carried out, for example, for the purpose of changing intentions. If the immovable cultural well-registered as an individual cultural well-being, then every solution to the protection of this country says that it is not allowed to change its external gauges. In the context of changes, interventions are allowed only in the interior, and this already exists in the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, therefore this does not need to be legalised in this way. What does this mean if a man wants to re-use some Renaissance palace into a hotel that he will be allowed to legalize an illegally made annex? Then it's no longer culturally good, then we can delete it from the register. Because if the solution on which his protection is based is that his external gauges must not be touched, how can this be legalized? Then he lost the status of cultural goods. I don't understand how objects in archaeological areas will be legalized. If it is a registered archaeological site, there is a possibility that the object can be legalized only if it is so-called. to movable archaeological sites, so those who can be explored as soon as the moving sites can be placed in a museum facility. If this is about monumental architecture, let's say, Salona, that I don't go further, we'll hear more about these sites if some announced investment takes place, how can it be possible to legalise an object based on such monumental architecture? It's not possible. So neither should the law, because then the archaeological zone is irrevocably lost. In the case of mobile archaeological findings, it is not irrevocably lost because it was investigated and placed in the museum, documented. It's in this case. I wonder what it was necessary to spread to say the scope of this law as I say it has its positive steps, and that's why my colleague Boric said that in this sense we will be restrained, but because of this kind of thing we cannot support him. Who's gonna control that? I hear that some of the solutions of the conservatory services registered by certain Austrian military offices in Istria have recently been lifted after certain pressures. Who will control that someone will not use their signature to verify and give to someone who has built up a building on the street across the protected city of Dubrovnik with blockets and plastic carpenters. Who's going to control it and how you're going to bring it into its original state. This proposal destroys one of the biggest brands this country has. You have special agencies that bring tourists just for cultural heritage in the Republic of Croatia. When I tell you today, Greece or Egypt or Rome, you will first think of cultural heritage. When I tell you Egypt you will see the pyramids, when I tell you Athens you will see the acropolis, when I tell you Rome you will see the colosseum and St. Petra. It's such a powerful brand that you can't possibly in this way lead to it depending on one piece of paper of one institution, completely excluding what it gave to UNESCO's convention. I hope, once again, I appeal to MPs and MPs who come from these places to take this seriously into consideration and try to sort of fix that provision in law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12824	Thank you, Your Honor. The following has been registered for discussion by respected representative Ruza Tomasic. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12825	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here is why I did not participate in the first reading of the law, but before that, I sent a proposal that consisted of an indication of the amendments and the consolidated text of the law. I haven't received any notice of this obvious and directed material, although we've worked very hard to do it and put it together, so it might be fair if you'd at least sent me some kind of notice as to why it wasn't included or not accepted. So today as we discuss, I'm making some of our proposals that are not accepted. Therefore, Article 3(2) proposes to include new concepts in a way to add new sub-items that read as follows: a study of illegally built buildings is a study that must be carried out as part of a thematic report on the situation in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and units of the regional, regional and local self-government following the adoption of this law. It contains a level of analysis of sociological, demographic and economic components, illegal construction as a phenomenon in the Republic of Croatia, guidelines for solving problems and drawing up plans for the recovery of areas damaged by illegal construction, data on individual illegally built buildings and their builders or users, so the register of illegally built buildings, data on the OIB, social or economic status of builders. Reports must be made within one year of the entry into force of this law. Or, for example, a solution to the temporary retention of an illegally built building in space, this would be a solution to be issued at the request of the applicant who, under criminal and material responsibility, claims that its illegally built building was built in order to achieve a minimum social or economic, economies mean agricultural or family rights holdings guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. All of the above applies to market construction. The decision shall have a final period of validity of 10 years from the date of power after which an act prescribed by these laws or by the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction must be issued. All statements and documents of the applicant shall be subject to verification by the competent national authorities. When issuing a solution on temporary retention, the territory of the Republic of Croatia shall be entered in the land register for the benefit of the Republic of Croatia, which may be deleted after the entry into force of the act prescribed by this law or by the Law on spatial planning and construction or removal of the building. You also did not accept the recovery plan of the area damaged by illegal construction, in the further text of the recovery plan. This is a spatial plan in the category of targeted changes and the addition of a spatial plan of arrangement of the municipality, city or large city, the spatial plan of the City of Zagreb or the general urban plan, urban planning of the arrangement or detailed plan of the arrangement, depending on coverage, provisions of the plans of the wider area and guidelines from the thematic report on the situation in space. The recovery plan may constitute a specific chapter in those plans with implementing measures defined through implementing provisions. The contents of the recovery plan will be specified in more detail through the Regulation on the content, scales of cartographic displays, mandatory spatial indicators and standard of embodies of spatial plans. To keep from reading our proposals, we have proposed them in the form of amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12826	Thank you, too, Your Honor. It is now up to the honourable representative Zoran Vinkovic and 10 minutes. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12827	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I'm going to start with something I've already read here, although down from the pay phone, which is based primarily on the opinion I'd say to a multi-party opinion since the members of the Committee on Local Self-Government are members of almost all the political parties who are here in the Croatian Parliament and who have defined two conclusions and proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia as proposing the proposal for this Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings to install and amend a provision that defines not only the payment of municipal and water contributions, but also for the existing part relating to the illegally built buildings, because every unit of local self-government has the possibility and the release of municipal, though not and the water contribution that is far greater in many cases than the level of municipal contribution from which it is visible, so the infrastructure that is connected with the local infrastructure itself, which is not built up from the construction of the construction of the property, but the legal property that we have built up of the building and the property. So that units of local self-government can also release the payment of this fee that I would say in a centralist way is shared between local self-government, regional self-government and the state itself. And now that conclusion I've just read has been reached unanimously. So, members of the Kukuriku coalition and members of the opposition also voted for this conclusion. The Committee on Local Self-Government also proposed that, given that in this committee, this was the opinion of the association of the municipalities and alliances of the cities of the Republic of Croatia that these funds were distributed in proportion to 50% of these funds being paid to the budget of the unit of local self-government, 25 to go towards regional self-government, i.e. by offices, according to the headquarters of the office to issue licences. And 25% of the funding to go to the state budget. So, I could support this law at the very end of the line. However, as long as these important and key issues are not resolved, because it should not be forgotten that the state is not going to create a municipal infrastructure in the settlement by legalising the debt units of local self-government, I believe that what the state takes in 50% of the funds and benefits is not even fair, and it is not based on other positive regulations that define the functioning of local self-government. Therefore, the Ministry of the Citys Alliance, the Committee for Local Self-Government and even members of the Committee, who are members of almost all the political parties sitting in the Croatian Parliament, did not respect the opinion of the Union of Cities, the Union of Cities, the Committee for Local Self-Government and even the members who are members of the Committee. This law should in any case not, and that is why we have proposed such changes, this law should not be a law on the legalisation of villas, apartments on the Croatian Adriatic, but should help and encourage, above all, legalisation especially in Slavonia and Baranja, legalisation of agricultural facilities in such a way that these facilities can also enter pre-accession funds but also allow local self-government to free just such payment facilities and compensation. In any event, Article 22 of this Act relating to the municipal and water contribution where it states that the applicant, or the owner of the building for which the decision on the state of play has been adopted except for the auxiliary building, shall be obliged to pay a municipal contribution and a water contribution in accordance with specific regulations if this law is not prescribed otherwise. Already in the fifth paragraph of this article, this law refutes itself and allows for exactly what a broad debate was about to take place to rejuvenate the units of local self-government. Because if we exempt from agricultural facilities then most of the illegal buildings are practically villas, apartments and exception for at least 3% of those housewives somewhere in the municipalities, in villages or outside of construction zones that people mainly during the Homeland War when they were running from the Serbian Chetnik Armada, then we'll see that this is actually 95% of the cases of legalization of cottages, apartments and villas. And now, in paragraph 5, it is said: "The solution to determine the municipal contribution and the water contribution is approved to delay the payment of contributions. Therefore, the ministry is put here above the unit of local self-government, i.e. the delay of its payment in the event of a payment for a year from the date of implementation of the solution. So it's not the ministry, and I would first of all ask the legislator to then read the Act on the functioning of local self-government and not to interfere as a ministry in the business of local self-government. Because the responsibility of local self-government is to enable therefore and the circular payment of the municipal contribution, not the water contribution that is the real harrassor. But in any case, in order to issue a valid building permit for all those who are legally operating buildings then, they must in any case pay at least one war of municipal contributions to obtain a building permit, give payment instruments to the local self-government unit the possibility of that payment. Normally, there are also certain illogical things in this law where the law is really put above the legislation which is stronger than the final proposal of the Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings. I especially think about UNESCO's protection, which is what my colleague was talking about, so I'm just going to mention one case of reconstruction, so Strossmayer's case in front of the student, or Strossmayer's cathedral, where you can't get permission to start work before all necessary archaeological research is done. And perhaps if I had been irresponsible as certain owners of villas, apartments, etc., I would have saved far more funds in the budget. So, what I'm asking for, and I believe, if he has any sense in the ministry that this law has proposed that he will respect the opinion of the Committee on Local Self-Government, especially since a broader political consensus has been reached through that committee on this issue, and above all this concerns agricultural facilities throughout Slavonia and Baranja, which are obviously
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12828	Bring in the end, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12829	I'm done. And in any case, it's about the jurisdiction of the local self-government unit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12830	Thank you, too. A replica of the respected representative, Jasen Mesic, has been reported at your presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12831	Well, my dear colleague, I'm glad you mentioned that you were here on the occasion, before you started working on the student square outside the cathedral, you had to conduct studies of a certain archeological nature because they were made as I recall the test probe. I know that the Ministry of Culture has been involved in this with certain means, of course, of the city of Djakov. It was a very smart move because we came up with data we didn't know we'd find there. How clever was what recently happened in the Vinkovci when silver treasure, silverware considered equivalent and... It was very clever to do so and therefore such provisions must exist and therefore we cannot allow certain things to be legalized over protected archaeological zones. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's one thing. It is sad to say, however, that there is no division of archaeology for the first time since 1967. As if it were gone, but as soon as something with the efforts and work of archaeologists and according to the regulations of law, something is found immediately, the whole set of officials will remember to paint around it as if they had found it, not archaeologists on the ground. So I really think this was a good move for you to decide, Mayor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12832	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12833	Well, you see, fellow Mesic of me as mayor, you can't expect bad moves, certainly. However, I will return to this very law that I say facing fairies, apartments, villas with swimming pools, etc. I hope they're not in protected areas of cultural heritage, but I'll take only one island or peninsula that's connected to the bridge, for example, Vir. There are several tens of thousands of illegally built buildings. So, the state is not the one, it will collect that fee, not to mention other tourist destinations throughout the Adriatic, the state is the one who wants to collect 50% of this fee in this way. The second thing is that these units of local self-government will have to and... illegally built buildings that do not serve for housing but serve primarily for rest, some are on 5.6 floors etc. There was that little crash I saw myself, but only the Hungarians died there. I hope no one is looking for a break to insult the national minorities again, but the fact is that the Hungarian owners of those cottages died. But I just want to say that the local self-government unit is going to have to solve the entire municipal infrastructure, and it won't have enough funds, not even through the collection of the municipal contribution, because that contribution will be extended through 25% of the fee. So if someone could build a villa with swimming pools, I don't know how many million euros then they can suddenly pay this fee. This does not apply to agricultural facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12834	Thank you, too. Now I know you don't suffer from modesty. Let's move on with the debate in order. Honorable representative Ante Babic and 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12835	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed assistant minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The reasons why illegal construction occurred in Croatia is clear to everyone in unresolved property-legal issues, but also the lack of spatial-planned documentation as a basic document. Another reason is the concreteisation of the Croatian coast, and this problem has tried several times over the last 30 years. Now we have received a second reading of this law and I believe that it will legalize what is in space and what can be legalized, and the law prescribes that buildings can be legalized and that they have to be recorded in space. What I am interested in and what interests 55 of my colleagues in Split-Dalmatia County and 34 in Dubrovnik-Neretva County are the following things, and they tell us where the tears will be already on the eye, as well as with Mr Vinkovic about local self-government. In fact, it has been said that solutions can be issued, i.e. permits without paying the municipal fee to local self-government units because they allegedly did not count on it, which they could agree on. In practice, however, we know that this is not feasible and that we will happen to get solutions and that those needs and obligations resulting from units of local self-government will not be respected by citizens. So they propose a temporary solution to this legalisation until the final payment of obligations to local administration and self-government units. I see that's not what we're talking about. And the other thing I see that hasn't changed in this second reading is Article 35 paragraph 1 of the amendment of the law which says among other things: "The Katastrian Office will record the completed building in the cataract according to the special regulation governing the cadastre." The question is, will the geodetic elaborate of the building, or will the catastrian offices do so on official duty without additional costs for the party, also be paid after obtaining a solution on the state of play? In this case, if the party does so, they will increase the cost by 3 to 5 thousand kuna. We should certainly keep an eye on these things and make it clear by law. And the third thing that interests all the mayors and mayors is whether it is legalisation, or whether objects are legalized by the law or whether they become a solution to the administrative legal procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12836	Thank you, too. We have on your presentation of the registered replica, the respected representative of Zoran Vinkovic. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12837	A humble representative. So, here's a colleague right here is important, so this article 22, which in many ways refers to units of local self-government as well as the conclusion of the Committee on Local Self-Government. I mean, what do we need a board if we don't respect the opinion of the Parliament Committee on Local Self-Government? So the ministry did not respect the opinion of the parliamentary committee at all, but simply rejected it. But given that I have also spoken to the mayors of cities and municipalities and mayors of the Kukuriku coalition, they will probably not say it publicly, but they also disagree with this distribution. So, this Article 22, we directly enter into the functioning of local self-government units. So, if you want to legally build a building, get a building permit, then you'll have to pay immediately for the first work of the municipal contribution, if you have a good mayor, and he's allowed you to pay in the wars. If you don't have a good mayor, then you'll have to pay at once. Now we're going into legalization, so the law says, "E year I'm giving you more gratis, because you illegally built an object or a building.". This does not apply to agricultural facilities because we have asked for the permission of local self-government units to free even fees, and not only the payment of the municipal contribution, which is therefore the jurisdiction of local self-government. And let's think in the ministry about the amount of water contribution, which depends on the size of the municipal contribution unit far greater than the municipal contribution itself, and the money doesn't know where they're going.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12838	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Ante Babic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12839	So I agree with my colleague Vinkovic, however, here from the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 137 says: "In carrying out operations from local administration units and self-government they have the right within, excuse me, the area of regional self-government are independent and subject only to the supervision of the constitutionality and legality of authorised state bodies.". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12840	Thank you, Your Honor. The next speaker is the respected representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12841	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, I've already spoken on behalf of the club, and now I'm going to try a few more of my thoughts and individual examples, which is why I'm going to say in the debate I'm going to say that we're going to be abstentions, and I'm personally going to be abstention in voting on this law. I must say, here at first we heard that we were passing a law that was unfair. I think it's hard and it's not good for us in the House to speak as Parliamentarians, to pass an unfair law. This is our attitude towards the citizens, and then perhaps, I say that by a colleague from the SDP, it might be better to say that we did not respect this law equally, all that is in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and it can be legal. I personally am not a supporter of absolute knowledge, and I find it difficult to accept all these arguments that you have given us on all fifty of the remarks that we have made from the board, so the representatives' clubs themselves, to the individual objections of the MPs themselves. Only a dozen were accepted, in my opinion insignificant. From the availability of the orthophoto map, to the extent I do not know, reduced documentation related to the outcome of the certificate or the solution to the state of play. The most important remarks that are still being read after 20 days from this final draft of the law. The definition of rough constructive works, payments ratios for the benefit of the state, means in relation to local self-government and regional self-government, protected coastal belt and payment of contributions to legal, or illegal builders. This law certainly deserved and had a lot of attention to the Croatian public, because the fact that we have several hundred thousand illegal objects says that there are equally many times a few, 3 or 4 citizens who are interested in this issue because they don't care what happens to those areas where they live, who have been hard building for years. However, here I am going to go back to some of these questions and ask some questions to the esteemed deputy because we see that through this law we have now expanded the number of cases in which the number of illegally built objects is legalized. So we started on traffic and communication corridors, and then even more into strict reservations, special reservations, monuments of nature and monuments of park architecture. Now I don't understand how we remembered all these protected parts, and do we today, in the spatial plans of the local self-government unit, have construction areas in these protected areas? Or were they really the whims of individuals, I don't know the great politicians, the prominent social figures, so we remembered now to insert these protected areas in relation to what we've had so far, because we've entered both cultural heritage and agricultural land and forests, etc. And then at one point you speak in some areas you can return to your original state, i.e. You can achieve a function of purpose, I'm talking about public social areas. Areas of public use or tourist zones, and in other areas it makes it impossible for us to do so. I don't think that's fair. There is also injustice in the section that says that those who are recorded as lawless builders, who have a solution to the destruction, are 30,000 people, and they are guilty only because someone recorded them and reported them. Compared to all those who didn't, and they know that we were illegally building, and we cut them by almost a year, so they could file a request, while everyone else has a year more. I think that provision should have been evened out and that it should have made it clear that all the lawless builders, regardless of the solutions that will not be realized, and we ourselves say that it will not happen if they apply, that they are all equalized in that part. I've got, I'm saying a lot of remarks and emails from people who are really in trouble. Here's one of Mrs. Zivkovic, who writes to me and says, "I've been doing something my whole life and I've been trying to do something, next door there's a neighbor, a rich neighbor who has money, he's built a house with apartments in town, etc. I am only up to the foundation of the foundation and the first plate he has his house beside me under this law will succeed in legalizing, I will succeed in my foundation and possible desire to have final residential space cannot legalize because the definition of rough constructive works simply does not cover and that part means only the foundation and the first part that connects means... and the board. The second part that remained also questioned, which I said to the committee, what about those people who in 1968 said in certain areas or social public purposes or tourist or catering and tourist purposes were authorised i.e. Under the law they acquired a legal object that may have been upgraded years after that and perhaps two years ago, he in this time became an illegal object that had one time his license he will no longer be legalised under this law. Why do we not allow this by supplementing Article 6 and we say given the documentation that is indisputable to enable these people because these people have a lot, and they know for themselves that in one part of the wrong one they went but they had before that rolling documents. I say there have been different remarks and people really see this as a very important topic for themselves, and they don't need it against them, and we're here to say and make those remarks and the government is there to try to fit all of that into some article. I know it's hard to agree because there are a number of examples which are different areas, but let's do everything we can to make sure that once this law is passed, that those injustices we're talking about are as little less than possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12842	Thank you, too. We have on your exhibit a correction of an incorrect assumption. Hope Turina Đuric. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12843	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well Mr. Boric said one thing I would say is a very heavy accusation and a lie, which is that he declares this bill unfair. Arguing all this together, I guess it was the law that passed the HDZ because I guess it was all the best when they passed the laws that he was just. I must say that in order to be fair, the law must first and foremost be enforceable, and it is feasible and beneficial for most of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, the facts also speak for the situation that we have come to power is such that the law in the good part has not been enforceable and that somewhere around 10 thousand requests have come to legalisation in relation to the figures available to have illegal facilities and that they move on to some estimates and figures over 700 thousand of such objects. Therefore, we cannot talk here about a bill that is unfair in relation to the law that you have passed which you claim to be just and which in reality was not enforceable and which did not benefit the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12844	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please welcome fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12845	Article 209 of the Honorable Vice President because the lady corrects something I didn't say. I said that's what a colleague from the SDP said when he started a preliminary explanation of his part of this law then he said that this law was unfair. And then I said that we mustn't speak in the House that he is an unfair law but to seek out the best concept and say that maybe this law doesn't go the same way to everyone who's been in the room and illegally built.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12846	Thank you. That means we all have to listen more carefully together. But the intensity I realized to my fellow Turin not to defend but she probably overlooked this part that you repeated what your colleague from the SDP said she heard as if it were your saying. [[I'm thinking the same thing.]] Believe me, I'd warn you. I'd like to ask Deputy Minister Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12847	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here's to the end after all this discussion I think we may need once again some of the topics that this law defines and the provisions emphasize. So it's a law that defines the treatment of illegally built buildings. So dealing with buildings that exist in space is a fact that none of us can ignore that we have hundreds of thousands of illegally built buildings in space. We want to put them in this country's legal system, put it in that response system that was here in the discussion can become a fundamental solution to the state of play. Based on a solution to the state of play, the illegally built building has its own cargo charge that has done what needs to be paid in the space. In the same way, it must pay the municipal and water contribution, so this law does not provide for any way to exempt it from its obligations. Based on this, the building can be connected to the municipal infrastructure because you who are participating and at local level well know that an illegally built building today cannot be connected to the plumbing and sewerage in which case this building can be done, and it can also get solutions to carry out activities according to a specific regulation. And in the process of determining the compensation, therefore, in the process of determining the municipal contribution, it is then to determine what is the amount of the compensation and, in accordance with the specific regulation of that jurisdiction, of the units of local self-government. This law provides only the possibility of a one-year delay, which again depends on the owner's request, or again, on the authority of local self-government units. There's something I'd like to say about article 6. So a lot of discussion caused Article 6 which defines the way and which are buildings that cannot be legalised. There's still a series of buildings left in areas that can't be legalized. The fact is that this law has increased the number of buildings that can be legalized and the other buildings are so-called buildings. conditional legalization. What does conditional legalization mean? A conditional legalisation means that buildings located in areas protected from cultural heritage can only be legalised if they have prior confirmation of the competent body to perform the conservator's tasks so that they can be kept in the space under the same conditions under which the location permit would be granted, so the conditions for the location permit and the decision on the conditions of construction. Similarly, buildings located on the planned or explored corridors and surfaces of transport energy and water buildings of importance for the Republic of Croatia and units of the regional, regional and local ones may be legalised only if the public authority responsible for the management of that building has issued a confirmation that it has been built in accordance with the specific conditions laid down by that body under specific rules in the procedure of issuing a local permit or a decision on the conditions of construction. So there's so-called. the conditional legalisation of buildings which are only possible after the public legal authority which manages this area under the jurisdiction of a specific regulation gives special conditions for such buildings, and hence the same conditions that it would give in the process of issuing a local permit, i.e. building conditions solutions. This law divided the building according to its demand into four groups, and defined four groups in relation to the documentation needed to be submitted to the four groups. It also defined the way in which parties participate in the proceedings, defined who the parties are in the process and said that the legalisation of the buildings is only interrupted in cases where there is a litigation in terms of ownership. This means that in these cases the building is not, so the request is not rejected but the whole procedure is terminated until the court dispute is resolved. Similarly, a discussion on the subject of work to be done by the geodetic and elaborate for building law has been restarted, and is an integral part of the design that serves to enroll that building in the catastro. So it's not about double payment, it's not about repayment, it's about this elaborate that's going to be used to get a solution to the state of play, it's about to be a lab that's going to become part of the building's enrollment lab. Similarly, what is important to stress is that all the documentation that has been submitted today, all the documentation that has been made in accordance with the current law, which is much more complicated than what has been proposed by this law, will be able to serve to act in accordance with this law. For the end, I would go back to the fourth group, or fourth category. The fourth category of buildings that we allow legalization is so called. Auxiliary buildings. These auxiliary buildings are a special category, special categories are for the following reason. The condition is that they are located on a formed building particle, the condition that the building building on that building particle is legal, regardless of which purpose is residential or business, and if then we have an auxiliary building of up to 50 m2 with a one-time fee without paying the municipal contribution, without paying the water contribution, with a one-time fee which will be said in the regulation that building is legalised. So it's about garages, auxiliaries, not to tell pigs, chickens, where rural economies, which become a solution to the state of play, but the first and basic condition is that the existing building particle and that the existing building on it is legally based on a building permit or act that was valid at the time that this building was built. So that's the fourth category for the simple reason that once we've analyzed the space we've done, we've determined that about 70% of the illegal buildings in the space of that character. Therefore, in one simple way there must be a building in space, it must be recorded on... and these buildings up to 50 m2, an auxiliary building, provided that the particle is legalized by this law. Here I think I've been through the basics. For the end, I wouldn't want her to stay in the dilemma, which means legalizing 100 meters from the coast line. So on several occasions the Barcelona Convention was mentioned. Following the 2008 Barcelona Convention, a Protocol on coastal management was signed in Madrid. Croatia was a signator of the protocol, Croatia did not ratify the protocol, but was accepted by the European Union, more than five countries in the Mediterranean, and therefore we are under its obligation. When a decision was made at all whether it was possible and how to make legalisation 100 meters possible, then we carefully and carefully consulted the protocol. The protocol says that the Member States need to regulate their national legislation, i.e. the construction ban within 100 m, but it is about new construction, so it is about something we are planning but it also says that Member States need to compare the existing found construction that is defined in 100 m and see what is with it. So when there was a decision at all what to do with those 30, 40 thousand buildings that were built in 100 meters then we absolutely consulted the Protocol on coastal management of the Mediterranean and we also did certain consultations with people involved in the whole process and it was said that any legislation can through its laws, but it is important that the laws are at national level, to be defined and how they will do with the existing ones found, regardless of whether they are legal or illegal buildings and construction in 100 m. I think that I am on the basic things that have been explained here, yet once again, and here is this proposal, the final proposal of the law that we have submitted in the follow-up procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12848	I thank the Deputy Minister. We have a correction to the incorrect quote, Zoran Vinkovic. Here's my colleague Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12849	Thank you. I'm correcting an incorrect quote, and before that, let's let the pigs and chickens go so the auxiliary buildings don't have pool villas. But I am correcting exactly what is related to Article 22. It's not true what the deputy minister said because the law says that the local self-government unit will not allow for a year and have that opportunity. This is in the law where it definitely writes a solution to determine the municipal contribution and water contribution, a delay in the payment of the contribution, or a delay in the start of its payment in the event of payment, is granted for one year from the date of execution of the solution if requested by the applicant or the owner of the building. Whoever asks local self-government in this case and that means directly that whoever goes legally builds has to pay for the first war communal contribution if it's good..., if it's not paid at once will. And the one who legalizes his law allows him, so by law you interfere with the jurisdiction of local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12850	Thank you, colleague Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12851	And I wish you'd answered what's going on with the possibility of relief. And the last thing, and it connects to all local self-government units, I don't know how many states...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12852	You're done with your colleague Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12853	The state gets tired of this 50%.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12854	You're done. Thank you. .../The Intruder doesn't understand. We're done arguing. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12855	Final draft law on the treatment of illegally built buildings, second reading, PZ No. 95, the debate on the text of the law is over. The bench is divided into a review of the amendments. I would like to ask the Deputy Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning Mrs Anka Mrak-Taritash now to show herself about the proposed amendments. First, the amendment of Parliament of Ruža Tomasic to Article 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12856	It is not accepted since the amendment in question has changed the essence of the law as it proposes the introduction of studies and solutions on the temporary retention of illegally built buildings.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12857	Thank you very much. I'm asking the amendment promoter to manifest himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12858	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The proposed concepts and, in accordance with their actions, the law is simply incomplete and incomplete and subject to malfeasance. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12859	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 2 to Article 5 of the same proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12860	It is not accepted for the simple reason that it would not be possible to legalise buildings that were built against the plan at all, and that was the purpose of the whole law to enable legalisation and these buildings.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12861	Thank you very much. Ms. Ruza Tomasic, the amendment promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12862	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, we are the same for legalization but not under any circumstances and not all buildings. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12863	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 4. The SDP representative's club shall be referred to in Article 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12864	There's another amendment to Mrs. Rose Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12865	Excuse me. Amendment of the 3rd Parliament of Ruža Tomasic to Article 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12866	It is not accepted because this law allows legalisation in a 100-metre area. It's explained on several occasions what it's about. So a 100-metre area from the coastal line. In this way, those who are there would be in an unequal position. It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12867	Please, Mrs. Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12868	And here we are, since we are proposing to draw up recovery plans, not legislation by applying laws directly in case of building buildings contrary to plan. The categories referred to in Article 6 should then be linked to the development of a recovery plan, not to the issuing of a retention solution. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12869	Who is Mrs. Ruza Tomasic's amendment that the government does not accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 4. The SDP representative's club shall be referred to in Article 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12870	It's acceptable, but it'll be nomotechnically incorporated into the law. We suggest that it be unambiguously incorporated into the law as Amendment 5, which will also be accepted in such a way as to be incorporated into the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12871	Does the applicant's representative accept this explanation? So the amendment was accepted in changed form. Amendment 5. HNS representative's club on Article 6?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12872	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12873	Accepted. It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 6 from your list of representatives of Walter Bolunčić has been withdrawn. Amendment 7. SDP and HNS representatives' clubs, as referred to in Article 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12874	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12875	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment of the 8th Parliament of Ruža Tomasic to Article 7?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12876	It is not accepted because the word is thus what a certain conditional legalisation is proposed. It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12877	Proposer of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12878	I said before, I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12879	Who is Mrs. Ruza Tomasic's amendment that the government does not accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of the 9th Representative, Ruža Tomasic, to Article 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12880	It is not accepted because it again proposes a temporary solution to the retention of illegally built buildings.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12881	Proposers of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12882	In addition, Article 8 requires the proposed amendment in Article 3 by introducing the concept of a temporary solution for the resolution of social and economic cases of illegal construction. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12883	Who is Mrs. Ruza Tomasic's amendment that the government does not accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 10 of the same applicant to Article 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12884	It is not accepted for reasons because, therefore, the re-installation of a solution to temporarily illegally built buildings is because the recovery projects or everything else that has been proposed have not been incorporated into the law. Then this can't be the same anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12885	Proposer of the amendment, MP Ruza Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12886	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12887	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 11 of the same applicant to Article 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12888	It is not accepted for the reasons why four groups of buildings are clearly structured which are necessary for them and in this way the whole mess in that structure has been introduced and it would not be possible to implement the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12889	Proposer of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12890	Mr Vice-President, issuing a statement on meeting the essential requirements of mechanical resistance and stability is not possible without additional, as a rule of expensive testing, and authorised engineers will be under investor pressure to issue a statement based on an assessment that puts them in an unfavourable position. If it asks for additional price surveys, it will rise and be blamed for the collection of legislation. It is therefore considered that if the party itself does not have credible evidence from the time of the construction to issue an assessment declaration. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12891	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment of the 12th Parliament of Ruža Tomasic to Article 18a.?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12892	It is not accepted, since it is again a matter of temporary detention of illegally built buildings for a specific category of population.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12893	Proposer of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12894	I'm not gonna waste my time explaining, I'm just asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12895	Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 13. HNS representative's club on Article 23?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12896	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12897	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment number 14. The Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12898	It's unacceptable. The applicant shall remain with the provision of Article 31 using 20% of the compensation exclusively for the purpose of administrative law enforcement bodies, 30% for local self-government units in the area where this is due to the devastation and 50% of the state budget for the implementation of this law and the resolution of space.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12899	Representative of the board, are you withdrawing the amendment or requesting a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12900	I couldn't withdraw the amendment since it was voted by the board, so I don't have to withdraw that mandate on behalf of the board, so I would ask the vote, because it's because it's that we've estimated that it's fairer to share that fee on equal terms than 50% of the state, 30% of the city, 20% of the county for the simple reason why that division didn't find a foothold in some formula to say, who's working in that process, so we thought it was a third fair thing so that I would beg the vote on behalf of the Committee of Amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12901	Who's in favor of an amendment to a board that the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much, Madam Deputy Minister. We move on to the Final Bill on dealing with illegally built buildings, second reading, P.Z. No. 95. The debate on the text of the law is over. The bench is divided into a review of the amendments. I'm calling the Deputy Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning. I'm sorry, we just did this. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. I find that the law has been passed by 85 votes for and 50 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12902	We move on to - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Law on socially encouraged housing, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 122. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. You received the reports at the session. Does the Proposer want a representative? Deputy Minister, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12903	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This is about the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Encouragement. It is a law passed by the Croatian Parliament on 30 November 2001. Since then, the law has experienced several changes and additions. However, with these changes and additions it has been continuously spent in recent years, however, with significantly reduced intensity. Since 2002, a total of 5 and a half thousand apartments of total investment value have been built around 2 and a half billion kuna. These figures absolutely show about a POS model that is feasible, justified and financially sustainable. To date, POS has included 72 cities and municipalities. A non-profit state agency APN participates in the implementation of POS and four cities have also established their promotional housing agencies. It's about Rijeka, Dubrovnik, Koprivnica and Varazdin. What is the theme of these changes and additions? The theme of these changes and additions is to introduce specific programs so-called POS plus, and the word is to enable the sale of newly built apartments on the market. Therefore, the POS programme also allows the fact that we have a number of newly built, unsold apartments on the market, that they can be included in this programme. Then the possibility, which was also in the basic law of 2001, is that at one hour, changes and additions were put out of effect, which is that you are a direct construction company that has the property possible without a public tender and offers apartments to the agency and is therefore possible to offer construction land and construction at the same time. Then, the ban on alienation is lifted within 10 years. What's this about? Now the law has been, is a provision that says that since 10 years is a ban on alienating such apartments. What we need to know is that so far, 21% of these apartments have been paid up to now. These provisions are made possible by amending and supplementing it when the apartment is paid prematurely, so all that should be paid off so that it can also be alienated from such an apartment. Similarly, this law, therefore, amends and complements the more detailed issue of financing the construction and sale of garages and parking garages, if the construction of such sites, i.e. such operations in space, is foreseen by a spatial plan. What is important to say is that this law also introduces a single newspaper, which is the possibility of making a pre-contract with a 5% corporal of the intended sale price, because in this way the state also has a certain guarantee that all those interested in buying apartments under this POS project will indeed buy such apartments. These are the important things that are regulated by this amendment and by supplementing the law. The reason for the emergency procedure is this specific programme which allows and allows the housing that exists on the market to be purchased by the state and put into the POS programme as an incentive programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12904	Thank you, Deputy Minister. Do any of the rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Vedran Babic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12905	Thank you. Dear Vice President, Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a new amendment to the Law on Social Encouragement Building. This law came into force for the first time in late 2001, and with its positive effects it has taken place to date, unfortunately, in a significantly reduced intensity. The Socially Encouraged Apartment Act from 2002 to today built nearly 5500 apartments of total investment value of about 2 and a half billion kuna. Today, about 270 more apartments are under construction and 200 of them are being prepared. These figures tell us that the POS model is feasible, sustainable, financially justified, accepted by all participants, and numerous home and world awards awarded to designers for architectural urban solutions confirms that we have received a very quality apartment that belongs to the very top of European and world architecture. However, over the past few years, the realisation of POS has been significantly slowed down, reflecting the current situation in the economy, thus also in the construction sector, or in the housing sector. The results of the recession and our modern unwillingness to respond are a huge drop in construction activities that have led to liquidity, bankruptcy, job cuts in construction companies, significant reduction in housing sales, halting start-up investments and inability to enter new, more stringent lending conditions, fear of borrowing, etc. etc. In short. Today, some data suggest that there are unsold from 6 to 9000 apartments whose value is estimated at a billion euros. The new amendment and the addition of the Law on Social Encouragement of Legal Solutions is in line with the current situation in the economy and the market, and primarily refers to the simplification of the sale of apartments already built that have been unsold for months and years, and to the non-intention of the construction of new apartments itself. Also,... They also include specific programmes which are made possible by this amendment to the law and relate to the launch of the sale of apartments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The objectives of the specific programme will be to attract the funds of business banks, encourage housing customers, encourage investors to take action, and bring the prices of apartments into line with customer opportunities. In addition to more detailed regulation of issues for building and selling garages, i.e. garage and parking spaces, this amendment and the addition of the law enables construction companies to solve the problem of building land. It clearly defines the highest selling price of the apartment, determines the order of the championship on the purchase of the apartment, and enables construction without a public tender if all parameters set by this law are met, and relate to safe sale of the apartment, limited price of the same, guaranteed guarantees etc. By simplifying some solutions, i.e. by removing restrictions and opening new opportunities for amendments and additions to the Law on socially encouraged housing, which I have previously stated will contribute to the preservation and increase of jobs in construction in the first place due to the increase in the volume of jobs on the building market and will contribute to the investment cycle, i.e. to the exit of the economy from recession. In short, it will help the construction sector most affected by this crisis. In order not to extend and follow the SDP, the SDP supports the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on socially encouraged housing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12906	Thanks, buddy. On behalf of HNS Natalija Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12907	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the esteemed deputy minister with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club believes that it is extremely important that this law today is on our benches and that otherwise very well imagined and in most cases also a realistic model of encouraged housing will be modified by this law and adapted to the emerging conditions primarily on the real estate market. In 2001, the Law on socially encouraged housing developed by the then Ministry of Public Works, Reconstruction and Construction proved to be a very successful model of what the figures, as the deputy minister has already said, first of all. So out of the 5.5 thousand apartments made total investment value 2.5 billion kuna, and of course this post programme was applied to 72 municipalities, or the city. The experiences of cities, primarily those that set up non-profit city agencies as part of this programme, which are Varazdin, Rijeka, Koprivnica and Dubrovnik, and in order to realise exactly the post-programme are extremely positive and cities have developed several models of applicationable precisely to their area. The programme began as a pilot project in Varazdin where it has been fully implemented, and that the programme has been fully affected by young families and data that the average age of applicants was 34 years, and the professional cook was on average above the higher. In addition, for the insurance of financial resources customers are allowed to borrow except in 5 banks and in 2 residential savings banks, which is very important because this also includes housing incentives. On the other hand, Koprivnica came out with a project of high-energy buildings, so-called high energy classes. "sparagus houses" in which up to 50% lower than in classical construction, and at the price of squares of only 980 euros per metre square metre. But data and figures also show that the recent years have seen a decline in the implementation of the socially encouraged housing programme, which is of course the most affected by the economic crisis. There has also been a major decline in construction activities, individence, stagnation in the scope of construction works, bankruptcy of companies etc. As a consequence of the above, there is a drastic reduction or almost a total freeze in the sale of apartments. There has been a stalemate in the realization of start-up projects and abandonment of new investments. Citizens find it very difficult to decide on borrowings, and there are banks that have certainly strengthened the conditions for obtaining credit. This law, of course, will not solve these problems, but what is necessary are the changes that will still open up wider opportunities to encourage housing, intensify the building of apartments and facilitate their sale. Amendments to this law have been initiated by all agencies since 2010 but the initiative has not been adopted. In this regard, agencies have already recognised and warned about the impact of the crisis and proposed a new approach to the post. The proposal is now not touching the basic model of the post, proposing the possibility of encouraging the construction and sale of newly built apartments that are on the market and through specific programmes. The main objective of the programme is to encourage the sale of apartments that stand empty on the market, wait for buyers and represent frozen capital. The objective of these changes and additions is to ensure the conditions for the creation of a programme that will allow for more favourable conditions of financing on the capital market, attract the assets of business banks, encourage the purchasers of apartments and encourage investors to action, but of course also to bring prices into line with market conditions, i.e. with customer opportunities. However, the sale of those apartments will introduce certain funds in the housing sector, which should, of course, contribute to better liquidity and to the payment of eligible claims. It should also ensure the inflow of fresh capital to complete the old and start new investment projects. Of course, a larger flow of funds into the state budget would be ensured. Now maybe just a brief analysis of the articles. Therefore, Article 1(2) increases the possibility of funding from the Republic of Croatia to 45% of the Ethlon price, allows units of local self-government, i.e. their agencies to secure land and infrastructure with connections without engaging their budgets, which motivates the implementation of the programme in units of local self-government that have not been included in the programme so far. For the purposes of Article 1(3), a suggestion may be that the Ethlon construction price as a basic information on the determination of the price of the apartment by the programme would also be directed to establish the energy class of the building where investors, projects and contractors would be forced to use energy efficiency. It is true that there are no exact data that would change the value of ethlons in relation to classical design and construction, but that can naturally be applied foreign experiences. Furthermore, Article 10(2) and (3) is important where the possibility of a contract with payment of a corporal is introduced, which was also referred to by the Deputy Minister. This is a complete innovation in the programme and represents a particularly important element in the implementation of the programme especially in the part of the security of the sale of apartments. In practice, this provision allows the adoption of a specific list for specific locations of objects with high probability of purchase, since the buyer invests his money in the preparation of the site. In this case, it is particularly important that the intended time-limit of completion can be achieved at the location, i.e. the immigration of the facility, which actually means that a project confirmation can be concluded within the shortest time limits, and the construction of infrastructure and connections is monitored by the construction of the facility. The proposed text in Article 11 reduces the costs of applying for the purchase of an apartment and gives security to applicants that they will be included in the list. According to the knowledge in the practice of most cities, it was handled in a way that the purchasers of the apartments provided the necessary documentation when pre-contracting was signed, and for the documentation for the establishment of the list of costs were indeed minimal. It is also important to note, however, that Article 12 of the introduction of paragraph 4 enables leases, i.e. leases, to open that possibility. This extends the activities of the agencies and the implementation of the programme is adapted to the economic conditions of the citizens. Here, again, I would like to highlight the example of Varazdin where a total of 1529 applications have been submitted. Of these, 433 applicants bought an apartment, 50 signed pre-contracts for the purchase of apartments that were under construction, 246 gave up their purchase, and 800 wanted to keep their position on the purchase list, or are willing to enter into a rental relationship because at this point they do not have a credit rating even though they are employed. Therefore, after the adoption of the programme by the City Council and of course the approval of the Management Board of the Agency, an apartment rental model with the possibility of purchase was used by the institution implementing the post programmes in Varazdin. The model has proved to be highly accepted, and in addition to applicants on the list, there is the interest of other citizens, so we believe that this provision significantly extends the possibility of living care of citizens and that for them a very acceptable model. We are also very important to assess the erasure of the ban on the availability of customers who have already signed the contracts, moved into the apartment and started paying off loans and, from a number of objective circumstances, were no longer able to pay off loans or had to give up the purchase of the apartment. Namely, this provision was introduced in 2004 with the intention to prevent possible abuses proved unsustainable because we have to tell the turbulent situations in which our citizens are present today, which is to stay out of work, to remain without financial resources so that they can pay off the loans in office and these are actually given the opportunity to get out of this situation. It's final. This law removes unnecessary restrictions, procedural and administrative obstacles and introduces new programmes and models for the application of housing incentives in emerging market conditions and will therefore absolutely support the adoption of this law by the HNS Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12908	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club Branko Vukšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12909	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected Deputy Minister and Associates. We will support, Croatian Labour Party but not absolutely we will only support. Without a doubt, one of the best moves is one of the best laws, the best incentive for Croatian economy and Croatian citizens was the Law on Encouragement of the 2000 year old. In early 2000, young couples saw light at the end of the tunnel. They were given the opportunity to give some less money with more favourable loans whose more favourable effects were killed by banks and the government that allowed banks to use the foreign exchange clause, so young families throughout Croatia had the hope of being able to secure and afford such a desired roof over their own head. In the 10 years that we practice encouraging housing, the popular POS law has experienced several changes. Unfortunately, because of the crisis, but sometimes the low-priced and good housing that could be purchased under more favourable conditions than those that have been built just because of the higher profit. In 10 years, it has been built as part of the encouraging construction, as reported in the draft law of 5.5 thousand apartments totalling 2.5 billion kuna. At this point, 300 more apartments are built according to the POS model. So the encouraging building of the apartments came to life. It is shown well and in practice, and our biggest pain in Croatia is bad practice. Entrepreneurs earned, workers worked, and 5.5 thousand Croatian families realized one of the most beautiful dreams. Should we continue to stimulate encouraging building or cheaper buying apartments? Of course you should and should do them for a number of reasons. One of the most important is to sell at least part of the built apartments waiting for customers or more favourable times. A large part of those 9,000 or 10,000 unsold apartments has been waiting for years for buyers. Investors miraculously have so much money that they can wait for years and I guess for decades for economic recovery and can wait for the greater purchasing power of Croatian citizens. A good part of these investors certainly do not live on building and selling apartments because if they lived, these apartments would already be sold. However, regardless of whether it is pure speculation or business people who have been petrified by the conversion of sales of these apartments will be provided at least in the part of the construction industry that will start a new investment cycle. By selling apartments, i.e. by defreezing capital frozen in concrete, how beautifully it stands in the light of the law and in the state register there will be some more money. The intention of this law, therefore, to get out of stockings but from banks as much money as possible and to put it into circulation and push it into production, most importantly. And that is why these amendments to the Law on Encouragement Housebuilding are very acceptable and very welcome. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12910	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12911	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is the fact that the first Law on Social Encouragement of the Croatian Parliament adopted on November 30th 2001 that it came into force on December 19th 2001, as the Vice President of the Parliament said, and one modest mayor of one city was among the first to go into social promotional housing and the building was completed in 2002. I think it's the city of Djakovo so someone doesn't think it's another town. So, the HDSSB club will support this law by considering it as good primarily because this applies I would not say to 9,000 built and unsold apartments but to far more residential units since here in the city of Djakovo there are about 400 built residential apartments and unsold apartments that are certainly waiting for this model. What we will advocate, therefore, is that this is also in the Constitution and what may have been the lack of current laws that all citizens must be equal before the law and we are now proposing that regardless of the age structure, everyone can enter the programme. And I believe that along with this greater involvement of the state, it will be far more effective to implement this law, or unrelated to whether new dwellings will be built now, but in what I doubt we have a large number of housing units. There are certain local environments that didn't have that much intensity of construction, but I'm saying this could start selling built-in apartments. I have doubts that this will trigger the construction of new housing units, but this is already a big step if these housing units that have already been built find their owner. It is certainly here, therefore, as one of the first mayors and cities to enter in 2001, so immediately after the entry into force of this law that has entered into the programme of encouraging housing, I would also like to further warn the fact that today many units of local self-government have in mind the height of their budgets that they are not even allowed to enter these programmes because at this point, for a long time, public contributions and the value of property, the value of municipal infrastructure, etc., and so on. So to cut the story short, we will support this law, but we believe that for better reasons and for the possibility of all units of local self-government it is necessary to change the Law itself on the financing of local self-government. And, Mr. Vice President, you will allow me to go back a little bit to this previous law that can also have to do with the Law on Socially Encouraged Apartmentry, because there are also buildings, more residential buildings built without a building permit, which also have a few dozen apartments and which, if the entire legalisation process of illegally built buildings is passed, could probably also enter into the amendments and additions of the Law on socially encouraged housing. So I suggest that the Ministry of Construction read the article 22 carefully and not interfere in the jurisdiction of local self-government, because it defines by law a one-year delay in payment for illegally built buildings and the payment of municipal contributions. It's not compensation for legalising illegally built buildings, it's just a communal contribution. I don't care about the water contribution because he's the income of the state and nobody in this country is clear what's being financed from that water contribution...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12912	Come back to that, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12913	I'm back on the subject, it's certainly Mr. Vice President related to encouraged housing, and as mayor, you should know that, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12914	But we're discussing encouraged housing.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12915	And now I will very, very soon. Well, that's about, look, you take away my word, time goes, and I wanted to be expedient. So, I remind the ministry once again not to enter the jurisdiction of the local self-government unit because it will happen very quickly that everyone will go illegally, that those who are looking for a building permit with the right to ask themselves whether we are fools, whether we are idiots, whether we are idiots, do not want to offend anyone because we have to pay a municipal contribution at once or if they have a good local sheriff, a powerful man named Mayor or mayor, and will give him the opportunity to pay that communal contribution in wars like I'm a good mayor and it's a humble mayor, Mr. Leco. Or I would say to the ministry with this kind of crazy, and with one very bad agreement of these words, it would allow those who illegally built buildings to postpone payment for a year. And then given the experience of these 12 years, they'll get a building permit, sell real estate, and they'll pay a utility contribution, as well as a water contribution never. This must be clear to you because you will no longer have the opportunity to collect any water contribution, no compensation, no communal contribution. Thank you. Read Article 42 that I do not have to give a constitutionality assessment for one single sentence that has nothing to do with the functioning of local self-government and the Law on Local Self-Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12916	Thanks, buddy. Next on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club Josip Boris. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12917	Dear Vice President, distinguished deputies with associates, colleagues and fellow parliamentary deputies. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Encouragement, another law for which the Government proposes the adoption of an emergency procedure by proposing changes and additions which seriously affect the existing system of socially encouraged housing and also introduces into this law specific programmes of construction and sale of newly built apartments on the market without a clear definition of what it is actually about. The proposed amendments and additions towards the implementation of specific programmes of this law, we have already had the opportunity to see in 2010 when the Club of Representatives of the HNS proposed amendments and additions to the Law on socially encouraged housing exactly the same content. Both this proposal and this now, the use of public funds is directed towards the implementation of specific programmes which are spoken only at the principle level. The proposed supplement is not visible in the way in which the sale would be encouraged but is left to be regulated by a specific programme. The proposed amended Article 30a does not make it clear that the content of those specific programmes is necessary to define, from the point of view, all the conditions, the way of sale, the height of the incentives and the like, from the point of view of implementation. We point out that the programme is not a regulation, and in this regard we are talking about the sublimeness of the proposed supplement. Furthermore, on the basis of the submitted supplement i.e. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on socially encouraged housing would create the possibility of using public funds to buy apartments on the market that are not built by a system of encouraging housing by public funds, and therefore cannot support the installation of this solution into a law originally offered by a socially justified model of sale of apartments with rural payment. It is noted that the issue of encouraging the sale of apartments in order to overcome the adverse situation in the housing is governed by the Subsidisation Act and the state guarantee of housing loans, etc. It's a bamich model. It's a law that in a very short time of implementation has received extraordinary success. For the illustration, we state that the first requirements for the subsidisation of loans were received on 2 May 2011 when the subsidisation of residential loans from the Croatian budget started, and 1454 was subsidized in 2011, and 821 housing credits have been subsidized this year. It is therefore a total of 2275 subsidized housing loans. Let us consider these data in relation to the POS data presented by the Government in the light of this bill. The system of socially encouraged housing has been implemented since 2001, and a total of 5500 apartments of total investment value of 2 and a half billion kuna have been built since 2002, including garages, garage and parking spaces. According to the government's data, he is currently building 270 more apartments, and in the phase of preparation for the construction of about 200 apartments, part of the family home programme has never even been more serious about implementation. The total is therefore 5 and a half thousand apartments built according to the POS model since 2002, i.e. on average 550 apartments per year. On the other hand, the current subsidisation model has achieved subsidisation of housing loans for 2275 dwellings over a period of all year and a few days. So since May 2011. We believe that these indicators sufficiently illustrate the advantages of the housing lending model compared to the POS that has been spent in significantly reduced intensity in recent years. Therefore, the HDZ Representatives Club cannot accept this government insistence to change the existing POS model by introducing old missing solutions without, on the other hand, supporting the greater scope of the implementation of the Subsidisation Act and the State Guarantee of Residential Credits. When we talk about introducing old, missing legal solutions here, we primarily think about Article 8 of the amendment, which adds Article 18 of the Law, which unfortunately is reintroduced into the law. The provisions of this Article lay down the conditions under which construction can be agreed without public competition. A legal or natural person authorised for construction works may offer the Agency building land owned and designated project documentation for that location, and the construction of apartments, or buildings on that land, in which case the Agency may conclude a contract with that person on construction directly without public competition under certain conditions. One of these conditions is that the land price is not higher than 20% of the Ethlon price of building a total useful area of dwellings in a building to be built on that land, and that the offered price of construction per meter of a square useful area is not higher than the Ethlon price of construction. However, there is no mechanism here for this provision not to be abused and negotiated at a maximum price. In fact, experience has shown a number of negativity of such legal solutions based on which companies that own their land can build without a public tender. For example, from 2002 to the end of 2003 when 906 apartments were built, over 600 apartments were not sold, and of these 600 were contracted without competition over 50% of the companies that built on their land and at maximum prices. So, on the one hand, everything was arranged at the maximum possible price, and on the other hand there were no customers for those same apartments. It is not necessary in particular to point out that such a provision avoids the Public Procurement Act in part of the selection of contractors. This enables building not on the most favourable but on the one with the building land owned by the law with no safeguard mechanism not to be built at the highest price. We estimate that these will help direct state resources to certain companies. Besides, why isn't it going according to the Public Private Partnership Act that we discussed here last week, and which I also talked about in some way in terms of POS. We believe that if it already insists on this bar, a provision should be introduced that if customers and non-purchasing apartments must be purchased by a contractor who at the expense of his land has been given the opportunity to build with state resources. Furthermore, we would also like to refer to an increase in the first part of the payment of the payment of the bank's credit assets on behalf of the approved loan from 20 to 29 years. Since in the second part of the debt settlement, the customer pays the public and other funds belonging to the Republic of Croatia or to the local self-government unit. The question arises as to the justification of the extension of that deadline from the point of view of concern for the resources of the state budget, i.e. the budget of the units of local self-government, which will be achieved with a higher delay of 9 years. Article 14 is deleted from the ban on alienation, i.e. real-legal housing within 10 years of the date of conclusion of the buy-in contract. However, the intensity of this law was not to allow public funds to be traded in a way that was conveniently bought and sold immediately. Keeping in mind the importance of encouraging the construction sector by selling built and not selling apartments, as well as enabling citizens to buy apartments under favourable credit conditions. Finally, I call once again on the Government of the Republic of Croatia to decide on additional funding to subsidise housing loans to meet the demand for currently the most favourable loans on the real estate market for the purchase of the apartment. You've already done it once by means of a redundancies. I think there is still room that the Government of the Republic of Croatia should do that. From what I've said, the HDZ Representatives' Club will not support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12918	Thank you, too. We have one correction to the incorrect quote, Natalija Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12919	Well, here's what I would do to correct the incorrect allegations of a respected colleague, Boric, that this law does not show how to improve the sale of apartments. In fact, this law, i.e. amendments and additions to the law, provides a whole series of measures and frameworks that will absolutely improve the sale of dwellings. And it was clear to everyone who was arguing on behalf of the clubs in front of you. And if you recognized the importance when the HNS suggested this as you yourself said in 2010 you probably wouldn't have so many unsold apartments now, but as you didn't recognize the crisis, you didn't recognize the necessity of making these amendments and supplementing the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12920	Thank you. That's how we exhausted the list of people reported for discussion. I'd like to ask Mrs. Dark-Taritash, Deputy Minister, for a moment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12921	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It is therefore a proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on socially encouraged housing, where this amendment is primarily an amendment and addition to allow for the realisation of specific programmes. That's the basic and key reason. A series of things this law has improved so that the business could move on. And when it comes to the possibility of buying land and building a directly construction company, then I think it is important to stress that the first condition is that the agency should assess that there is an interest in buying, or selling apartments in the building, that this interest is certain or in a certain way secured. So that's the first condition that you even get into such an activity. We appreciate that it is a law that will enable fast and operational organisation of the post and post plus. One amendment was and this amendment is absolutely government-accepted and here is the final proposal of the law for further procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12922	Thank you, Deputy Minister. I'm closing the debate. This is what we're done for today. Tomorrow we start at 11.00 with the final proposal of the Law on criteria for participation in tripartite bodies and representativeness for collective bargaining, second reading, P.Z. No. 96.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-10-0.u12923	We move to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Social Encouragement, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z. No. 122. The debate is closed. The proposer's representative adopted amendments to the Legislative Committee which became an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. I find that the law has been passed by 86 votes to 36 against and 12 abstentions.
