ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11026	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, colleagues and colleagues. We're going back to work. We will bring together a discussion on two points of the agenda. These are - Proposals for an annual report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2011 and - Report on the annual report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2011, the first document was submitted by the Government, so this is the State Budget Implementation Report, and Article 176 applies in the debate. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, the Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development and the Committee on the Economy. You received the reports at the session. I ask if the proposaler's representative would like to further explain the proposal. Yeah. Deputy Minister of Finance, respected Boris Lalovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11027	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We have before us a proposal to implement the Annual Budget for 2011. In short, we will present the state of income and expenditure and execution deficits for 2011. The total revenues of the state budget consisting of the revenues of business and proceeds from the sale of non-financial assets in 2011 amounted to HRK 107.4 billion, which is planned at the level of the planned one, but is nevertheless a decline of 0.3% or 368 million compared to the execution in 2010. The operating income accounts for 99.7% of the total revenue of the state budget, and in their structure, the most significant item is the tax revenue of 57.1%) and the following revenues from the contribution of 36.1%), and the two income groups account for 93.2% of the operating income, while the rest relates to aid and income from assets, revenues from administrative fees and revenues on special taxes and other revenues. Tax revenues in 2011 were achieved at a rate of 61.1 billion kuna and 1.2% respectively compared to 2010. The most significant tax revenue is VAT revenue, which in 2011 at the level of the previous year amounts to 37.7 billion kuna or 35.2% of business income. The second most significant tax revenue is the revenue from excise duties and special taxes that amounted to $11.2 billion in 2011 or 10.4% of the operating income. In the excise structure, the most significant excise duties are oil and oil derivatives and tobacco products, which together make up 9.4 billion kuna or 84.3% of total excise duties and special taxes. From the 2011 profit tax, 7.3 billion kuna was paid, which is primarily due to the increase in bank profits during 2010. The income from income tax in 2011 was generated at 1.3 billion kuna, up from 8.8% compared to 2010. The annual increase in income tax revenues despite unfavourable labour market developments resulted in an amended supplement to the Income Tax Act in July 2010. In that case, the amendments to the laws have changed the tax rates of income tax and the rates of application of tax rates, but tax exemptions, income tax, paid health services, life insurance premiums, housing costs and the like have been abolished. The tax breaks mentioned in the 2010 annual tax returns can only be used for the first six months, resulting in a reduction in tax returns by 23.1%, which is the result of increased budget revenues based on income tax. The second most significant group of operating incomes is the revenue from the contributions collected in the amount of HRK 38.6 billion, down from 0.3% compared to 2010. Last year, 19.1 billion kuna contributions for pension insurance and 17.7 billion kuna were paid for health and 1.8 billion kuna employment. The proceeds from the assets consist of revenue from financial assets, income from non-financial assets, interest on loans, and during 2011, they were collected at an amount of 2.1 billion kuna, which is 2.7% less than the previous year. The collected revenue from the financial assets amounted to kuna 1.1 billion and was achieved mostly from dividends and profits from state-owned companies, which certainly had a negative impact on the investment process of these companies during 2011. Years. Income from administrative fees and according to special regulations has been achieved in the amount of $ 3.8 billion, which accounts for an annual growth of 6.9%. In short, we'll give you an expense review. The total expenditure of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2011 was made in the amount of kuna 121.4 billion, which is 0.7% less than planned compared to 2010. The expenditures are lower by about 400 million kuna. The staff expenditure in 2011 is higher by 2.1% or about half a billion kuna compared to 2010, with 22.8 billion kuna and accounted for 18.8% of total expenditure. Material expenditures were made totalling 8.7 billion kuna and increased by 6 and a half percent compared to the execution of 2010 or about half a billion kuna. Subsidies in 2011 were allocated 6.6 billion kuna, which is reached in 2010. It's worth 3.7 billion kuna from agriculture. Compensation for citizens and households was made in 2011 amounting to €64.7 billion. So, a total of about 53.3% in total expenditure, which is consistent with the planned funding compared to 2010 is a decrease of around 200 million kuna. The majority of the expenditure in this group refers to pensions and pension incomes of HRK 34.9 billion, and benefits in the health care and social care system of HRK 19.9 billion. The total deficit of the State budget in 2011 was reached at 14 billion kuna, which is 4.1% of GDP. The total deficit of the consolidated general government in 2011 was reached at 14.8 billion kuna or at 4.3% of GDP level. One note. If the total deficit in the state budget in 14 billion kuna were added to the following non-executive commitments in 2011 and earlier years totalling 2.2 billion kuna in terms of 952 million kuna in agriculture, the shipyards 481 million kuna, according to the Financial Agency 339 million kuna, for the ship construction programme for Croatian ships 172 million kuna, according to the Catholic Church for about 230 million kuna. The deficit of the state budget was 16.2 billion kuna and 4.7% of GDP, respectively, and the lack of the general government would be 17 billion kuna and 5% of GDP respectively. In short, we will only give a review of the 2011 financing account. The total receipts from financial assets and borrowing in 2011 were made at an amount of €24.5 billion, which financed the expenditure on financial assets and loans and the lack of the state budget. In the structure of total receipts from financial assets and debts, the largest part is receipts from the issue of securities and that is 19.3 billion kuna, of which 13.3 billion kunas relate to bonds issued abroad and 6 billion kunas on bonds issued on the domestic capital market. The first show was realized in March 2011 on the foreign capital market of $1 and a half billion at interest of 6.375% annually, will reach 2021. Two bond emissions were issued in July. The first one was realised on the foreign capital market of 750m euros with a maturity in 2018 at an annual interest rate of 5.87. The second one was broadcast on the domestic capital market of 1 and a half billion kuna at an annual interest rate of 5.75 in 2016, and a domestic bond with a currency clause in kuna equivalent of 600m euros with an annual coupon of 6 and a half percent and a maturity of 2022. Liabilities are subject to foreign exchange obligations based on expenditure on financial assets and repayments of loans and other foreign exchange liabilities of the state budget in 2011. Receipts from borrowing were made in the amount of € 4.4 billion, from which loans and loans from international organisations, institutions and bodies of the European Union and foreign governments were received from 2.2 billion kuna. A 150m-euro loan for the World Bank's economic recovery policy with a 15-year repayment deadline and an interest rate of 2 and a half percent was withdrawn on 30 June 2011. The loan is granted by means of measures implemented under the Economic Recovery Programme. The disbursements, repayments and principalities of the loans given amounted to 818.5 million kuna. In 2011, expenditure on financial assets and loans amounts to 12.7 billion kuna, of which 8 and a half billion kunas relate to expenditure on payment of principals for issued securities. In March, the principal of the 750m-euro bond was paid off, and in September, the main bond for restructuring the economy in 1991, worth 2.4 billion kuna. Compared to the situation of 31.12.2010, the head of the vault records was reduced by 250 million kuna. The expenditure on loans was made in the amount of $1.8 billion, share expenditure, stakes in the capital amounted to €556 million. This appropriation is intended to cover: The repayment of the principal of loans and loans received from loans and other public institutions in the public sector amounts to HRK 133 million. A brief report on state guarantees, state-guarantee expenditure and a report on the use of the budget. In 2011, 21 state guarantees totalling 10.3 billion kuna were issued, of which 6.3 billion kuna was issued according to domestic financial institutions and 4 billion kuna towards international financial institutions, of which 2.8 billion kuna was issued in the direct jurisdiction of the Croatian Parliament and for which the Croatian Parliament passed special laws. Most of the guarantees issued relate to public undertakings and transport sectors, infrastructures such as HAC, Croatian roads, HZ groups totalling 9.4 billion kuna while 900 million kuna refers to guarantees issued in the shipbuilding sector. Individually, the largest amount of state guarantees was issued to Croatian highways amounting to 6.7 billion kuna or 65% of the total amount of guarantees issued. Half of that amount was to refinance existing liabilities. The planned budget stock in 2011 amounted to 238 million kuna, used in the amount of 176 million kuna through the delivery of funds to individual users, and 54 million kuna allocated to incompetent decisions through special account allocations. So in short, I've actually given you a technical presentation today, meaning the implementation of the 2011 budget. So these are the figures that are actually behind us and from the government's point of view wouldn't look too much at what it actually was, especially now that we're already preparing the 2013 budget. We must seriously prepare that the way in which these budgets were actually set, which we can also view as a political act, as a technical act, as a social and developmental one will actually respond whether we are successful or not successful in raising economic activity. This way in which it has been set is actually left to the citizens and to you parliamentary representatives to discuss whether it is part of whether they were set on the same criteria as they were actually supposed to be to encourage economic growth and the development of the country, and in further discussion we will actually get involved if necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11028	I thank the Deputy Minister. The report on the annual report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2011 shall be submitted by the State Audit Office, based on Article 6. The State Audit Office Act. And you took that material into the boxes, and the government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy and the Committee on the Economy. And you received those reports at the session. I'm asking if the motionor would like to give an additional explanation. Yeah. Dear Mr. Jozo Serdarusic, Deputy Chief State Auditor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11029	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed MPs and MPs. As mentioned before you is the report on the annual report on the implementation of the 2011 State Budget of the Republic of Croatia submitted by the State Audit Office to the Croatian Assembly within the deadline provided for, meaning by 1 June 2012. The objectives of the audit were to verify the functioning of the internal financial control system in the context of the planning and implementation of the state budget, to examine the organisation and management of the accounting of the state budget, to verify and compare the achievement of revenues and receipts and expenditures with the planned amounts, and to verify the borrowing and issuing of guarantees and the appropriations from the budget stock. And on the basis of this, these checks, express an opinion on the Annual Report on the implementation of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2011. Of course, the areas of review were identified and aligned with the objectives of the audit. The audit covers business processes organised under the Ministry of Finance in the State Treasury, which relate to the preparation, implementation of the budget, state accounting and cash and public debt management. When it comes to public debt, I would like to point out in particular that the audit covers and verified data relating to the debt of the state budget. Therefore, the total debt of the state budget without guarantees at the end of 2011 was recorded at 148.8 billion kuna. Of which the long-term debt is 120.9 billion and 19.9 billion kuna in the short term. From that, the internal debt is worth 90.3 billion kuna and the external 50.5 billion kuna. Together with guarantees paid on the burden of the state budget and the bonds, the debt amounted to HRK 150.6 billion, and counting guarantees and bonds as potential liabilities total debt at the end of 2011 amounted to HRK 202.7 billion, which increased the total debt of the state budget at the end of 2011 by 15.4 billion kuna or 12.3% compared to 2010. Compared to 2010, the total debt increased from 83.4% to 85.9%, while the short-term debt ratio was reduced. As I have already told the audit procedures, the accuracy of the data presented in the annual report and consistency in the application of the provisions of the laws and regulations governing budgetary relations, budgetary principles and rules has been checked. On the basis of these checks, the Office expressed its conditional opinion on the impact of the weaknesses identified in the management of the accounting of the state budget, the deficiencies in financial reporting and the irregularities in borrowing, the provision of guarantees and the use of budgetary supplies. All of this is described in the findings of this report in front of you, and the report is published on the offices and parliament's website. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11030	Thank you. I ask if the representatives of the board will take the floor? No, I don't. Then we move on to the debate. Clubs first. The time foreseen for discussion on behalf of the SDP club will be shared by the distinguished representative Dragica Zgrebec and Nadica Jelas.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11031	Thank you, Vice-President, Deputy Minister and Deputy Chief State Auditor with an associate, colleague and colleague. It is our view that the start of the crisis in 2008 did not take adequate measures for its resolution, nor did the budgetary policy change more significantly. On the contrary, it has long been denied that Croatia is in crisis, most of it stems from an unfavourable internal and economic structure, and they have also been late and have not yielded results. In the Croatian State budget, the problem is both income and expenditure. Incomes are low compared to budget spending, they are not even charged at high level, we talked about it yesterday, and it was little taken to suggest that these imbalances have already increased the deficit covered by borrowing, by extracting a low level of profits from state companies anyway and by part selling assets. The 2011 state budget was based on the following projections: planned revenues of 107.4 and expenditures of 122.3 billion kuna recorded a slight decline. The deficit was therefore planned at 14.9 billion or 4.3% of GDP, with GDP growth projected for 2011 at 1.5%. What important facts should ensure GDP growth and can be read from the 2011 State budget plan? These are economic promotion programmes, strengthening competitiveness, industrial development and restructuring, energy sector reform, increasing the efficiency of EU funds, promoting exports, regional development. And how were the planned funds used for these purposes in the state budget? So, for example. 23% have not been spent on economic promotion programmes and strengthening competitiveness, industrial development and restructuring. 47% of the planned funds have not been spent on reforming the energy sector. When it comes to the use of European funds, this use is low, only a few dozen percent have specifically undermined cross-border co-operation and transnational co-operation. When we talk about regional development at the total level of the ministry, 7% of the funds were not used, IPU funds were not used, and this use was between 7% and 60%, depending on the programme. 33% were not used for mountain-mounted areas, 23% for special state care, and 23% for infrastructure in these areas for a further 20%. And as the state budget was realised, GDP growth was not achieved. Looking at global economic growth in 2011 it is significantly slowed down. In developing countries it is reduced by 1 index point, and in developed countries it is halved. However, after several years of significant decline, there was a stagnation of economic growth, but compared to the immediate environment. The economic dynamics after the crisis in Croatia are the most unfavourable, and the forecasts for Croatia are still not favourable. Thus, in 2011, the number of employees was reduced, the annual inflation rate doubled from 2010 from 1.1 to 2.3. The lack of trade in goods increased by 7.3%, amounting to 6.7 billion euros. The gross foreign debt of 45.7 billion euros tends to fall, but this is due to the conversion of several domestic companies' debt to foreign owners, who have converted their claims into a ownership stake. Thus, there was a decrease, otherwise the increase would be slightly higher than 700m euros. As far as state finances are concerned, we have three years in a row of unfavourable movements. Although revenues were achieved at the planned level, they were significantly affected by revenue from assets, which grew by 54% above the plan, affecting governments to invest 50% of dividends in state-owned companies. The expenditure was also achieved at the level planned, according to the IPA paragraphs, but since there was no rebalancing, the government has redistributed over 3 billion kunas, or 2.5% of the state budget under the Budget Implementation Act. This is the way we have been opposed all this time, thinking that overruns and less spent spending should be dealt with by rebalancing in the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, the deficit at the level of the plan is also very high, given that the debt level is fully covered. The net debt of the consolidated general government for 2011 of 14.8 billion amounts to 4.3% of GDP and represents a slight increase compared to the year before, but if the protested guarantees are included it goes up to 18 billion or 5.3%. This continued in 2011 the work of the general government's debt of 156 billion at the end of the year and increased by 18 billion. The practice of paying off funds for purposes that should have been or were planned and as registered by the State audit has continued, and amounts planned for state guarantees and debts of nearly 4 billion kuna have been exceeded, which is not permitted. Analysing the implementation of the 2011 budget, we can only conclude the same as when we adopt the state budget. The state budget does not reflect needs in economic and social terms and only deepens the crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11032	I now call upon my esteemed colleague, Nadic Jelash, to continue this debate on behalf of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11033	Thank you, well-respected Vice President, Deputy Minister, Deputy Chief State Auditor with an associate, respected MPs and deputies. The annual report on the implementation of the budget has never received an unconditional opinion, it regularly received a conditional opinion. And for 2011, it's also conditional, there's no change. Even though the conditional assessment is actually a positive assessment, but with certain fences, that is, certain conditions, this conditional assessment speaks to them in continuity. It talks about how the state spends public money, or the money of its citizens, taxpayers. The report also shows that the state often does not behave responsibly, does not care enough about the collection of income or the use of state property. In one word, the state is often not a good master. It is not good that the observed illegalities and irregularities in large numbers are repeated year after year, they are not corrected, and that is why the state is actually a bad example for all other legal entities. The most significant irregularities listed by the State audit, which conditional upon the 2011 conditional assessment, are the following in the previous years: no data on the claims made by the state budget in the main book of the state budget and the main books of the budgetary users are shown. And in this context, it is intriguing that, for example, the customs administration recorded for the first time in its main book of claims for the revenues of the state budget from its jurisdiction. Therefore, claims for VAT on imports, excise duties, customs duties and customs duties. Unfortunately, other budgetary users have not yet done so, except there is a customs administration. Furthermore, in the main book of the state budget there is no data on the property owned by the Republic of Croatia, because there is still no register of state property to be managed by the State Property Management Agency. We know that the state, especially some of its ministries, has extremely valuable assets that could be the source of significant revenue. However, that property was not even identified, let alone put into operation. A good example of this is the Ministry of Defence, which has thousands of apartments, a garage for which rent is either not charged or if it is charged, it is in symbolic sums. Then there are former military resorts that have now grown into weeds and chicares, etc. All of these are huge unfulfilled revenues, and if they ever needed State budget revenue, then they need it now. Furthermore, high revenues are also lost on concessions which are in principle a long-term and very safe source of income, but not in Croatia. In view of the incompleteness of the concession register and the lack of concern for the payment of the State’s claim for concessions at the end of 2011 amounted to EUR 200 million. Furthermore, the traditional area of major irregularities was also issued state guarantees, so last year the allowed amount of government debt for more than 280 million kunas was breached. Despite the Fiscal Responsibility Act that came into force just the beginning of last year and which determines the responsibility for borrowing above the plan. Furthermore, loans from port administrations contracted with international financial organisations with state guarantees, of course, and whose balance at the end of 2011 amounted to 557 million kunas were paid out of the state budget even though the State guarantees for these loans were not activated, and in the Ministry of Finance there are no documents on the acquisition of the debts of port captains. Indeed, some were served as self - servants by the government. Next, no guarantees for HABOR loans are included in the active guarantee records. Although the Republic of Croatia guarantees the obligations of HABOR without issuing a special guarantee document, these guarantees must nevertheless be recorded. Furthermore, the State's claim for the guarantees paid in such a way that the State acquired certain properties or shares in enterprises is not recorded in the main book of the state budget. In addition, contracts on the acquisition of these properties have been concluded without government decisions. The main book of the state budget did not record claims for tight interest on the guarantees paid, and the supporting records show that these claims amounted to 2 billion kuna at the end of 2011, and that those 2 billion kunas were charged may not be due at this time to reach the material rights and salaries of employees in the public and state administration or to settle some other expenditure. The budget stock was regularly used in an illegal manner. According to the Budget Act, the appropriations of the budget may be used exclusively for purposes which were not foreseen when the budget was adopted, and not for regular expenditures which are predictable and which can be planned by budget. One of the causes of this disorder and irregularities is the absence of normative acts that would more precisely define a set of conditions such as the criteria for issuing state guarantees, the assessment of investment projects, the postponement of payments, the possibility of payment or write-off of claims, etc. And when the system is not regulated, and in addition to the aforementioned normative acts, it involves a whole and efficient system of control and control of public money, then there is in fact plenty of room for arbitrary interpretations and for illegal practices. Therefore, it is necessary to urgently adopt all the necessary normative acts, integrate the system of regional treasures with the Treasury and close the taps from which uncontrollably drained the budget money, all of which are primarily for our sake but also for the sake of the EU whose full member we will become in less than a year, and until then the adoption of the national budget must be fully in line with the directives and guidelines of European legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11034	Thank you. The HNS Club's position will be brought closer to us by distinguished representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11035	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister with an associate, Deputy Chief State Auditor with an associate, co-worker and co-worker. So it is quite clear that voters made clear in the December elections what they think of a policy. This budget that we have before us for 2011 its execution is not just a representation of this implementation of the way it works. It is just a demonstration of both real and final act of one authority, which is in the four-year term not to say to the eight-year term, showed that the proper fiscal economic and social policy is not being led, that the economic activity recovery plan is being conducted, that GDP growth of 1.5% is planned, and of course it was not possible in any case and that the external deficit is essentially increasing by 9.6% in 2011. And if the total deficit of the state budget of 14 billion kuna is added, we have already heard unexploited commitments in the part of the state budget's budget expenditure of 2.2 billion kunas rise to 6.2 billion and 4.7% of gross products, and the state's deficit of 17 billion kuna, and other debts of local self-government of extra-financial funds reach as much as 5% of GDP. This is what needs to be clearly said which is the starting point for both this government and the budget, and I will be very pleased to discuss it after the 2012 budget because it all indicates that this policy-making way today, fiscal policy is something quite different and it is very, very good that we will be able to see clearly what economic growth policy means, a policy that takes care of its citizens rather than pre-election promises. It is evident that 13 billion kuna expenditure on economic affairs went on interest and went on 5.7 billion and 4.6 billion for agriculture, and even 3.7 billion for subsidies. For all other industries, 236 million were spent, and only 117 million kuna for research and development. The net debt of the consolidated state was 146 billion and a total fiscal deficit of 5.3%. The state's resources are needed to finance the missing almost entirely by providing new debts, not by saving how the coalition government is doing now. The domestic product in Croatia has continued to stagnate, we know it was 2010. 1,2, 2009. 6%, 2011 zero or around zero. The total additional value was recorded for the further real inter-annual stagnation. Economic dynamics compared to other Central and Southeast European countries were the most unfavourable. We are particularly lagging behind in the growth of commodity exports, especially the strong decline in 2011 in fixed capital investment 7.2%. Industrial production registered an inter-minor deficit of 1.2% in 2011 compared to 2010, and the highest half-yearly decrease in industrial production was recorded in net 8.6% energy production, which is potential and needs clearly seen from the policy of this coalition government where investment in energy is a priority in public sector development with all natural effects of the global industry. It is obvious that state projections in 2011 and state finances did not fit into economic growth. In addition, economic and fiscal policy was in the role of choice, not macroeconomic development policies. It is often referred to as a macroeconomic and financial environment and recession. It's always been an excuse for why we're not doing well. However, economic growth in the European Union was 1.6%, in the European Union, euro area countries 1.1%. And what's interesting is even BiH, Montenegro, Macedonia and Serbia had a higher growth rate. Macedonia is even 3.1% and BiH is 1.7% as the least mentioned. So much for the environment, so much for knowledge as the possibility of something being made if known. It must not be said when it comes to the implementation of this budget that the CNB has secured high liquidity in the state in the financial system. So the conditions existed, the projects were missing, and that's what we clearly saw when we took over. So the potential government debt in the form of state budget guarantees was 8 billion or 17.5 gross products, and the internal debt increased by 14 billion. Speaking of the 2011 budget, there is no way around it, not to emphasize what we are discussing and what we discussed yesterday, which is tax debts, contributions, obligations to the state. More than 51 billion of what 25 billion would say is a certain charge. They also mentioned the use of business premises, charges, concessions, etc., etc. It's all part of what was to be done in the previous year. The growth in external debt in the last nine years has increased three times. The growth of the deficit was focused on consumption, not on new investments and increasing production, the extremely poor co-operation of fiscal and monetary policy in which it should be stressed, it can be said freely, monetary policy has done its part of the job, which is a stable financial system. Finally, neither this budget nor the previous budget had measures to overcome the economic crisis and economic growth. That's why we have a great task, but we have knowledge, responsibility, and that's what we're going to do. Two sentences on the revision. For a number of years, the audit has given a conditional opinion on the budget. A few items and opinions of the revision. What's the conditional opinion? Since the use of the 2011 budget stock, the expenditure incurred for the same purposes as the previous years, which means that they were predictable, shows that one continuity policy was done independently of 2011 and years earlier in the way they were recorded which guarantees that debts, in which way were not recorded and decentralised funds, claims and revenues of the state budget, state property, are more than enough talking about the way it was, in which I believe never again will work in this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11036	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, the respected representative Martina Dalic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11037	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I have participated many times in this debate on the implementation or adoption of the state budget, this time for the first time as a representative. So for me too, this debate is a new experience, but these discussions are all as similar as I remember them, which means back in the '90s. The report on the implementation of the state budget is becoming more and more extensive and then from this range of pages is trying to figure out what is actually in the number of these papers and what is actually agreeing with each other, and something else with something fourth is not. So here I see in this direction the debates of the predecessors, there were various conclusions both wrong and correct and skipped, but good. And that must be part of the parliamentary procedure. However, there are 1694 pages in this report and all 1694 pages in fact explain three simple facts: that revenues were made in accordance with the plan, i.e. 13 million kunas more than the plan, that expenditures including those for capital expenditures were paid to obtain non-financial assets less than the plan and that the deficit resulting from this was achieved in the amount of 777 million kuna less than the plan, which means that the realised deficit of 4.1% of GDP is the same as in 2010 which is the same as in the implementation of this budget, which essentially annulled the planning of the increased deficit and the spread of budgetary imbalances. The implementation of the budget and the retention of deficits at last year stopped growth and the spread of fiscal imbalances in 2011. This means that in 2011, and this is recorded on these 1694 pages for the first time in a budget that is nominally smaller than in the previous year. It is very common in our meetings, meetings and discussions that I hear that for the first time, for 2012, a nominally smaller budget was planned than in the previous year. That is true, however, between the plan and the realization is a long way to go. In 2011, this realization was achieved and for the first time in our budget history, expenditures were realized less than the previous year, and I believe that this will be a good motive for this year to bring about an even stronger and stronger drop in expenditure. However, the trends we see in the first five months do not quite announce it, but it is now and thus not a topic. Also, the achievement of the revenue that is mentioned, which is planned at the level, has been achieved under the conditions of the abolished crisis tax, so-called ‘crisis tax’, so-called ‘crisis tax’. harac and reduced excise duties on petroleum products which were reduced in March last year to support citizens under the conditions of rapid rise in oil prices. Therefore, it is also a feature of the achievement of these revenues. These revenues were made in accordance with the plan in terms of lower taxes than they were in the case in 2010. We'll see about 2012. In addition to the reduction of the government budget deficit by 777 million kuna and its return in the 2010 frameworks, as indicated on the 578 pages of this Report, the deficit of the consolidated general government, meaning both the state budget and the extra-financial funds and units of local self-government, is lower by 2.14 billion kuna. This means again that the share in the gross domestic product of the general government deficit of the general public sector was measured at the level of 2010. However, this additional reduction in deficits is achieved under the conditions of unplanned expenditure to pay out the secured savings of the Kredo Bank. There's not much special about this in the report, but the settlement of insurance deposits wasn't planned. However, despite this unplanned pay that took place during the election campaign, which occurred at a time when strong confidence in the banking system, especially in small banks, the payout even during this difficult time managed to calm anxiety. But it has also succeeded in reducing the general government deficit of 2.14 billion kuna. If it wasn't for the Credo Bank, that reduction would have been even bigger. I guess after a year and a half of the problem in Kredo Bank this was the last attempt to prevent the orderly implementation of the 2011 budget. Paying out secured savings to nervous savings during the election campaign was not a simple task, but it was successful. In 2011, therefore, 335 million kunas of government debt were paid more than planned. The result is the reduction of short-term debt and balances of vault records and one part of exchange rate differences. Debt operations were carried out in accordance with the plan during the first half of the year, since just because of the election cycle any significant borrowing and financing operations could not have been carried out in the second half of the year, and they were not even light economic circumstances. I hope it doesn't happen again. As a result of the account of the Ministry of Finance in the Croatian National Bank on the day of the handover, there were 31m euros, 80m dollars. For execution means, therefore, a total of 770 million kuna for the execution of foreign currency obligations in January plus 348 million kuna on the kuna account. This is also a comment to the state auditor, who, as a particularly significant problem, pointed out that the financing account was reached by 120 million kuna more than it was entered in the Law on the implementation of the State budget. Just calculate the rate difference effect on the 24 billion kuna and the balance deposit that I mentioned 31 million euros and 80 million dollars, and regular repayment of both principals and interest of the state budget can never come into question. In 2011 For the first time, the finance ministry has also carried out a currency risk protection and risk-restriction operation to achieve 136m-euro savings by the end of last year, and in view of the continued increase in dollars this year and savings to date have been further increased. The final budget for 2011 was implemented in accordance with the Fiscal Responsibility Act, which means that the expenditures of the consolidated general government were reduced by 0.94% of gross domestic product from 41.9 to 49. The alignment of the implementation of the budget with the Fiscal Responsibility Act was achieved in 2011 although Article 13 of that Law required fiscal rules to be drawn up and implemented in the preparation of the 2012 budget. And I note that this harmonisation has been restored despite the unplanned remuneration of the Kredo Bank insurance premiums. The result is, therefore, the implementation of the budget of halting the spread of deficits, thus keeping it a stable basis for further reduction, but also allowing for the retention of the investment credit rating. So this is all of this and all of these numbers are shown and described on 1694 pages of this report. However, somewhere between pages 509 and 512. There are 5 sentences that spread exactly 9 lines in which the Ministry of Finance is essentially trying to say that a report that detailedly spreads to 1694 pages is actually not quite right. After all these 1694 pages have been drawn up by the budget users, the Ministry of Finance has five sentences in the text explanation of the total expenditure, indicating that there are unsettled commitments which are not mentioned in either the period, nor what they relate to, or whether they have reached or failed to reach. Of these five sentences, they can only be said to be unbeliefable, and what their colossal character testifies to, and it is quite unclear what the Ministry of Finance wanted to say. For example, it is said that there are commitments from earlier years in the positions of the 952m kuna Ministry of Agriculture. There's no telling what kind of commitment it is. On the Committee on Agriculture, even the representative of the Ministry of Agriculture did not know what this was about, and an integral part of this report and an explanation of the Ministry of Agriculture itself. In that explanation, the Ministry of Agriculture does not mention in any word any outstanding liabilities of kuna 952 million, but in the report of the Ministry of Agriculture there is the following sentence: "For the purpose of transporting workers to control the line of slaughter into slaughterhouses in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, a passenger car was purchased. The purchase was made under favourable conditions." So the question of the Department of Agriculture's personal car has found places in this extensive report, but not this 952 million kuna. They're talking about each other on the way. Then shipbuilding. Nothing in the Ministry of Economy report again. Not a single word, not a single letter on the 135 pages of the report, of its own report by the Ministry of Economy, which it only provided and delivered to the Ministry of Finance. But please, please, this is contrary to common sense. What other obligations towards shipyards should exist after restructuring and recovery have been made, after the guarantee reserves have paid for the guarantees, and what other debts to the shipyards could be and to whom should these debts be paid? If any debts exist, then they are huge shipbuilding debts to the state budget for paid guarantees already paid and guarantees that will have to be taken over and into public debt. Thus, however, things are becoming much clearer why and what these five sentences are for in 9 lines when there is a question of obligations to the Catholic Church. Obligations to the 230 Catholic Church and some million kunas exist. They were created from 2000 to 2003 and everyone knows it more or less because, among other things, they were listed in the stand by arrangement that we had with the IMF in 2004. These obligations are also regulated by an agreement with the Catholic Church, which was concluded sometime in 2005, which found, among other things, no straining interest, and is also set to be found a permanent solution. A lasting solution needs to be found. Contrary to the creation of commitments for the past three years, the Catholic Church has given up parts of the funds by agreements with the government. So in 2009, she gave up 50 million kuna for 2010. 18.5 and 2011 45 million kunas belonging to her under the Holy See Agreement. Therefore, not that debt was not left behind but rather regulated relations were left. Therefore, the way in which this information appears in the report without details, without explanation and without any mention in the reports of the resolution ministries all points to their nature. It is simply unworthy and motivated solely by political motives. And I don't think there's a place in the State Budget Report. And just in the end, two sentences about the review report, and I'm going to talk about it in more detail because I've also come forward for an individual debate. I personally have experience with state auditors, National Bank supervisor, big four, business auditors, European Commission auditors. I've worked with them all. All of them are connected by a certain common feature, and I guess that's also the feature of their work. What I want to say, as has already been pointed out, the State Budget Audit Report is conditional and will be conditional for many years. That's why
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11038	I kindly ask you to bring the end. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11039	I will. Here's a sentence. Because part of the findings that are made year by year and repeated in the State Budget Audit Report cannot be implemented. It just isn't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11040	Thank you. Dear Representative Marija Vukbratovic believes that you said something incorrect that needs to be corrected.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11041	Mr Vice-President, it is true that the Committee on Agriculture discussed outstanding commitments from the previous period, however, it is not true that the Assistant Minister did not know what these obligations were but simply said that he would provide us with a written specification of exactly all the obligations that were not met in the past period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11042	It's not about the assistant, it's about the Deputy Finance Minister, the respected Mr. Boris Lalovec, who now wants to get involved in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11043	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Just for a little while. I said in my opening statement that I didn't want to pollemize about this part of the state budget, so I see your last sentences that we're actually trying to streamline through this report. I'd very much like it if you hadn't left 51 billion taxpayers' debt, 42 billion unpaid in the economy. Also in the last 3 years you've been in charge of the state 40 billion kuna since 2009, 2010, so we can talk differently, but these are the facts and these are the figures. I'm telling you, I didn't want to mention to you with these billions that I've mentioned here, I'd like to not talk about it, because it's the state of what it is, and this part of the debt settlement just to tell you about this part of the debt default and in other agencies like FINA where we haven't found any contracts, where they haven't been executed to tell you about the information that yesterday the same Ministry of Finance paid off to farmers, now with 30.06. over 2 billion kuna went to the farmers. So I'm telling you that we didn't want to get into that part, it means too much controversy about it. And that all these obligations that we've said and we've actually found that we're going to regulate and we're going to execute and we didn't want to go back to that kind of thing. I just wanted to let you know that if you think you've actually left the orderly finances and the orderly state after 40 billion kunas in three years, then we all need to ask ourselves how we add up. If you have 40 billion kunas of government deficits left neatly.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11044	The polemics will obviously continue because the adjudicated Martina Dalic appeared to correct the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11045	Well, it's an incorrect assumption that the esteemed Deputy Minister didn't want controversy, so of course he wanted to. And with everything you have stated you also need to know that with the amount that the deficits of built highways in Croatia, fixed ports, built roads, hospitals, university campuses and one long, long list. The fact is, therefore, that the Croatian state budget has been in the deficit for the past 10 years, but the actual situation has also remained behind and some state property used today by all citizens. So when you calculate then you will see that in the last 10 years, including the mandate of the previous Social Democratic Government are more or less all deficits spent on capital investments.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11046	Another club will be involved in the debate, which is the HDSSB club. The attitudes will be transferred by the respected representative Igor Češek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11047	Dear Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. We at the HDSSB Club will not accept the report on the implementation of the state budget with one sentence – Dao God did not repeat! The 2011 state budget provides for revenue of € 107.4 billion and expenditures of €122.3 billion, with a deficit of 14.9 billion or 4.3% of GDP. The 2011 budget was based on a 1.5% projection of GDP, with the matter being worse statistics saying that GDP did not experience any growth, but a stagnation or even a decline. It was an extremely bad budget, an underdeveloped one that pushed the Republic of Croatia deeper into the crisis. We need to be aware of the fact that without growth and exports, we have no chance, and the debt to abroad and internal debt is further focused not on the growth of the economy but on consumption. The question is, what's the security of pensions and salaries, she was with that budget, but also with this. What about salaries in the private sector, what about the salaries of those who pay taxes and whom is the public sector living? They're uncertain, they're giving out cancellations, and then these people are going to the office and they're retrieving money from the budget. The budget was absolutely maternal to Slavonia and Baranja. If, at the pre-election time of HDZ's rule, money was spent on opening various construction sites, not to mention rental plots, where 280 thousand kunas were spent for this purpose on sub-level y, and we know which marketing agency was doing that service. From that sub-level y to today there's nothing. Unfortunately, that road was supposed to be of crucial validity for the economic development of Slavonia and Baranja and the entire Podravina, nothing was launched. In order to avoid confusion, we do not support a 2012 budget that has even more proven to be maternal towards Slavonia and Baranja, especially since there is not one development project in it, and the support of agricultural investment has been reduced by as much as 1.35 billion kuna. Are we aware of what we have done to agriculture, or gentlemen of the ruling coalition, are you aware of what you have done to agriculture? The question is also raised in the previous budget, and also in this current one, which is with countless state agencies that usually have seats in rented premises, and buildings owned by the Republic of Croatia are empty. Here's a chance to read an article, to be honest, I didn't even know that such an agency existed, says the Croatian Agency for Mandatory Oil and Oil Products. Their 7 employees have an average gross monthly salary of an incredible 37,000 kuna. More than the Prime Minister, the President of the Republic or the President of the Parliament. HAND employees who are defined as an independent, independent and non-profit public institution, desks in offices of 488 square meters, in the strict center of Zagreb. So it turns out that every employee has 66 square meters of work space at their disposal. Even though they hire and pay 1.2 million kuna a year for it. The agency's annual salary alone spent about $3.1 million. They have one official vehicle, spend some change on the team itself. This is indeed unfortunate, such agencies should be moved to areas owned by the Republic of Croatia and this would bring much more money to the state budget itself. We can draw a conclusion from all of this, so where we shouldn't be spent, we act like drunk rich people, or we're wasting our lives, and investments in economic development and recovery of the fallen economy are very minimalistic. Gentlemen should descend from Mark's square and remind smaller towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. Let us visit Knin, Ogulin, Orahovica, Virovitica, Slatina and all the other smaller places, and it will be quite clear to you how people live in them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11048	Thank you. Some of your incorrect allegations want to correct the esteemed Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11049	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, it is an incorrect quote from colleagues of the Czech Republic that nothing was invested in Slavonia and Baranja, and that in 2011 the budget treated Slavonia and Baranja, as well as that of the marketing tricks only and from Podravski y there was nothing. That's absolutely incorrect. Namely, if you had checked out these 286 million kunas that were invested in sub-level y, it was built 11.5 kilometers of covered roads with 11 objects, bridges and overpasses. I don't know who made you Slavonic, I don't know who started your works on the bridge over Drava, I don't know who built your schools and halls. It's a question you forgot to include in the budget debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11050	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate now. The right is a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11051	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with an associate, Your Honor, Deputy Chief State Auditor. My colleagues were just saying that during the past period, how it was spent, and on the other hand, the grants that were available to us from the European Union were used minimally. For what? Of course, because the use of such means requires extraordinary effort, they need specific knowledge, they need people who are employed in the state administration, they need to be trained for it, and it obviously wasn't about people who have been employed throughout this period. That is one reason, and another reason is that these are the funds used, which are strictly controlled to the last euro. So that was it. Perhaps the best example of local self-government, some of which were more active, instead of being helped by the state, has been improving, many, in fact, what individuals have done, and local self-government, and the leadership of certain local self-government individuals have done so themselves. But here's an example of Zadar itself that didn't even withdraw the euro on its own, of course, if it wasn't for some major and state-owned projects. And the explanation was that, we didn't need it, we didn't need it. That's what logic was when we see what percentages were being secured and withdrawn from individual programs, we'll see that it's how the government has acted as a whole so far. Namely, let me just remind you that the Republic of Croatia is a user of the pre-accession CARDS, PHARE, ISPA and SAPARD programmes, and a unique Instrument of Pre-Accession Assistance IPA, which replaced the current programmes in the financial perspective from 2007 to 2013, which consists of 5 components. Component one assistance in the transition and construction of institutions, then cross-border cooperation, regional development, development of human potential, rural development through which the Republic of Croatia has been allocated 592.6m euros for the period 2007 to 2010. However, through the pre-accession programme, the IPA Republic was allocated 382.61m euros for the first three years of the financial perspective from 2007 to 2013. In the end of 2010, only 96.18m euros were agreed from the IPA programme and 25.24% were achieved. From 2007 to 2011 Croatia was only able to contract 276 million from the 669m-euro pre-accession assistance programme, while only 138m euros were paid for concrete projects or only 21% of the total amount. I think that's enough for the alarm and that's enough talking about the behavior of the government itself, but it's also saying what our obligations are to never happen again. Especially since we now have five times the amount to prepare for the state administration or people in the state administration, and as Minister Grcic himself said, we will need to employ at least two hundred people who will be able to absorb or prepare projects for the absorption of these funds from the EU. So, as we have had the opportunity and heard these preparations are ongoing, especially something that is encouraging and ours is really special and that there is no crisis, and especially in times of crisis, we need to focus all our strength primarily intellectually on this and especially on infrastructure projects, which is also being talked about by Minister Greekic, where one third of the funds will just be allocated to infrastructure projects specifically for railways, environmental protection, human resources development and strengthening regional competitiveness. It was our greatest chance and opportunity right in regional development to make the most of our resources so far, and in the end, it might be the use of those funds to maybe the best school to withdraw funds from other funds as well. Of course, they play a key role in all of this, and it is in the focus of thinking of the new government that the units of local self-government, because ultimately life is not living in some abstraction, life is living in a specific unit of local self-government to simply force local self-government units to be able to withdraw certain funds. So here I wanted only on this example is the real damage really because of that we suffer great damage. This has gone away, funds have failed, and ultimately we have a great reminder that we need to be careful, focused because eventually they need both certain funds and certain membership fees to be paid. So here we are enrolling in an elite school, the enrolment isn't very small, but if we know how to use it, but on this unfortunately negative example, because the long ones are learning in Cambridge and Oxford, and unfortunately we're learning from mistakes and that this never happens again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11052	Thank you. I call now on Honorable colleague Igor Radenovic to present his debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11053	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here is another execution in a series of similar and boring debates, as counterpart Dalic said about what was done last year, but one of the discussions on another failed year on another one in a number of years in which the HDZ government and this is visible from this budget implementation did not take adequate measures to tackle the economic crisis, so in this segment, the policy of the budget has not changed and this is visible from these figures, and it is visible from the opening discussions and from the discussion of the representative of the HDZ former finance minister. I'm going to remind you of a series of colleagues and colleagues of catastrophic results from 2009, GDP declines of 6%, industrial production of 9.3%, trade over 15%. In 2010, the story continued, though slightly smaller numbers, and so we fall with GDP 1.2, with industrial 1.4, trade almost 2% with further declines in construction, with further declines in investment and what hurts the most, with a further increase in the number of unemployed and the number of employees. What we have in Croatia today and we are approaching that number of 1:1, so what we have in Croatia is the percentage of unemployment right behind Spain, right behind Greece. Spain is Europe's football champion, but in these segments, it's not our role model. In 2011, therefore, the year of GDP continued to be stagnated by macroeconomic indicators stagnated and despite the forecast that there will be an increase of 1.5% of Croatia stagnating, Croatia stands at least neighbouring countries were saying this before me, although the EU is growing in euro area countries over 1% and a total of over 2%. In Croatia, a further lack of trade in goods in Croatia and further energy production drops by almost 10% and further increases internal debt by 14 billion kuna. The deficit that finally approached the 5% famous figure... is not... on investments, the measures to overcome the crisis remained on individual flat-rate measures and actions, and under the cover that nothing is possible to do is the answer due to economic developments due to the given variable of relations. The answer is that the budget has also implemented... The Ministry of Finance executed it. And that's true, I don't argue about it, and there was Minister Dalic right. Thus, the budget has carried out its commitments neatly but this has been set and as a fundamental objective obviously the former government is sure to implement the budget in the pre-election year that certain waves do not occur. The government avoided having a responsible debate last year and held a responsible debate in this House where this place is, so we didn't discuss the rebalancing and we should have been re-distributed from nearly 3 billion kuna. This is allowed by the Budget Law to be allowed up to 5% to redistribute to government decisions but it is far better to do so in Parliament. As I said, long-term policy does not wave, and perhaps the best way to look at it is to carry out the state budget, perhaps the best way to look at how the previous government referred to profits and dividends. So in April of last year, therefore, it makes a decision on the mandatory payment of profits from public companies, where the state has a majority package to make it 50% and a budget payment, and where there is less is required for members of supervisory boards and members of congregations representing the Republic of Croatia that at least 50% also want to pay... What are the results? [[You don't understand.]] Here are colleagues and colleagues, dividend indices compared to the planned ones, even if 100 is planned in the sum, and that's accurate, the dividend index is 716, so from the planned 48 to 286, and around the profits of the companies so the payments in the budget with the planned 370 were realised by 637 million kuna or 172 indices. Hold the water until the election is over, you're lucky it's not over. With regard to the opinion of the review, it is clear that this is a long-term conditional opinion and that we do not have movement on that side, but certain shifts have been made and on that side I say professionally within the Ministry of Finance itself. The shifts were made around the OIB and everything and I have no objection. The fundamental objection is, in fact, about the political trouble that the overall policy of the budget is changing. Yesterday and during the debate on the General Tax Law, we concluded that the state was not very good at paying attention to a good master, so it did not do everything on that side to collect its income, to adequately manage its assets. It finds the state audit itself, let me only mention the most, in the main book of the state budget, as in the main books of the budget users there is no data on claims based on the law of income of the state budget, the customs administration did so for the first time, but others did not. There's no record of state property, so the State Property Management Agency hasn't been able to do it yet, we hope there will be a shift this year. As regards the keeping of concession registers in the register, certain concession agreements have not been entered, an inequality has been established in the presented data in the register and in the main book of the state budget, and it is also difficult to monitor the collection due to the inability to see the historical data on the state of the debt of the concessionaire. What is particularly worrying, one of the findings of the audit, is that the receipts from borrowing are higher by 281 million kuna or 1.2% of the planned amount. Then there he is, I think someone already mentioned the loans, colleague Jelesh, if I'm not mistaken. Debt on loans from the port administrations of 556 million kunas are not activated, no documents on debt acquisition in the Ministry of Finance. The main book does not record claims for repayments of principals and interest on loans, noting that there is no documentation confirming the obligations of the state budget. And yet another one in a series, perhaps not least important, but something that is repeated and which appeals to more responsible behaviour, so the funds of the budget stock according to the audit are not carried out for the unforeseeable purposes of the law, but therefore for the funds that were not secured in the budget and could not be secured in the planning process, but... and that it was not possible to predict them from year to year. Instead of establishing them, they are determined in the budget stock which is not good in any case and these expenditures could have been predicted. In one sentence, the final year in a series of troubles and a desire for budgetary policy to change we have come to the end of this road, the path is now behind us, the new government has its goal, the goal of growing the economy, the goal of returning GDP to positive frameworks, returning the economy, waking the economy, and then the standard of living of Croatian citizens, returning honesty and justice to the work of the state administration, and on that path I believe that there will be wind in the back of this Croatian Parliament. In this year and four years ahead of us, and I believe four years behind that our trust will also justify it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11054	Thank you. The first announcement that in 10.50 it was time to report a 10-minute debate, followed immediately by the replica of the respected representative Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11055	Thank you very much. Well, here's a colleague, Radjenovic, not the first speaker today, mentioned the dividend issue paid by public companies last year to the budget, part of them worth 50% of the profits. And what do you think public service is for anyway? They're state-owned. And why it's good that all other owners have a logical right to withdraw the dividend, and that is the only right that would be denied the state as the owner. Public companies, in my opinion, serve to be profitable, some of them where the state has property like INA this year have three times more profits than it was last year. Therefore, public companies are now serving to make profitable business and reject their owner's profits, as it is not necessary at the expense of Croatian citizens to increase energy prices as it was done with the price of electricity. Last year, HEP paid the dividend and there was no increase in electricity prices. There's no dividends this year, and there's certainly an increase in electricity prices. I don't really understand such a policy for public enterprises.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11056	Dear Igor Radenovic will respond to this replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11057	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, yeah, I guess we don't understand each other, actually we understand each other very well. The former government's policy was exactly that, don't do anything, let things go the way they're going, so as long as it hangs out, hold on. I do not dispute, of course, that the owner has the right to withdraw his profits at the end of the year, but whether it was also opportunised and whether it was quality to do something about it to let Croatian citizens and all of us here judge. If that's how you didn't predict it, you'd get it at the beginning of the year when these indices are as alarming as I was saying. And on the other hand, it is clear to all of us that the lost economic activity within the public enterprises of the Republic of Croatia, that HEP has not invested anything for years, here we are the largest energy importer in the world per capital practically and that nothing has been done on this side to make a number of investments about the takeover of alternative sources of energy that is practically impossible to achieve future HEP has not invested in the distribution network. It is clear to us in what state of the refinery in Rijeka, Sisak, that the government has failed through its policy to do this investment cycle, which by the way was agreed and signed when taking over MOL of its shares, etc. etc. That's exactly what it is that we've left public companies to build up the administration, to accumulate their incomes without doing what's theirs. ... So they invest in their development and thus encourage the economy of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This year, here's what we're trying to do with these measures in the absence of private investment. So, just in the direction of the development of HEP, INA and all other public companies, we are trying to run that fungi in which you left us after those years in which you managed to be unfortunately at the head of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11058	Thank you very much. I call on the now respected representative, Petar Baranovic, to address the Parliament and the public with his debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11059	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, distinguished representatives of the executive government, honored colleagues and fellow MPs. I guess it's part of your personal naivety every time you're surprised over and over again that in some moments that are quite serious you hear laughter and irritation from the ranks of people who are actually the creators of all those indicators of the results that are contained in this report on the implementation of the budget, but also the review report contained. People who know me say I'm pretty bright and that I belong to people who aren't afraid. I guess it's part of a professional habitat, but I have to admit that when these numbers are read and these reports don't catch me in a good mood, and I also feel a certain anxiety. What's contained in these reports doesn't in any way point to the good direction this country is going, this society. What to say more than what previous speakers have said about the basic features of budget management policy, state finances, economic governance, state resources, all those processes in society shown in this report, i.e. reports for many years. We are dealing with the model by which life in this country is financed by borrowing from outside. Every year we've raised nominally to this year, this is the first time the budget level has dropped. Every year we've been looking for money out there to settle the difference between what we're really incomeming, we stand out as a nation and as a society of what we're spending. Such a policy leads in the long run south to a country that we have been following intensively for the past year on small screens and through the media, which is going through its most likely most difficult moments in modern history, and I would really not like as a man, nor as a parliamentary representative to lead a policy that leads towards the Balkan south in the future. I will refer to a few details of this report, which, on the implementation of the state budget submitted by the State Audit, is primarily about keeping the concession registers. The report says: "The keeping of concession registers as a unique electronic record of concessions given in the Republic of Croatia is within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Finance, and then no individual concession contracts are entered in the register, the inequality in the shown data in the register and in the Master Book of the State Budget has been established, and it is also difficult to monitor the collection due to the inability to see the historical data on the state of the debt of the concessionary." A rather strange state for a country that should try to run its income correctly and responsibly, rather strangely. Since these concession agreements are not so much, but not so strange when certain specificities are known in the field, as a local official, you know that certain concessions that the concession was precisely not charged by the state for years. And where, therefore, local self-government units also do not charge the corresponding rights, for example under the Law on concessions on maritime goods, where local self-government units are entitled to 33% of income. They have the right to do so, and of course they do not have the right to control the collection or to exercise any other instrument present in other situations and provided for by law. The issue, the management, the payment of concessions is quite infatuated in some kind of fog when it comes to the Croatian state. I am responsibly saying that there are concessions that have not been charged for years, and I am sure that no one has written such a concession contract that predicts that someone is tolerated from paying the concession for years. And I also claim it's not an accident. And therefore, as a representative in the Croatian National Assembly, I will use my legal powers to ask for a certain part of the documentation to be seen, and then we may all be surprised when we find that certain very attractive ports of nautical tourism are, as a matter of fact, given to personal friends or political counterparts, a concession burdened approximately as much as a kiosk to sell on the Sibenik Poljana, and we will also find that certain ports of nautical tourism have worked without any concessions, which, of course, has not been determined by the competent Inspection of the Maritime, Transport and Communications Ministry, so we will determine a number of things. It is also expected from a country which has placed a large part of its assets through various state-owned mechanisms or under the property of state-owned enterprises to take care of the state-owned economy by means of the manner in which it is responsible. But the other day, as part of one of the discussions, we met the fact that there was no register in which state property was registered. It is very clear to us that there is no systematicity in the management of state assets that is measured at hundreds of billions of kunas. It is also clear that neither the potential of all these assets has been used, so let's not be surprised that we have cases discussed by the media or by some state institutions that the state has rented business premises for the purposes of one ministry or several ministries while the state's assets are standing in a rush, in a pause, in a collapse and abandoned. And no one's responsible. Everyone's in a good mood this morning. They remind passengers from the first class of Titanic before the sinking. The band's playing, the team's getting all worked up and they're laughing. There's a real situation in this laugh report and a good mood. Congratulations, gentlemen. You've got a very good job. Well done! Finally, in 2011, 4 billion and 900 million kuna were provided for 6 million and 775. I don't want to comment because I'm not a financial expert and I can't put myself in the skin of those who may have been under certain circumstances and forced, I allow. The situation was not simple and no one underestimates the circumstances of the global crisis in which you worked. However, all of this above has nothing to do with the global crisis. Neither the irresponsible management of state assets nor the lack of a properly managed concession register and the correct management of concession revenue collection. That's no excuse. Without anger and without any political attachments, I expect this executive authority to account for these things mentioned above and that we do not have such remarks in the State Audit Report next year. And finally, I will confirm what the esteemed representative Dalic said, it is true that the funds withdrawn from international financial institutions have indeed been financed by part of the projects, i.e. projects of public facilities infrastructure, schools and everything else. That's right. For example, my city was also consummated by some financial support and assistance for the construction of certain facilities. We'd be incorrect if we claimed otherwise. However, when you become a representative, so when you leave your city’s shell and go to the ground, to get acquainted with the data of the situation on the ground, the way citizens live in certain municipalities and cities then feel uncomfortable because in your city, no matter how much ambition or contented and dissatisfied living standards are much more appropriate than the standards of some municipalities and cities that did not have powerful garners in power, they did not have good people, they may not have had enough, so when you come to one Kistanje or when you come to a Gračac in person and when you see how these cities and these places live then you feel that anxiety again, you lose a good mood, and sometimes these people feel shame. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11060	Thank you. The intention to replicate has been reported by the distinguished representative Đuro Popiac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11061	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So most of today's debates, including a respected colleague last, are really doing a lot of work to disqualify everything that happened during the past year and earlier, but unfortunately we have to realize that you and this government are all going to be an unspeakable dream. Everything that happened last year, everything that seemed difficult, and in the last year, unfortunately, you only managed to corrupt in 6 months so much that this country would not recover for many years after this. So, what was your reach? Your reach was an increase in VAT to 25%, a severe blow to entrepreneurship by new taxes, never seen a blow to the business and economy conditions in this country at all, and all this is the result, so you've already brought down the GDP by more than 2% within 6 months, that you've brought down consumption, that in one month you've managed to bring down industrial production by more than 9%. Here's the result of your government's work in only six months. So, you can still enjoy yourself here in these few recent reports of how much you're going to spin because you don't have other, of course, reform procedures that we have to listen to in this House, but that's going to end. We'll see already the account at the 9th month where this government's policy has led to over the past six months.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11062	The replica will be answered by a respected representative, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11063	Dear fellow Drinker, I know you know I have a lot of characteristics, but I don't suffer from oblivion, I'm still quite young. And since I'm a 19-year-old entrepreneur so I remember that the first VAT rate was 22% and it was raised to 23%, it seems to me to be the mechanism it reached at certain times of difficulty... I was a decent and well-bred boy to keep my mouth shut when you were talking, Mr. Drinker, so it would be nice and very polite for you to hold on to it, too. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It is certain that in eight years we will not raise this country's duty twice. That's for sure, that's for sure. It is also safe and clear to everyone in this country that no government in 6 months would bring the country into a state in which it is today, but it is also quite clear that the continuity and domination of government in these premises of your party, Mr. Poppie, has brought this country into a state where it is not only financially but also by many other criteria. To speak on behalf of the party responsible for the privatisation carried out in the way it was carried out, which is even responsible for some elements of war profiting, which is responsible for borrowing as it is interesting to see how some people from the conductors became billionaires. That's why we're here today, even your government in four years is not solely responsible for the situation we're in today. It was a bit of a longer process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11064	On the basis of a basic presentation by MP Petar Baranovic, the representative Martina Dalic will now be doing the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11065	You know what, I wanted to say something constructive, but I think it's groundless so I'm giving up.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11066	We're continuing an individual debate. Respected representative Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11067	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, Deputy Chief Auditor, colleagues and colleagues. The discussion of the budget is always a discussion of the policy of those who managed the budget, in this case for last year, means for 2011, and I therefore understand that it is not quite easy to sit on this left hand side and listen to the evaluations of colleagues who are now in position including HNS, a colleague of Baranovic, with whom I absolutely agree throughout the series of his findings because this budget we are talking about today, means the 2011 Budget, as well as a whole of the previous budgets of the HDZ Government, was agreed almost exclusively in a way to save the party in survival in power. So it was conceived in a way to buy social peace, despite clear indicators, clear economic, numerical indicators that the country's economic situation is not good. And finally, despite trying for years, it means buying individual groups, bigger or less voters in the Republic of Croatia, who have obviously also succumbed on several occasions to such HDZ promises. And finally, even so, those citizens recognized before one political, responsible, which should be responsible, the political structure that will no longer be able to do so will not work. That we won't be able to live above our own possibilities, that the cover we're covering is unfortunately too short and that we'll have to get under that blanket the way we can and how we would. Among other things, and these 40 billion spoken of by Mrs. Dalic, in some years ahead of us probably twice as long as the years in which we were in debt, finally returned. From where? Well, from our citizens' pockets, it means tax collection. It is clear that this budget, our budget and this current budget, has become completely overly tense in terms of already foreseen commitments that are part of the budget. So Mr. Deputy also mentioned that de facto half of the budget is focused only on pensions and broad health and social welfare. Where and with these means, it will probably be very difficult this year, or almost impossible to meet all the obligations that have been imposed on us. However, of course, responsibility for politics, responsibility for the budget is something that should in itself be understandable. And out of this, however, dear colleagues have come political irresponsibility, where I would even exclude Mrs. Dalic, who was very nice to me. I suppose something else was funny to her, though, when she came for a pay phone, not the current political situation, or financial and economic situation in the country. I hope so, something else was funny, I guess, not the economic situation and our comments. Because it is not her fault, Mrs. Dalic probably did her job very correctly, at the end of the budget as such technically speaking, she seems numerically relatively and solid. It's only seen as a sum of numbers that go in or out. But, of course, the budget as such is a political message and its repercussions are in citizens' lives, so there is no correlation and it is not fair, it is not good, if there is no money, if we act in such a way that we are in charge of paying what we promised, then it is a completely wrong story. And Mrs. Dalic did nothing to do with it, she was just doing what the Ministry of Finance expected her to do with the ruling policy. So, of course, the total HDZ government headed by Mrs Kosor is responsible for this, and of course all its predecessors, for which we know how they acted and where they are currently, or where they will likely end up. So there's no problem here now, we can cry here for spilled milk, what this government, these people who took over power can promise citizens, is that this kind of irresponsible behavior won't, that if God gives and voters to stay in power enough time to change these trends. We're not gonna do these things and we're not gonna promise and buy their votes in a way that we're gonna be in debt. Here, so much and I appeal to my colleagues to be correct, because these are all facts and I say to most people who do this work professionally, within the framework of the Ministry of Finance I certainly and absolutely do not doubt Mrs. Dalic's expertise that she tried to do it in the most correct way possible. But which is a pretest in the end as a policy, you have to admit that it's not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11068	In this debate several times mentioned, it will now be replicated by the respected Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11069	Thank you very much. She said, as a colleague, it is probably not easy to listen to everything that colleagues in the ruling coalition say. You know what, I told you at the beginning, this is probably a dozen discussions about the budget I'm in, the first time I've been on this side. So, not only from experience, but from my own knowledge and profession, I know that these words, the end, never again, never again, thank God, are almost with this kind of policy not now first spoken in the Croatian Assembly. Very often they are used in budgetary debates to indicate that something new is following and you are now as the ruling coalition also want to tell us that something new is now coming. But with the budget, it's your problem to see things in numbers. And so it is seen in figures that expenditure goes beyond plan, and that is the largest category of expenditure, and that we will probably have to have a budget rebalance very quickly in which it will be valorised. That's why they're whispering about an extraordinary session during the summer. Revenues, when things look a little bit better, then you see the 5th month, incomes less than last year at the 5th month. You can see at 2% higher VAT rate only 150 million kuna higher income, so I understand the political desire to use big words, but I know as an economist that the facts unfortunately cannot be ignored. And just a sentence more. The Ministry of Finance implements the budget adopted by the Croatian Parliament. And I hope that both this Ministry of Finance and its leaders will carry out the budget the way the Parliament brought it, because everything else would be deeply wrong and would lead to unwanted democratic results.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11070	Thank you very much. Respected Nada Turina-Đuric will respond to this replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11071	Very short. You're right, of course, it's a matter of political ideas and visions of how we look and how we fight politically at the end of these benches for our positions. However, what I must conclude is that you will find it difficult to overcome in failures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11072	I now again give my esteemed representative Martini Dalic to present his debate for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11073	Thank you very much. So here's what I really wanted to look back on this State Audit report. And what I wanted to say in the State Audit report on the implementation of the budget, I also pointed out at the end of my debate on behalf of the club. I really met and I worked and I ran institutions that were subject and audited by the European Commission and the State Audit and the CNB Supervision and business auditors and auditors all in some way I would say all these types of auditors connect one common feature. It binds one rigid strictness. Maybe that's the nature of their work and maybe that's the way it's supposed to be, so I wouldn't even get into it. Starting with the assumption that the auditor is rigidly strict. What I would like to say in my debate and maybe talk a little bit about what has never been said, which is whether or not any of these findings can be improved and why eventually some of these findings in the State budget audit appear continuously, and then parliamentary representatives wonder, so no one will want to, no one saw, everyone ignores, everyone is so naughty. I therefore dedicate this debate to the current leadership of the Ministry of Finance because it will also have part of these observations in its report on the implementation of the state budget next year. And then everyone's gonna wonder how that's how it's going to explain how it's different this time. Incomplete claims for state budget revenues in the main book as well as claims and transfers to the main book of claims from the IRS. To do this, it is necessary to invest several dozen million kunas in infrastructure, in IT, in computers, to employ a lot of people. And the reason is that these remarks are essentially repeated year after year in every execution report. Unreally, they cannot be implemented within real resources and will not be done safely even in the coming years. Have Mr. Deputy Secretary deny me. However, the issue of state property records in the main book of the budget is also the same. The Ministry of Finance as such and the one who manages the budget is this powerless but audit remark goes to him and will go to you again. These examples that I'm stating, and starting with what I said was an auditor and that somehow the common feature of all the auditors that I've known are rigidly strict, what I would recommend and what I would say, let's look at these types of findings that keep appearing with the grain of salt, let's see what is essentially, do these records exist? Well, there's everything. Well, here's Mr. Deputy Minister mentioned his tax debt several times today. As we have already learned this famous tax debt of those 52 billion, which was at the end of last year, along with the tight interest that is probably higher today, there has been since the founding of the Croatian state, therefore some records exist. So, very precise records exist about it in some tax administration records that are probably not perfect whose information system is from '94, then its foundations were laid. So that's where I don't see the point of exhausting the State Audit and everything else that's not real is that in real time with real resources and priorities can be made. And in the end, there is. This remark here, which states that the receipts of the debt in 2011 are larger than 281 million kuna, also said in the budget that the total receipts of the debt are higher by 20 million kuna. What I was about to say is, you've irrefutablely summed this up, but I'm calling on the State Review to go once with any government of any color to go to the state bond issue process and let the State Audit, for example, go there. says a billion-and-a-half million dollar bond will not be issued but will be issued out of a billion 475 million dollars. That's not going to work for you, gentlemen of the state auditors. So when you add a course to that, then you get this difference from the budget law. And the only thing that's really wrong here is that the Ministry of Finance and only the known reason in the Budget Implementation Act has put in a figure that goes in the last lip. If they'd been wiser, they'd have given themselves some space and then those remarks wouldn't have happened. I want to tell you that this remark is auditing, you must have calculated it and summed it up, but substitically it has nothing to do with it, and that's why it's completely wrong and it leads us all in the wrong direction to say it and label some sort of borrowing irregularities, is it also wrong to pay off 330 million kuna of debt more than was planned? But you can't come and say ha plan is a plan I won't pay the vault records anymore. Let's try to do this. I don't think it would ever occur to anyone living in the Ministry of Finance. As far as state guarantees are concerned, I think this conclusion is correct and should simply be defined as new state guarantees. These are guarantees given for new responsibilities, for increasing the balance of state guarantees. This is how we get lost in a lot of state guarantees that are issued for easy to refinance due loans, especially to HAC. You said yourself, so some 7 billion kuna guarantees for HAC were issued, it's clear that the HAC did not invest it, all these are loans and guarantees issued in previous periods which are now extended by the deadline. Therefore, what I would like to say in the conclusion, as I was saying, and when there was a full report on the work of the State Audit Office, it is indisputable that communication between the auditors and the one over which the audit is carried out, to improve internal controls, procedures and modes of work. In any case, it is primarily useful for the one at the head of the institution. But I would also like to draw attention to the fact that the operations of the Ministry of Finance are probably and all that is happening within it, that these are probably the most complex operations in the state, not only in the state sector but also in the entire economy, and that, in the revision of that, I mean, it is necessary to simply distinguish things that are important for internal control systems and the proper implementation of all processes from those that represent a mere insistence on operational-technical, informational connections that simply in real time are not possible, which, unfortunately, will not be possible within a short period of time, because it will then leave time and revision and the Ministry of Finance to focus on what is important and what is the essence of the job of the Ministry of Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11074	Thank you. The word is now being given to a respected representative of Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11075	Thank you very much, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, about one fact we have agreed today, and that fact is that there is an economic crisis that is still present in Europe and the world. It is interesting, however, that for the past two years around this left part of the Assembly has, of course, appeared differently and stepped down without respecting these facts. Today, of course, from a completely different perspective about this fact that we end up agreeing in the end that there is an economic crisis and not only in Europe but also beyond. So it should be said that the state budget, of course, is not its own purpose and it's not so dry when we start with numbers only, but that first of all I think it's the function of the state budget to serve citizens and taxpayers who pay taxes. So if we're talking about pensions, education or health care, then the team should be more concerned about all the moves we've been looking at over the past few months, and given what it's going to have to do next year, if not in this one, in just filling the budget. Because it is, the budget and the charge of the state budget is primarily the result of economic activity, employment, and not the cause, and so is the poorer charge of the budget due to it, as of course is the temporary maybe better charge of the budget and tax abuse, repression and, of course, the increase in VAT. It should be made clear because these facts show, which is that last year the tax press has been reduced even though the crisis has continued to decrease, that this year has increased. I will not open the subject again of VAT and dividend tax, but unfortunately the consequences of these decisions will be seen in the medium term and this will be extremely bad. Last year, despite the crisis in Europe, the decline in GDP was halted, this year unfortunately the left government reintroduced Croatia. Last year, exports grew, of course as a consequence of some economic and production activities, this year, my colleague Popioč already said that with a number, of course not only falling, but industrial production is also falling. Last year, unfortunately, and last year, the most important indicator for many, which is employment, however, was positive, so negative trends were stopped. Unfortunately, this year, precisely because of everything I've already said and what my colleagues have said and this unemployment is growing again, employment is falling. I think it's actually the most important proof of incompetence, lack of plans and wrong moves that have been made in these six months by the left government. Here and finally we need to find out, and that's what we're actually saying these six months, and that's that all of this in the wrong direction is going to have, above all, a disastrous consequence of economic activity, of further growth in unemployment, and then logically next year, and these will also have a direct effect on the decline in income into the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11076	A few replicas. First of all, the respected Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11077	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My fellow Milosevic, I don't know, this government must have accumulated so much trouble in six months that we'll never get out of that crisis, and you're willing to forget the last eight, even 20 years. I remember very well how the crisis began. The crisis started with one statement: we're in a banana. When the first man of the state tells you publicly that we're in a banana, you know what that signal was to entrepreneurs, to those who worked in the economy, then to me, panic. Then a senseless panic, saving, reducing consumption, actually everything that shouldn't be done in a crisis. When you talk about tax abuses, do you then advocate a thesis that seems to have been going through here since yesterday in this House that tax should not be paid. Well, I'll remind you again of the tax returns in the wake of the crisis, so when we were in bananas, when the government that your party colleagues were making introduced by the harrassor, the taxes on salaries, the seizing of income to workers, and on the other hand, neglecting the default of taxes, on the other hand, ignored the fact that indifference is great, that the state does not service its obligations, etc. Therefore, your thesis does not stand, and especially that in the last six months, the country has been so disastrously run. These problems exist as a consequence of before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11078	The replica will be answered by the respected Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11079	Yeah, well, first of all, it's important to say that it's important to follow trends, and these trends, of course, despite the crisis as I said, and that the readings from the figures last year have been stopped, and from the very expression we are in bananas or not much more important is actually what is happening in the real world not only for entrepreneurs but also for the citizens of this country. And when it comes to tax collection, it was not only last year that the order was introduced, but it was for the first time that your government had introduced a law on special tax collection. So now here I think we'll discuss it again. Therefore, there is no choir at all that it is clear that it is necessary to pay taxes, that it is clearly a matter of respecting their own state and their own children and parents, given that they receive pensions and health and education from the budget that it is not disputed. It is only a question of whether you will continue to raise the tax press and how you will treat all those who are still trying to do business in Croatia in times of crisis today, trying to export products or services.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11080	Thank you very much. The third replica is Đura Popiča's respected representative. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11081	Thank you very much. You are right fellow when you have estimated that what we have seen from economic policy or not economic policy in this government is one time without returning is actually for the Croatian economy and for Croatian businessmen. So, once again, if that hadn't been made clear enough. Only raising tax repression, so both the population and the economy resulted in these negative trends in the first six months. Therefore, the decline in consumption is caused by the drop in demand, and again by the rise in prices, which is caused by, of course, the rise in VAT rates. And also, these daily threats that the government's top officials have directed towards Croatian entrepreneurs have completely demoted the Croatian private entrepreneur to invest, invest, develop and hire. For this reason, there are negative trends on the labour market again, i.e. an increase in unemployment. Investments are not going to happen, so neither private nor public except for the replacement of electric pillars, so by the villages instead of the trees, we see that they are installing concrete, and that is the largest range of investment momentum this government has launched over the past six months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11082	Thank you too, Deputy. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Luke Denone. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11083	My fellow Milosevic, it seems to me that the thing of memory is something that is a feature of people who either have little memory or remember well. You're trying to tell us that you remember something weaker. So you're saying based on this implementation of the budget, that in these six months, the only thing we've done is introduce the country into the recession as you said. Of course, I'm asking you when we got out of that recession. Because if I'm not mistaken, we've witnessed last year's pompous statements that we see light at the end of the tunnel, only that tunnel was obviously too long and we haven't experienced it, so to get into the recession we need somewhere and get out of that recession to get back in. I don't know when we got out of the recession. At least I don't know and I don't see by any indication that we've had something much better in recent years than we have today. So, it's unserious to claim that the only thing we've done in these six months has introduced the country into recession. From the recession by you and by your words, we only went out when there was light at the end of the tunnel and when it was politically wise to say, here we now overcome and overcome the crisis. It took years to admit that the country was in crisis. On this side, we kept saying that. For years you should have admitted that the country is in crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11084	Thank you very much. And a reply to the reply of the esteemed representative of Domagoj Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11085	Thank you. Yeah, I remember perfectly. However, I do not have many years, but I have enough to remember both inflations and hyperinflation, so that should also be proud of the special achievement as a consequence of the growth of VAT and the growth of all energy and all other prices, especially welcome by all Croatian citizens in the past few months and the growth of inflation. That's a really great indicator. I think that, above all, in 2012, citizens and those who trusted the left government. The election expects your solutions today. They don't expect you to call in '92, eighth, 2004 and so on. What I remember, and that's 2002. If I am not mistaken or the third government at the time left the same 410 000 unemployed at times when there was no global crisis, the biggest economic crisis since 1930, in times when our external debt, debt to citizens and all who are doing something in this country was far less, which, of course, made it easier for this unemployment to be resolved in the years that followed, and that was resolved. Something about the investments was said by a fellow drinker. We all talk about investment all the time. I'm just saying look, we're just talking about facades, and so is this case. Today is actually about the facade. Let's really talk about the building, let's talk about the walls, about the ceilings, about the foundations. Let's not just talk about facades.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11086	Thank you very much. The next replica is the replica of the respected representative, Dragica Zgrebec. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11087	Thank you, Vice President. You say, we agreed that Croatia... I wish we'd agreed to that in 2008, 2009, maybe even 2010. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because then, together, we would get some results, given that it was the time that we were coming out of the opposition with the mass of initiatives that partly corresponded to your 10 or 15 points to get out of the crisis, and at the same time we had a decline in investment in two digits. As far as I know, you were in charge of that segment. And that we have invested in what is today Croatia is proving to be one of the main elements that violates our balance of payments and trade in goods, which is energy should not come today, nor should this increase in energy prices because Croatia would have its own production perhaps for export.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11088	Thank you very much. And the answer to the reply, the esteemed representative of Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11089	I thank Mrs. Zgrebec for opening the investment issue since all the investments of this government, i.e. all the investment projects of public enterprises, have been taken over from the former Government, thank God or unfortunately. In fact, only one has been signed so far. It is Zagreb Airport. What particularly grieves me, personally because the government passed for the first time also showed interest in private investment. Here in the 21st century, I think it's primarily the private sector and investment, and that's what everyone agrees on, both external and domestic experts are the ones who are going to get the country out of the crisis. We don't hear that any ministry like this last year was engaged in private investment and support for private investors. I can only tell you one sentence, and that's when we talk about when you could talk about the crisis and admit the fact is next, and that's about two years ago if I'm not mistaken. I wasn't in the government of the Republic of Croatia at the time, but Mrs. Kosor called on your party president, today's Prime Minister, for talks. You've done everything in those two years that you've been able to get around anything important for this country to agree on power and opposition. In some moments, you may wonder today if we were smarter, we would support some things because today would be easier for you. So today, of course, you're calling for a consensus again after we've finished our within the party elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11090	Thank you very much. The reasons for the replica are also respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11091	We don't need your consensus, but we might need some sense for you. You see fellow Milosevic, famous Roman Senator Marko Pontius Katon, before the full wars, almost every speech ended with a famous sentence: "Cetrum censeo Carthaginam delendam esse" – besides, I think Carthage should be destroyed. And I think that whenever you and your colleagues get up for at least the next six months, you should start your speech and finish saying, "I'm sorry for what we've done to you." And you're taking advantage of this topic today to make sure that Croatia in general, practically whole citizens, laugh that it's a credential because you've knocked out your teeth policy. And instead of running away from the facts, here's how the government hasn't done anything in six months. As we denied and then that Croatia is, here we are only now saying that Croatia is in crisis. One nice one, we said that in 2006, when we saw that the bogeyman's indifference was surmounted over Croatia. However, it was denied for years, two more years next year, so that one beautiful sunny day would tanning into the Croatian Parliament the one who is now in front of the court and said, "There has been a crisis," he did not say through which border crossing she entered. He said, "We're in a banana," even though we were already in a banana plantation. Mr Milosevic for your information 400 million is secured for small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, through HBOR goes 8 billion to encourage direct industry and tourism. Smart enough!
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11092	Thank you very much. And the answer to the reply, the esteemed representative of Domagoj Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11093	Well, look, I went to the classic high school, so I can answer you in Latin, but I think Croatian citizens prefer Croatian, but I can tell you in a language that you obviously understand better than the Croatian who used your prime minister, and that's hit Rhodus, a hit salta said that in this assembly. So, you got the mandate of Croatian citizens, the citizens of this country said something we didn't do, they said you'd do better, so now show more. So let's not have these intense debates, and today I've taken the right to discuss each and every one of you point to what's not right, and we all know solutions. Just give us more to hear those solutions and see what you do. Six months have passed, the only thing that has been shown is that the plan and the country's crisis exit strategies are gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11094	Thank you very much. The next debate is the debate of the respected representative of Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11095	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's what I've come up with for a debate on this point because I've been listening to a little discussion here about the use of pre-accession funds, so it's a lot of things that I think are said, and mostly without arguments, so I wanted to say a little bit here on the data that I have here and that I know they are and that I know they're right, and I've checked it out, so I wanted to say a little bit of it for the sake of it. So, as far as IPA is concerned, it's a program that ended in 2007. - In 2009, there were all project projections realised, left unused somewhere around, slightly more than 10m euros, but it was due to savings based on the competitions that were conducted. So, IPA 2007. - In 2009 we can say it realized 100%. As far as cross-border cooperation and human resources are concerned, the entire location has been agreed and used. Therefore, there is virtually nothing we can object to. And IPA in 2008, component one, there was about 95% bargaining, practically 100%. As far as ISPA is concerned, and we know that ISPA transport and environmental protection there is used 97% of the resources and what is important to say is the best percentage of all countries that have used ISPA. Let's say HZ, we know that HZ-Infrastructure is accredited as an executive agency. We had the opportunity to see this because here are the ministers from the current government who were at the opening of the project that was completed, which is the rehabilitation of the Vinkovci-Tovarnik railway, which is 33 km of railway on the very important X. Corridor and there is a 500 million kuna withdrawn and spent from ISPA. Zagreb-Government Station also, he is now in realisation, but 150 million kuna was withdrawn from the IPA. Housed-Novska 450 million kunas IPA will be realized and some competitions worth about 100 million kunas mainly on the Rijeka-Zagreb railway, I don't know Goljak-Strabik, Leskovac-Karlovac, etc., etc. As for agriculture and SAPARD, which ended there was 48%. Could it be bigger? It is. Could he be smaller? He could've been smaller. And that's a fact. But if we take the average that other countries used this SAPARD as their percentage, then we can say that we are better than them because other countries used it at between 25% and 30%. So it's closed. The IPARD is under way and so far the contract has been signed one-third, so about 380 million kuna, and another 360 million kuna is being processed. So another third. Two-thirds are so far that they've used what's being processed. So here's some data that's true, these are facts and I had to say it. And since something about Zadar County has been said here, I'll say it too. I think Zadar County is among the most active in the preparation and implementation of pre-accession funds. Up until now, about 33m euros of pre-accession funds have been withdrawn. As for prepared projects, let's just say for the University of Zadar around 230m euros have been prepared, all of which total about 900m euros. So, sort of, I just wouldn't want to, and we often hear it here independently from who, it doesn't matter, the flat-rates, so here's what we need to say is what are and what is the situation when it comes to the organisation of these funds from pre-accession funds. I'd like to, I'd like you to realize more and more, I'd like you to realize more, really, because I think we all need it and that's good. And that's why I'm gonna cheer, but the way things are right now, it's still gonna have to be seen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11096	Thank you, too. We have reported five replicas to your exhibit. Let's get this straight. The reasons for the replica was reported by the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11097	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, colleague Calmeta, you mentioned two key things. Those units of local self-government that were well organized and well prepared to say so, trained to withdraw pre-accession funds had great results. As was the case with the city of Zadar and Zadar County. Because pre-accession funds are nothing more than preparation and training for withdrawing funds from the EU funds. However, it is not good, it is not good when we in this assembly ignore facts that no one can dispute, which is that the two of us for PHARE in 2005-2006 had a withdrawal of over 96%. That when we talk today about pre-accession funds and when we say that only 40% is withdrawn, we forget that this process is ongoing, given that it's a large amount. You contract one project, the percentage jumps by about 20, 30 percentage points. However, when we talk about pre-accession funds, I think for Croatia, for Croatian citizens, for entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia, it is far more important for local self-government units that the Government is currently working to withdraw funds from EU funds, which should practically start at the end of next or early 2014. There is a single body in the government that coordinates, once every month the head of the European Commission in Zagreb was also called to report to him at what stage we are in. In principle, the body is forcing local self-government units to run for projects and in such a way that we finance something from EU funds, that we do not have to use our own budget funds. But to cover up the poor work of that coordinating body for which in the last six months, we haven't heard once what it's doing, something that's begging stories is attacking.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11098	Thank you very much. At the presentation of the respected representative of Bozidar Kalmeta, there is a respected representative Đuro Popič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11099	Well, then, a colleague actually presented the essence and denied most of what we heard from a respected representative when she spoke about the use of pre-accession funds. Well, here we go, if we've done anything right, and obviously in this debate, as we've heard from this other side, there's a little bit of what's good about it. We have completed our negotiations, and all you do to the laws that come into this House are actually trying hard to jeopardize this last, last stage, which is ratification of the contract. And I ask you no longer to pass laws to the Parliament that will endanger the conclusion of that approach path. And as for the investments themselves, we've been listening, so for the start of this government, since the first vice president hundreds, hundreds, hundreds of tenders will be called, 5 and 6 months or 01.04. so if that's not the case then I'll actually think about whether to speak, interpret his words, "I'll think about giving me a place in this government." Competition 0, so he said by 9 months if you can't see it, and who doesn't see a strong economic step, I don't know what I'm going to do in this government, obviously big 0. So, of course, he expanded his promise to do so at the end of the 3rd month next year, so probably if the government survives until then, we will again listen to some new deadlines when it will actually be Croatia's economic recovery.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11100	Thank you very much. Next, the next replica and replica of the respected representative of Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11101	Thank you, Vice President. Since you mentioned only partial success related to Croatian railways, certain relations and railways, I would still like to warn you as well as the public about the fact or situation in which the Croatian railways are located today. Only at 18% of the total length of our tracks, the maximum permitted train speed is equal to the designed speed. For train speeds of 160 km per hour, only 4.15% of the total length of the trackway is possible. While at a speed of 100 kilometers per hour, it's equally small 12%. Commercial speeds in freight transport are unacceptable 25 kilometers per hour, and in passenger speeds of 45 km per hour. Even worse is the state of the station wagons and turns. Most railways were built more than a hundred years ago. The drain system has not been restored and today not many shares are out of operation. The capital remont network is late to 1800km of network, questioning the survival of railway lines. Contact Network... Substations and sectioning facilities are about 35 years old and the prescribed recovery of the contact network every 8 to 10 years has not been carried out due to lack of financial resources. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We could still cite problems in the Croatian Railways, so I say this is a partial statement of some successes that are unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11102	Thank you very much. And a response to the replica of the esteemed representative of Bozidar Calmeta.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11103	That you've listed everything except for the purchase of tilt trains that was a great job, which is in HZ,... Listed etc. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But I agree in one with you that the situation in HZ is not great and that you need to find a way to primarily infrastructure, and then also mobile capacity to improve, edit, fix, etc. etc. We, we did as much as we could and we knew, I think we did, when it comes to railroads, now we've moved on to another topic, but here's a very short one. I think we've done a lot of work, and we've saved jobs, and we've renovated the railroad, and we've got a rolling stock, and so on. etc. with all that and reduced the issue from the state budget. You did, though, reduce another 500 million to already reduced editions from the state budget for the Croatian Railways. Now, here's what he said before, fellow Milosevic, when you know better. If it gets better, I'll be the first to admit it's better, but I don't think it's going to be any better than it's going to be worse.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11104	Thank you very much. The next replica is the replica of respected MPs Ingrid Antičević Marinovic. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11105	My colleague, when you were just talking, I think you were the most watched and I was talking about how unfortunately we missed the opportunity to withdraw more funds from pre-accession funds, you were saying that I was the one who was the one who was the one who was talking about it. I've been using data that you can be sure of the good part of the report that we're discussing today, and all the data that one political party has not published, this party or she, from the position or opposition, are relevant data that you can see on web pages.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11106	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Bozidar Kalmeta.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11107	My colleagues didn't say you were speaking casually, I said that you often heard in the House of Classes, so I didn't say it was you. I just said it and I checked it out before I said it by calling the mayors of Zadar County, I said 33m euros have been withdrawn from pre-accession funds so far, that it is in preparation for about 900m euros, and only 230m on the Zadar University programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11108	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11109	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Calmeta, you encouraged me to do one line by mentioning exactly one program that's happening today. Speaking of the use of the IPA program, you also mentioned the reconstruction of the railway line Kukani-Novska. A contract for that reconstruction is signed today, but I would like to point out for the following reason. I want our public and citizens to hear that it's a program that's already been prepared before, that it's being realized now. And it is not only one but hundreds of such programmes prepared in the term of last HDZ government that are now coming to life. And what I often hear at least in my county from our mayor that this government is creating positive atmospheres and that all will run down to just that we haven't got another single project in our county. Here in these six months, no contests, we expect these huge competitions for 400 million kuna. When the Prime Minister was in the county he didn't promise 400 million kuna, so now I don't know where those 400 million kunas came from, probably like these telegraph columns, concrete and these powerful facades I haven't seen any of them finished.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11110	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the list of persons reported for individual discussion. I'd like the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Boris Lalovac, at the end of the closing statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11111	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here is today after the debate on the implementation of the 2011 budget in fact and before this execution we are all aware of the situation in which state finances are and what an even greater problem the economy is in. What you've said some things about this part of the slowdown let's say the decline in economic activity for the first 6 months is certainly the consequence I think they wanted you to or didn't admit is the consequence of not making decisions in the last period. Especially as you know, there's always some numbers coming in a little late so I'm surprised by this part of yours as if we've been about six months what we've done. And I'd like to ask you what you really mean by your economic recovery program that has brought that there is no unfortunately investment, unfortunately speaking. I'm not saying I'd criticize you, but I wish it was done so we wouldn't have a fall in the first part, and the fall is exclusively in energy. Most of the economic downturn is in energy. The main part of the crash is that let's say one part was both because of the drought and because of the low production from the hydroaccumulation lakes means low production, increased imports of HEP, so that's definitely one of the reasons. The second reason for the downturn in economic activity is actually the problems we have in the petrochemical industry, you know what we actually found and how we're trying to solve today's petrochemical industry issue. It's also a problem in the hardware store. I'm not saying that you're actually not looking for the culprit but I'm looking for trying to solve the problem that we're trying to solve today. So the problem of the petrochemical industry, the problem of the hardware store, the problem of shipbuilding. So these are all the industries that have been in such problems for many years as they are. Unfortunately, they haven't been restructured and today simply this picture of numbers we can't escape wanted us to admit it or not the problem of inaction and not doing the restructurings that we require. So what we have said other than the financial consolidation that we are actually going to try to implement through the implementation of the 2012 state budget are these structural reforms. The structural reforms behind them certainly bring such consequences that there will be problems at first. There will be problems with employees, you're right, we don't know if it will be, we have a problem with structural employment means where one part of the company that's here is that we've seen a problem in the liquidity where we said there are 72 thousand companies that are blocked, 43 billion kuna where you have blockades over 20 billion kuna and where there are 50, 60 thousand employees who are not at the Employment Office who are in those companies, what about them? Unfortunately, are they part of this number of unemployed? Unfortunately, they did. Unfortunately, they are because these are the problems someone will have to solve and say that if someone has been blocked for three thousand days that unfortunately we have nothing like you know from the economy what to talk about if someone's been blocked for 10 years. These are problems that need to be solved. These are the problems this government is dealing with. We'll see how successful they are, smaller or bigger, but these are all problems that need to be solved. So we're not running away from the responsibility and the bad results that are the first six months. I just don't want it to stay about incendiary. It seems like a lot. What I've told you in these structural reforms that we're doing, is that seen in the results of the first GDP? You can't see it. I agree that you can't see, but these are all the consequences we need to solve in the second part of this year and in the next years try to reverse the trend. So that's one fact. What you said about hiring some people to stand in one system, if they're told and blocked and they're not unfortunately not for growth and development, the question is unfortunately someone's going to have to say and say means and underline that line. It's a very difficult decision. Every day we actually talk to workers and these problems in businesses and trust us that here I am telling us that I come from the economic sector and it's very difficult for us to explain and find the solutions that we have. What would also be one problem if and because we are also our budgetary policy this year was that the amount of deficits should not be greater than... At recent meetings at the Council of Finance Ministers in Luxembourg where I was present and where all Member States were actually representing their national reform programmes, where I actually saw how to talk and try to solve problems and the situation is extremely serious and much more serious than we think. [[You don't understand.]] This part of the budget, which you are 4.3 or 4.1%, means we would immediately enter the European Union because the question is whether we could access the European Union funds because we do not have financial discipline. So the Government of the Republic of Croatia stands firmly behind the implementation of the State budget for 2012, firmly behind it because we have no alternative. The next year, I think, if there is no growth, there will have to be even bigger cuts because if we approach the Member States of the European Union, we need to be fiscally responsible. We are not only asked by Europe because one of us is asking us to, but we are asking that we are a serious government, that we will do what we have set up. So here's an apology if I took a little time. Let me tell you, so we don't want to put what was, it was, it just means that we're going to have a very difficult job to deal with these problems and I hope that in some of these problems where we're really going to need support and the whole public that we're going to have your support.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11112	Thank you very much. At your presentation, Deputy Deputy Minister, we have a registered correction to the incorrect allegations of the respected representative Đura Popijac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11113	Well, it's incorrect, sir, that you've realized that the measures you've taken in the last six months haven't made the economic situation worse. Yes, of course, the fact is that some things are definitely an inheritance, and we don't run away from that either. However, the problem will only be the consequences of these measures that you have now brought, so great new tax pressures, burden on businessmen, demotivating entrepreneurs and businessmen to enter new business ventures. All of which, of course, will worsen the current economic situation and lead to even greater problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11114	Thank you very much. This is what we've exhausted... Unfortunately, we didn't register, so don't be mad. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We have not exhausted a list of registered clubs and representatives for individual debates. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the reports when the conditions are met. Proposal for a Annual Report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2011. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal of the Annual Report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2011. Please raise your hand and let us know who's in. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? There is. What's the score? Thank you very much. I find that most votes, 112 votes and 3 votes have been retained The Annual Report on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2011. In accordance with the provisions of Article 111 of the Treaty on the Functioning I am voting on the Budget Act on the Decision to give consent to the Annual Report on the implementation of the Croatian Waters Financial Plan for 2011. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I find that, unanimously with 115 votes, the decision to give consent to the annual report on the implementation of the financial plan of the Croatian Waters for 2011. I am voting on the Decision to give consent to the annual report on the implementation of the Croatian Roads financial plan for 2011. By raising our hand, will we please determine who's in favor? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There is. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes 113 for, 1 abstention, a decision on granting consent to the annual report on the implementation of the Croatian Roads financial plan for 2011. I am voting in favour of the Decision to give consent to the annual report on the implementation of the State Agency's financial plan for the provision of savings deposits and the resolution of banks for 2011. Please raise your hand to plead who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There is. I'm asking for a result. I note that the majority of votes, 112 and 2 have been abstentioned by the decision to give consent to the annual report on the implementation of the State Deposit Insurance Agency's 2011 financial plan for savings and bank recovery. Next, I am voting on the decision to give consent to the annual report on the implementation of the Croatian Privatisation Fund's financial plan for 1 to 3 months 2011. I'm asking you to let us know who's in favour by hand-lifting? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There's thank you very much. The result? I find that most votes, for 112 and 3, a decision on granting consent to the annual report on the implementation of the Croatian Privatisation Fund's financial plan for 1 to 3 months 2011. I am voting in favour of the Decision to give consent to the annual report on the implementation of the Financial Plan of the Asset Management Agency for the 4th month, I believe, of the State 12. In 2011, it says state 12. Okay, from 4 to 12 months 2011. I'm asking you to let us know who's in favour by hand-lifting? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There is. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 116 for and 4 abstentions have been decided to give consent to the annual report on the implementation of the Agency's financial plan for State Property Management for the 4th month to 12th month 2011. I am voting in favour of the Decision to give consent to the 2011 Annual Report on the implementation of the Financial Plan of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. I'm asking you to let us know who's in favour by hand-lifting? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you. Are there any abstentions? There is. The result? I find that most votes, 113 for, 6 against and 1 abstentions have been decided on granting consent to an annual report on the implementation of the 2011 Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund's financial plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11207	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. We won't object to the debate being held, but I don't think it's a good idea to discuss a law that hasn't been discussed by the parent body. The amendment of the law may seem benign because it is only one article, but this reminds me overwhelmingly of the change in the duration of the Law on Achieved and Unpaid Claims in 2003. I say we will not oppose as a club to discuss this, but we think it is simply not good because this topic has been very often a topic of political subscribing, but very interesting that in the last two months the amount of debt has increased and the companies that have been blocked and those who have so strongly criticised that this is the result of someone's incompetence has suddenly been silenced. Because I think this point deserves the same attention, far more than this amendment to the law that the deadline for submitting the debt reprogramme is extended by 30 days because I don't think it's a problem within this deadline but the problem is far deeper, the crisis is far deeper and it can't be solved in this way and it simply needs to be told to Croatian citizens, Croatian entrepreneurs. One totally missed topic and a failed way of burning problems in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11208	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I thank you very much for your warning. I understand your concern, and I hope you show it in the debate. Unfortunately, we cannot avoid some of the experiences and standards that your government has introduced in this House, and also regarding this moment that we now have. So, no, I would say to the legal dictionary of an essential violation of the Rules of Procedure. The standard was introduced during the HDZ government's responsibility. We will strive to change that standard and always have the opinion of the Parliament's competent working bodies. Thank you very much. Let's move on. ... Thank you very much for your advice. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Does the representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia want to explain? Here you are, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, Mr. Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11209	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. On 28 February 2012, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on a special rate of payment of tax debt caused by the economic crisis which gave taxpayers the opportunity to reprogram the tax debt again, but now... until 31 January 2012, on a deadline extended from 30 to 36 months. [[You don't understand.]] The deadline for the application was 30 days from the date of entry into force of this law, it expired on 29 March 2012. The application of that law identified certain problems in the collection of the reprogrammed tax debt, primarily due to the period during which the measure could have reached a 30-day period and the lack of information from entrepreneurs on the possibility of paying the tax debt as determined by the measure. In order to facilitate business in order to address the problem of indivisibility, it was necessary to set a new deadline for the submission of the application for payment of the tax debt to this effect, and for a period of 30 days from the date of entry into force of this law. All other conditions remain unchanged in relation to the applicable law. It is also important to repeat that only those taxpayers who are not and reprogrammed under the applicable law can submit the request. Only a brief report means about the reprogramme and debt repayment requirements that were until 21 June until his reckoning. 8572 applications for a tax debt reprogramme have been received. The total amount of debt is 3 billion 918 thousand 598 553 kuna and 94 June. So close to 4 billion kuna in the reprogramme. So far, 3021 programmes have been approved in the total amount of debt entered into the programme amounting to billions and 104 million kunas and entrepreneurs who are approved to employ around 32,000,648 workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11210	Thank you, too. Do the representatives of the working bodies want to take the floor? I don't think so. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. We are going to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The first club to apply is the Croatian Community club and the respected representative Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11211	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister. Here's this short bill one article. Mr. Deputy Minister, in fact, put the proposal for this law in the context of facilitating the economic crisis, helping entrepreneurs fight indifference. However, the point of this proposal is that when the law was passed, the Ministry of Finance did not properly assess the required deadline, which is needed for people to simply apply to this measure. Well, I think it's kind of fair to say what it's really about. It is the fact that the legal deadline for applying for a tax debt programme was 30 days and it was too short, and did you know that it would be too short was clear when this law was passed? It is, therefore, really a technical change and a technical question that does not solve and offers no answer to the essence of the problem. Because the point of the problem is that we are in June today, for example, that this measure on the tax debt reprogramme has been brought twice, that it is safe in 2011, and probably in 2012 has now given some space to the part of the taxpayers to whom the debt has accumulated due to the crisis. However, none of these laws offer, and especially not this one article offers real instruments for reducing and leaving the crisis. Of course, there have been a lot of speeches these days, but I would also like to repeat it in this place, and many have talked about it in the previous debate. The increase in taxes and the introduction of new taxes that occurred over the past six months burdened entrepreneurs, sent a clear signal that the Croatian government sees the entrepreneur and sees his role. And therefore, very difficult this 30-day extension will reduce and undo the negative effects of economic policy, which in the last 6 months has been characterised by an only increase in taxes, the introduction of new taxes, which clearly signalled that it is not worth investing, that it is not worth working because then ultimately taxing dividends, interest not if you keep money in the bank. And there has been talk today about how in 2009, when the crisis was at its peak, how new taxes were introduced. Right, it's true and there was talk that maybe it wasn't the best way. But those taxes have been abolished in the meantime, and the question remains. If the introduction of new taxes at that time may not have been the best way to go, then this government has gone again with new taxes by introducing and increasing taxes. It basically made a strategic mistake, because it lost that potential and patience and the trust it had at the beginning of the mandate to start structural reforms, to raise the issue of reforms that would lead to a lasting and further reduction of expenditure. What we talked about in the previous point, further stronger and even more intense expenditure reduction, and I am talking about reforms that are related to rewarding, rewarding for success at work, with greater health efficiency, with greater efficiency of public administration and its cheaper and better functioning. Unfortunately, there are no such questions and such discussions here. These reforms are not simple, and instead of talking about them, the patience of citizens and some sort of maneuvering space of entrepreneurs has been spent through new taxes. And of course it will be very difficult as you said, Mr. Deputy Minister, to deal with this in the coming period because it is obviously necessary. However, time is spent. So it's not a problem in the last 30 days. Apparently, the legislator made a mistake when the original law was passed in February, he made a mistake in assessing the deadline it takes for entrepreneurs to apply to this measure. The problem is that this measure does not affect the essence of the problem and does not bring at least one, at least the first instrument towards exiting the crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11212	Thank you, too. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations reported, the esteemed representative of Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11213	Well, I'd like to correct the incorrect assumption that introducing new taxes actually makes it difficult for the economy. On the contrary, they were reduced by 2 percentage points for health insurance, thus reducing the labour price and thus operating costs. There have been further reductions in some so-called. non-taxable income. So what we have already had a decrease further decreases, which in one part would increase the cost of investment. During HBOR and this year, interest rates were reduced by 1%, but it was extended and... a period of credit, increased and manuality, e.g. for tourism at 17 years, which is some kind of objective payment deadline for such investments for reinvested profits. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that, the dividend tax doesn't really mean an increase in costs because it's a profit derived from a non-reinvested company, and then it's normal to pay at least the average tax to be paid at the labour price.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11214	Thank you very much. I've been informed there's been some kind of breach of the Rules of Procedure. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11215	Well, yes, it would be the Parliament's Rules of Procedure and it would hurt the article, as my colleagues who understand better suggested to me, 209. Because Mrs. Zgrebec did not correct the incorrect assumption that it would require a few words, but by commenting on the debate she organised her own new debate which has a form of replica, which I cannot answer now.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11216	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I must tell you that you have not found any breach of the Rules of Procedure, and neither have I. Therefore, it is for now and it is gone, so we will conclude the debate on the subject. And it appeared on behalf of the proposer of Deputy Minister of Finance, respected Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11217	Thank you, Vice President. Just briefly on your exposure actually to explain to you the way you said it wouldn't, I agree that, this part of what we've brought today and why we've brought it, maybe I wasn't quite perhaps clear in the way of proposing. Yeah, this part again where we gave the possibility of reprogramming isn't about actually being in the first part of it that we gave too short a deadline but the truth was one problem related to why we gave it. Because we felt that the Financial Business Act that was supposed to be the law that was already going to be, that is, next week that it would be debated in this House of Commons, we felt that it would be much earlier in the parliamentary procedure. However, in the making of this law we actually had, let's say different views in the debates, so unfortunately the reason why we give the entrepreneurs one more chance is because the law that was supposed to be released in two readings didn't go through the emergency procedure because it's one extensive law and we would like to have consensus and social partners in that part, meaning that we should actually replace this part of the reprogramme of the constant debt reprogramme. So this isn't gonna work out. So what you've noticed is that here yesterday and today I've been here with you all day, so we're trying to be active and proactive in doing this part, especially in the problems that we find in the economy. The reason why this part of the law is one part because the Financial Business Act was not passed until 15.07. And I'm personally equally unhappy with the deadlines why he's not, but I say we've had a lot of technical problems. Why will it be just the first reading next week, and that's one of the laws where we would try to consolidate this part of the economy in a way where we're actually going to try more comprehensively to solve this individence problem. So this is just another measure before the law is passed that we actually give the entrepreneurs a breath before the new law is passed where we would actually expect a debate, a public debate and all the social partners that we know in this adoption, proposed in this new law, the Financial Business Act that let's say a new practice on our market where we actually tried to see the best practices outside as they happen. So, let's try to consolidate the entire economy. What's true is that this whole year we're going to try to consolidate the economy, solve structural reforms, and this is just another part of the way out means before the law comes. I'm, I'm also personally dissatisfied with why this law didn't come before, but here's the thing, unfortunately, there were problems. And here's why the main reason we're giving it another chance before the law comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11218	Thank you, too. Let's continue to discuss the club law proposal. It is now up to the club of Croatian Labourists and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11219	Dear Vice President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We discussed this law on February 22nd in this House, we are discussing today, and this debate today is unnecessary to think ahead of February. Rule is art and it's a matter of art here. He says the deputy minister is waiting, this law must be passed because this other law is pending and this law must be passed. So the government is completely out of sync. Left doesn't know what he's doing on the right. That's pretty unserious. We've already said no haste, we've warned, we've been praying, we haven't had an emergency procedure, we've given you two readings, and while you're already in the emergency procedure, we've seen several times when the laws were passed in a hurry that we haven't started the pay phone yet, we've already got amendments on the table. The government is making amendments to its own proposal. The truth is only one article is changed, but it is known that one wrongly used point can lead to a loss of head. And because of one article, I can lose my business heads, so I can use that expression, people who do business. And the most important thing is that they hire workers, the most important thing is that these workers retain their working status, that they receive salaries, that they practice, that they take care of their families. On February 22nd, when we debated in this House, we warned that we should see whether tax evasion was necessary, that is, whether those who are reprogrammed tax debt are those who are really in financial trouble, in financial problems because of the economic crisis or those who have drawn money from their businesses and used it for something else, for their private needs or for investing in other businesses. We are witnessing that many, not all of them, but many business people have just used illegal actions to empty their businesses' accounts and not to pay government taxes and other charges. So the Croatian Labour Party Club suggests you do not extend to 1 month, extend to 3 months until autumn. Don't let us discuss this same law again on September 15th or that this change doesn't actually result in any result because it's really going to be a waste of business. And this home when it discusses things that go around doing Benign really loses authority. You yourself know how the assembly goes in the polls, in the eyes of Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11220	Thank you, too. The next club of representatives, the HNS club and respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11221	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The government's sensitivity to the economy that has been criticised in the debate on the General Tax Law is clearly seen through this bill. Absolutely accepts the state of found indifference, inherited indifference, inability of certain legal entities to react with the delay we had at 2 and 3 months, and once again giving opportunity, the opportunity to postpone all their debts to the state for 36 months. To be able and able to report to competitions, especially from the public sector, in energy, in those capital investments of energy in which there were -7% last year. Although there is a lot of room to start the economy through the special Ministry of Economy and Croatia's electricity industry. It's one of those laws that comes out in the light of the state of the founding economy. There's been a lot of debate about not doing anything. Well, on behalf of the HNS Club, I have to repeat what this government is, but also what the coalition majority in the Parliament has brought in to facilitate and improve the situation in the economy. It's already been said, but I'll do it again. The reduction of 2 per cent on health insurance, which is a total of 2.5 billion less burden in the economy. The reduction in water compensation and compensation for forests of 50%, investment, or the release of payments to all those reinvesting that profit, invest further in the development of employment. The reduction of public spending clearly defined in the budget by 2 billion exclusively through the rationalisation of unnecessary costs. The restructuring of public, state-owned companies is on the way. HAMAG, the Ministry of Small Enterprise has secured both guarantees, and loans and is expected to be the total amount and the number of loans higher 3 times the last year, or as much as you had in the last year and the last three, we will probably be in this year and realised, if not exceeded. Credits from the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development in cooperation with banks agreed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, at a rate of 3 to 3.5% for all exporters, for the tourism sector. The funds from 3 to 3.5% for trade capital, for all those who have a chance, who have the possibility of further developing, that they may be inhaled in this severe economic crisis. That's the result of this government. The state and state-owned companies, however, have not yet passed the Financial Business Act, but they have a provision, a guideline, a decision by the government to pay their commitments to entrepreneurs neatly in the currency. And that is more than 75% of the total income, i.e. transport in the Republic of Croatia. That's what we did, and he's going to do what's going to happen, and by passing the Financial Business Act, that's also going to be regulated legally. The general tax law from which we discussed in the previous point clearly prevents unfair competition, those who do not pay taxes, they are unfair compared to those orderly, to those of quality. Stimulating citizens, investing in solar energy up to 30 kilowatts, ensures that citizens of the Republic of Croatia are privileged producers of electricity. To enable craftsmen and entrepreneurs, across the Adriatic, throughout Croatia, to be producers, to pay this investment agreed with banks without their guarantee, as privileged producers that they can have a guarantee to repay credit, to save energy. But for the first time in the history of this Republic of Croatia, it is thanks to the Ministry of Economy that citizens will receive funds and incentives because they are energy-efficient. What about the found, someone mentioned, the gray economy? So who created it, who allowed it? Well, it's probably someone who's ruled for the last eight years, which is by some statistics 29%. And there's a big space and, of course, a expectation, and I believe that, even though we have laws and measures this year that could be contained, reduced and regulated. So the HNS Club welcomes and supports the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11222	Thank you, too. We have a request to correct an incorrect quote. Dear representative Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11223	Thank you very much. Well, it's incorrect that only now, recently, public enterprises have been given orders to pay in time. We have the law that passed this House, which regulates payment deadlines and which everyone is obliged to abide by. However, the Croatian Railways Society cannot abide by either the law or the decision. And that's why it's due to suppliers and it's becoming more or less a public secret, and it's in a difficult financial situation. It's simply because they've been cut off from the budget, and they haven't taken any further, the ones I've been talking about, so on. structural reforms. If the costs of operations of the Croatian Railways were to be reduced, in order to justify this transfer, this reduction of transfers from the budget. Therefore, the budget is not reduced by what is written on paper, but by real measures and reforms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11224	Thank you, too, Your Honor. It is now up to the respected representative Josip Salapic and the HDSSB Representatives' Club. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11225	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. There's another one in front of us that we can say free tax law. Yesterday afternoon, we discussed a whole set of tax laws. We agreed more or less that the state should give entrepreneurs a chance in particular under the terms of the financial and economic crisis. But also respected colleagues and colleagues can freely say on behalf of the HDSSB Club that we expected more from the Government of the Republic of Croatia than SDP, HNS and partners. Today, Mr. Deputy Minister says that I am personally not pleased that today we are extending the deadline to the entrepreneurs for another 30 days because of the so-called. non-information on how to pay the debt, delay the payment of 36 months. So the deputy minister explained that it wasn't just about that, it was about that the Financial Business Act hadn't been passed yet, and it was supposed to be. We have been distinguished colleagues and colleagues for more than 6 months now from the new convocation of the Croatian Parliament, and we have had situations that we once went home at 15, 16 hours because we had nothing to discuss or deal with the moves of the former government and attacked that what the former government did was not doing well, that the arrival of the new government would be getting better in Croatia, and we see that Croatia is getting worse and that problems and entrepreneurs are coming back but also Croatian people and citizens... in Croatia are becoming harder, harder and harder to live. The HDSSB club expected much more from the Croatian government. We support the adoption of this law because we said yesterday in the debates that entrepreneurs are primarily those who hire citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia should be given an opportunity to help in the troubled economic situations in the Republic of Croatia and in the environment of the European Croatian but in the country itself. But yesterday, when we discussed the General Tax Law, we discussed the opportunity to see that there are absurd situations, that the state owes itself, that the state in some companies does not pay its own taxes, that it does not meet its own obligations because it is not able. We also accept that it is a matter of workers and that jobs should be preserved, but we also accept that the burden of the even burden of the distribution of the crisis should be applied to all. I was talking yesterday about a sample of the Bizovaske spas, the state built a complex owned by the Republic of Croatia's 99%. 12 years each year 10 million kuna loss. 21 thousand squares to be heated in winter with gas, so 100, 200 thousand kuna gas bill, you need to warm up the pool so people can swim in pools, come to therapy and to treatment but you also can't make enough income to pay those bills to the state-owned company. Then a state-owned company threatens to rule out the same state-owned company that if within 30 or 60 days it does not pay the debt there will be gas, electricity, electricity. Then the state lends itself a loan to collect its company's claim to the state-owned gas company, Elektroprivredi, Vodavod, INA in a certain part while the INA was state-owned, and then again a pile of debt to what the state itself has borrowed. At the same time, the company doesn't have the money to pay taxes and contribute to the state, and that's how we spin in a vicious circle. Dear colleagues and colleagues, this bill should be adopted but a clear message should be sent, that the people of the Republic of Croatia expect more from the Government, that concrete laws and concrete measures will help the economy because if the economy continues to fall in this trend in which you have continued, started or started or did not start these 6 months, you will do nothing and unfortunately those who have voted for changes in Croatia will get nothing and again the burden of the crisis, the burden of problems here today with entrepreneurs to fall on workers and from workers to their families, and with families to growing and greater poverty and to an increasing number of unemployed. These are moves expected from you and from the government of the Republic of Croatia, as well as from the ruling majority in the Parliament. We support this law but ask you more, we ask that the Financial Business Act be reached in the Croatian Parliament as soon as possible. We do not need to go on vacation 15. if in Croatia it is not good. There are problems, there is a people who expect better, and there is a government that needs to meet those expectations. It's not like that for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11226	Thank you, Your Honor. We move to a debate of 10 minutes, a single debate of MPs, and a respected representative, Ivan Shuker, signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11227	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister of Finance. Apparently a small change in the law, however, a change that raises a number of questions that we have not received in the debate in this House on the original law. And something that is clear here today, that even then a tax debt structure was not created, there are no broken down taxpayers who, because of the economic crisis, have fallen into difficulties, but also have several reasons. Because I think that both Croatian entrepreneurs and respect for them and the Croatian public need to make one fact clear, so who normally won't pay taxes and contributions to the state if the interest is 14% tight and at the same time can be owed by 5% or 6% or in any other way. Therefore, there have obviously been certain anomalies and that is why there is no obligation to the state. However, when we talk about helping entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia, then I ask us all here, we helped them when we raised their electricity 20%, when we raised their gas price 30%, when with a variety of changes in value added tax their cost if they wanted to remain competitive on the market will certainly increase and a series of other disadvantages that occur in this country. It is well known that 67% of the blocked companies that have increased from 40 billion to more than 50 and about 20 if we are talking about the nominal amount of the company without any employees. And that's what I used to say when I was a minister and later as a parliamentary representative. We have a personal identification number, we have amended the Law on the Court Register and the basis of that amended Law on the Court Register over 50,000 companies established under the old law had to change their registration to the Court Register and thus eliminate over 80% of those who do not pay their obligations to both the State and others for some other reason, but come into certain problems, open up a new firm and go so on. So today and the first Deputy Prime Minister offers a rescue solution, one big company that is in trouble we will separate from that company one company and it will continue to operate and you dear creditors who expect to be paid from that company something hang that cat on the Republic of Croatia and you will be left without it. Among other things, that company is a taxpayer. What kind of message are we sending? Why did I say on behalf of the club that we would agree to this debate but that it was not discussed on the parent board and that this law reminds me irresistibly of another law that the same coalition passed in 2002. And then, you can look in the archives of this High House, you'll see there's a 24-billion tax debt in 2002. About 24 billion tax debt. Take that over the past 10 years the average tight rate has been between 12 and 14% so count on those 24 billion so you'll see what... What the effect of that law was, you know, how big a tax administration job that practically ignored all the jobs, did it, and didn't effectively charge 1 billion kuna. [[You don't understand.]] And what a certain settlement has been reached is questionable how and under what conditions. So we should have learned something from that example. Then let's look at who's what he's been up to, and we'll see that the problems are exactly the same. As long as in Croatia, you, if someone owes you something and if it's white and if you sue him and if you don't settle this dispute within a month, two days we'll be here fighting left and right about indifference. But everyone, no matter what political option you belong to, but I speak here on behalf of the entrepreneurs, all of them are primarily looking for legal certainty and it can't happen that your court dispute has been going on for a few years, and that's what brought us into this whole story. Why, if we're talking about having some red lights and it's a project that someone else did, and someone else is bragging about him, why don't you use the OIB. Why does the High Court of Commerce not execute the register under the new Law on the Court Register, these 50,000 companies, and you will be opened up to a clearly beautiful person who is in debt and who is with whom... Because look, if a certain state-owned company, and since 1.6.2009, they were all within 60 bottoms of their payments, and HEP has, for example, gone to over 120 days of its liabilities until the government granted it this loan that granted the last one, if the state does not fulfil its obligations, then suppliers will carry out their obligations to the State. [[You don't understand.]] So there are a number of open questions and we with these 30 days and with this reprogramme, unfortunately we won't solve anything. There's something here, my colleague Zgrebec will remember that because we've often argued about it, and that's the provision in the State Budget Act when there was the possibility that the R & D would be paid for 10 months to those who find themselves in certain problems and cannot settle their tax debt. The SDP club was then a priority against this, and we are talking about the scale and possibilities at the time when economic growth in the Republic of Croatia was over 5%. So unfortunately let's not get too tired and laminate with that 52 billion, we'll say we've left 40 and so much, now it's 52. In this way we will not do what is our obligation to the citizens and entrepreneurs of the Republic of Croatia, which is to make life easier for them at these difficult times and to make their business easier. Or, the model via HBOR A, B and C. Since the first application of model A, we have clearly come to a knowledge that is later seen through the model A+, and you can see today and through the programs served by this Kukuriku coalition, that unfortunately most entrepreneurs cannot offer collateral to raise credit, that they are low capitalised and that this is the real problem at this point for entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia. If you have such a problem, then the logical thing is that you can't even solve the tax debt problem. So let's not rub each other's eyes, let's not fight politically because unfortunately we're having a hot fall. When the budget was adopted, we warned that the budget cuts you propose were not paper-covered. These are the rights that someone has and until you negotiate with someone, you can't take them. It's been six months. What have we got today? A debate on Christmas, a debate on regression, a debate on the rights of people who receive salaries from the state budget. All this has been said here and during the presentation of Mr Milanovic's programme, it is also all spoken during the adoption of the budget, and all this reflects very much on this tax debt. Because if health care turns a year's worth out of the state budget, it's from direct payments that hospitals have 35 billion kuna. If we know exactly what the time limit is for drug suppliers, then we'll understand why this is some kind of chain. So with these 30 days, unfortunately, we won't get anything. It might be better if you gave it 60 days right away so that in 30 days we don't go back to the emergency law change and that summer is coming. As for us at the HDZ Club, you may have had to extend this deadline until 1.9, but unfortunately I think that you have made far more money for entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia by increasing the price of electricity and gas, with new tax burdens than you will help them with this. And unfortunately, living were then seen in 36 months which would be the effect of these settlements. Nothing better, nothing more effective than those settlements of the Law of Achieved and Unpaid Claims. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11228	Thank you, Your Honor. The reason for the replica of your presentation has respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11229	Here's a colleague, you're expressing a great doubt that any of this bill will be made. I'd remind you the same thing, I think you'll agree because once we talked about it, and before the end of the term, you've thought about it yourself. In 2004, by changing powers you abolished, your authority then abolished that only protection mechanism, it was not something spectacular, but it was still such a mechanism and insurance that an individual could not create a new company if he had left huge debts and the state on behalf of taxes, suppliers, creditors of other types and workers. It's the one that's in front of the court now, in 2004, it was one of his first measures. And Egypt was here we want fast start of new companies, and we were saying wait, let the companies start but don't make it possible for those who cheated on both the state and the workers and thus created unfair competition number 1 immediately in the beginning for others who want nothing but fair work, pay everyone what they belong to. Because in this way, since 2004, when it was abolished in the beginning, they were cut off, and it was practically impossible by law to do business because no one could deal with such ones, and there were no small numbers. Let's just think of the craftsmen. Many families are turned black. After ten years of litigation, they received a verdict. They're going to execute, there's no company, there's no one else, there's no one else in that street that lives. So, even when we were saying that, let it not apply to these people, we got the answer that there and that right can be thrown out so that he could start a company on his father, son, wife, husband, daughter. We said that every right can be misused, but let's not run to legal solutions in favor of it. I think you agree on that, and that was one big injustice. Maybe that was the way everything that happened to us later.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11230	Time. Thank you very much. And in the end, you answered? Great. Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11231	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, it's my fault I didn't raise the plate. My fellow antique, you're right, and you and I have not talked about it once. But you also know very well that you forgot to say it because it doesn't suit you that the Ministry of Finance has always been and the Priory against that decision and you know well that this law has been burned in the Parliament for several months and it is known exactly when it was made. Therefore, the OIB was introduced and it is undeniable. I'm telling you, so you're right here, and that's something I said. But you can also not say that the judgments, where they are all purely delivered within a month, that these problems would be far less, and that is also why we have introduced the OIB to eliminate various moral verticals in Croatia that have a network of companies through this or over that and simply show that those basic provisions of the Law on Direct Relations can hardly be applied to these companies because various examples can prove that they are closely linked, and that, according to tax laws in the Republic of Croatia, inspectors can do so. These are tax administration inspectors who are obliged to do so, and in order to do so, the OIB must apply. So go ahead and apply the OIB, and then you'll solve 80% of these problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11232	Thank you very much for the reply to the replica, and now the closing word of Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11233	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Now, let me answer to this part of what Mr. Honorable Representative Shucker said. So the application of the OIB is on its way. So we're still working on gathering some additional data and we're hoping that the results of the use of the OIB will be visible very quickly. Just a little bit more. So what you've actually brought up here is that I agree and the way we solve these problems is very complicated. What you said was what I said the last time. The debt of $43 billion is about 20 billion for those companies where you have no employment. How to solve this example of indifference. The first way to solve it is that you will have to have such companies that have no employees, and they have so much accumulated debt, you will have to delete them. There's simply no further dispute here, so clean up that part. The second level of resolution of the liquidity problem for those companies where you have employees, which you see that with your own burdens unfortunately will have to go bankrupt. Unfortunately, it's another part of the workers who will come to the Employment Service but it's one reality. And the third level of solving these problems is that we're going to try what I said to the Financial Consolidation Act to try that part of the debt that's in operation, so companies that have a market, have products, have their own industry that we're going to try to consolidate them and put them into the economy. So I wouldn't want to get the wrong idea if it wasn't for the Financial Business Act. So it was the Financial Business Act. It is a complicated law that actually Croatian practice does not yet know here. Why are we making such laws? Because something doesn't work in this system. So some institutions don't function in the state, and that's why the Ministry of Finance's decision to do whatever it can to try to solve this part, not just sit and that the problem itself will be solved. He won't get rid of it. So, this Financial Business Act, which means it was intensely involved, means you have to agree because in this case, not only will the state participate in the consolidation of the economy but also the banks and other creditors. So you have to change other laws like the Law on Commercial Companies, the Law on Credit Institutions, etc. There are still some legal regulations that you need to resolve to pass a law like this. So we're actually the law, so it's been working intensely. So we tried to see the best practice it has in neighbouring countries and they faced such problems. So, you're working hard on one of those laws. So this is what I told you. This is just one, so you've seen in six months with how much legislation, changes, behavior and what the government does for entrepreneurs. And that's why I'd like to subdue this part one more time, so we're really not going into any of these demagogue discussions. So, as the government doesn't stand behind entrepreneurs, we're very aware that all of us who stand here are actually entrepreneurs who pay. So, the ones from this part of you that pay the contributions. So it fills up part of the budget so we're aware of that part. And the government will do everything and the government to consolidate the economy. We'd just like it better if we left a little cleaner economy than it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11234	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. That's why we've exhausted the list of people reported for discussion on this subject. That concludes the debate on the text of the law. We'll vote when the conditions are met, and now two notices. 1. The eighth session of the Croatian Parliament Economic Committee will take place tomorrow on Wednesday 4. July of this year at 8.30 a.m. in the hall of Josip Jelačić. 1. We will now stop working, and we will begin at 15.00 hours with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Radio Television. Thank you very much. I'll see you at 3:00. The final proposal of the Act on the Completion of the Tax Debt Payments Act, caused by the economic crisis, PZ No. 109. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. By raising our hands, may we speak for the final draft of the law? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 120 votes, the Law on the Completion of the Tax Debt Measures Act has been passed by an economic crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11236	We're going back to work. - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Television, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 98; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In the case of laws, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Information, Information and Media and the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. ... Here's your colleague, Mlakar. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11237	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In view of the established agenda and the points envisaged and these sudden changes to be sought on behalf of the HDZ Club, a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11238	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, please choose your colleague Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11239	Dear Mr. Vice President, for the same reason, the HDSB Club is looking for a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11240	Comrade Vuksic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11241	On behalf of the Croatian Labour Party Club, we are looking for a 10 minute break for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11242	I'm setting a break of 10 minutes. My colleagues and colleagues are finished. In front of the HDZ Club, please choose colleague Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11244	My colleagues and colleagues. Here, although the debate was scheduled for the HRT Act, first row for Wednesday, it is important that, obviously, there is a ruling majority of will for this debate to be conducted quickly. Although as we know it was promised to be an extensive public debate. We know that this week we have also announced a civil society debate, a profession, not waiting for it to be done, and then in this assembly we discussed, but quickly with this solution, to go into debate now. However, and what concerns us much more is the fact that Minister of Culture Zlatar-Violić yesterday did not tell the truth to the Croatian Parliament, representatives of the Media Committee. Both the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public have been deceived. She said that the European Commission, given the green light, that the government respected all the Commission's remarks, and that is simply not true. The Commission notes, in particular, that the selection of the principal and the explicits suggests that a two-thirds majority should be required to avoid politicisation and political control of the HRT. In this proposal, the government did not respect the final proposal of the HRT Act, and the minister's reply yesterday was that the government did not respect the Commission's proposal, at least not fully. Instead, she said it was respected, and we just can't accept it. That the representative of the government of Zoran Milanovic thus deceives both the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian public. We ask that this document of the European Commission, already when the Government has called on it, to distribute, of course, translation into Croatian, to distribute to all parliamentary deputies and not to discuss this item of the agenda until then. It is only when we get full material and that we can be fully all parliamentary representatives and the entire Croatian public, then what is really in this European Commission's position. Once again, I want to express our dissatisfaction with the fact that yesterday we got the wrong information, completely wrong information. I hope you're aware of the weight of it, that yesterday you missed the chance to say and answer the question of the parliamentary deputies truthfully. Unfortunately, on the board yesterday you made a false claim and we're looking for, here's to have that document delivered to all parliamentary deputies before we proceed with this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11245	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club, colleague Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11246	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, dear Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. More or less everything a fellow Stier has said is true, more or less. Inaccurate or perhaps needed a more precise word, it wasn't yesterday on the untrue committee, but it was a faceless lie. We need to talk so that people understand us. So, if a minister or minister in the Government of the Republic of Croatia allows himself to lie to representatives in the Croatian Parliament, then that is equally valid or at least equally valid reason for him to step down from his duties at the same time. And we as a club advocates also express dissatisfaction, but also indignation with a few things when it comes to this point of the agenda. In addition to using lies and deceptions, which apparently become the basic feature of the work of most of this government, I will not speak to all members yet. Then we can't do the same, not realize that we're witnesses, so when it comes to this memo from the European Commission that you're trying to keep secret, which we're going to talk about, be safe in the debate. You are trying to deceive not only the representatives of the Croatian Parliament, but the entire Croatian public. You're introducing a kind of rape of democracy, is what you're doing nothing but rape of democracy? It was said after the first reading, and we didn't need a recommendation from the European Commission just because, we all concluded here together, that a broad public debate would be held before the second reading. Isn't it a shame, two things, that today's application was put on this agenda item after all the representatives' clubs received at least one public call for a round table to be held on Thursday 5th, in 2 days. We received all calls to participate in the organization of the round table, that is, the round table organised by the civil society, the Croatian Helsinki Committee. And most of the clubs would probably be involved in that. Why are you afraid to hear that the representatives of civil society, and you have called so much in the previous term while HDZ was in power, that the voice of the people should be heard, and civil society is the voice of the people. And besides this is really extremely hypocritical that now that the call has arrived we need to conclude today the debate on this bill, then what about the round table the day after tomorrow? You mock this decision to argue today before the round one, therefore, you mock the representatives of the Croatian public. And finally, an attempt to discuss this in this time frame, this is so important for the Republic of Croatia, for media freedoms in the Republic of Croatia that it's almost incredible to put it in the afternoon. Yes, we know that Croatian television broadcasts this and it is normal to transmit. However, it is also a fact that this part of the agenda was supposed to start as the first point in the morning because there is something to discuss all day, not from three hours now until I know when. And for this reason we express our indignation with this relationship not only to the opposition in the Croatian Parliament, not only to the representatives of the Croatian Parliament, but to the entire Croatian public. And I call upon you, Madam Minister, after you have told a lie to give your term of office at the disposal of the Croatian Government and the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11247	Thank you. Before I give my word to the Croatian Labourists, I would just like to remind myself, the consolidated agenda for the continuation of the 4th session of the Croatian Parliament was delivered at a time from which it was visible when the debate on the final proposal of the Law on HRT would be held. Furthermore, I would like to ask my distinguished colleagues and colleagues, and this concerns currently Mr Buric, you have injured Rule 214. I have not issued a warning, but I will be forced to do so in the future. On behalf of Croatian Labourists, colleague Branko Vukšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11248	Your Honor, Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Here we held yesterday a session of the Committee on Information, Information and Media and the truth is on the board we were deceived. I just feel humiliated, I feel uncomfortable, I'm sorry that it's done to MPs in the Croatian Parliament and I just can't figure out why it's done. First of all, this is an important topic, this is an important topic to discuss when we speed up other topics, and now we're going back up, there's nothing else, so we're going to talk about HRT. When I spoke last week or ten days ago about HRT, I said HRT was as important as CNB. Those who don't realize it will realize maybe when it'll be too late. HRT is the only tribune in which politicians will be able to speak when large capital is mastered by all media, and mostly all media is held in their hands. HRT is not only important for us politicians, it is the least important, it is important for the Croatian public. If HRT is public which it isn't, I claim it isn't, and this law confirms those words that now what the clues of that public destruction are, then we must obey the public. We ruled out the public legally from this decision-making process, and now that we've said that between the two readings we're going to have some kind of public debate, we haven't had a public debate just served those ten days in two, three technical corrections. I believed until before the adoption and work on this law that there was still a word and that there was honor of the MPs and that what was said and in 4 eyes were represented by the people or ministers who were also elected by the MPs or who were elected on the lists themselves, that they should be trusted by the people. But now I don't believe, now as far as politics is concerned, I've become a faithless man. We asked in the final word I asked Minister Zlatar to answer two questions. If he agrees that the principal director is elected by a two-thirds majority and agrees with the government, not the minister himself, that the opinion of journalists in selecting the editor-in-chief is binding. That's two of the most important things. There, the Kukuriku coalition would show that it is really up to democracy, that it is really up to the public, that it is really up to Croatian citizens and that it really respects and respects even the fact that citizens pay 80 kuna a month. But that didn't happen. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, I also ask that the debate be postponed, that a public debate be held on Thursday and that this be postponed next week. And I would also like to say that I am disappointed with the minister's position yesterday on the board and would also like to join the HDZB's request to offer its mandate at its disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11249	Thank you. We have on your exhibit a correction of an incorrect assumption. Representative Boris Blazekovic called. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11250	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Namely, I was on that committee yesterday, and I don't feel deceived at all, and my colleague Vuksic didn't say what this deception was about. So I'd like to pray that at least then in his debate he says what the content of that renewal is.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11251	Thank you. We're going back to work. All conditions for discussion under that item of the agenda are met. Here's your colleague, Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11252	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. On behalf of the HDZ Club, a colleague of Stier spoke and asked to postpone the debate on this agenda point and asked for material to be shared, a letter from the European Commission translated into Croatian so that all MPs would be familiar with the content and opinion of the European Commission regarding this law. I ask you to decide on this proposal before we continue the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11253	I don't know if anyone, we didn't get the material, I agree, but I don't know if it's an obligation. Material, the final draft of the law we have received, I can only point out that the proposal, the legal proposals to choose, is what may be controversial to you that is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, I find that all conditions are for discussion. I can't. I won't give you my word. You received the reports at the session. I've read the committees that held the debate before. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Madam Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11254	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. First, I will explain the differences between the solutions that were given in the draft proposal and discussed in the first reading of the Assembly compared to the differences between the two readings. After that, I will answer these questions concerning yesterday's Information Committee and the comments on the way in which I presented the European Commission's letter. I note at the very beginning that according to the rules of our communication, the Ministry's communication with the European Commission is not at all authorised as a ministry to provide European Commission documents to the public. Not that we do not want to but we are not authorized and our communication with the European Commission goes through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and through a delegation to Brussels. So in that sense, we got such instructions directly. Do you think I can go on? Okay. As regards the difference between the solutions proposed by the final proposal in relation to the solutions set out in the draft law and the reasons why these differences occurred. After considering all the comments made at the assembly session, as well as at the working bodies' meetings, following an analysis of the observations which occurred in the continued public debate which continued to be opened on the Ministry's website, they were adopted following an analysis of certain comments and proposals. First, given the inaccuracy of whether editors are selected by public tender or not, although this is specified in other acts, it is prescribed in this second final proposal that the editor-in-chief of HRT and the editor-in-chief of individual programmes are selected on the basis of a public tender. It was clear from the first time this time explicitly. In this way, a transparent way of selecting the main editors and editors of individual programmes is fully ensured. New provisions have been added to ensure that the Croatian Supervisory Board and the Croatian Council can be established when most of the Croatian Supervisory Board and the HRT Council are appointed, thereby ensuring the smooth functioning of those bodies. Some changes concern the deadlines themselves. It has been extended from 15 days to 30 days in which the Croatian Supervisory Board and the HRT Programme Council may be made clear of decisions and acts by other bodies, giving more time for the quality of the representation of the bodies concerned and those bodies. The transitional provision also amended the time limit within which the Information, Information and Media Committee of the Croatian Parliament is to propose to the Croatian Assembly the appointment of the Director-General and shall be suspended from 30 days to 8 days, counting from the date of entry into force of this law. Similarly, as regards the proposal for a contract delivered to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it is stated that the proposal will be submitted before the signing of the opinion of the HRT Programme Council and the Croatian Supervisory Board to be elected under this law. Therefore, the deadline was extended to 15 December. If the HRT Council and the HRT Supervisory Board are not informed of that contract proposal within 10 days of the request for the signing of the contract, it may be accessed without their opinion. In this way, we want first of all to enable the newly elected authorities to participate in the establishment of the content and programme obligations for the contract between the Government and the HRT since it is not a one-year temporary contract but a five-year contract that binds us by the end of 2017. I would now finally refer to a letter from the European Commission dated 28 June. Unfortunately, I don't have a transcript of yesterday's session that you all know was very short and that in the reasons we were very short for the term shortness because the session of the Parliament began. If it had been requested, I would have read the entire text, but I repeat, we have explicitly received a request not to distribute these materials as a ministry ourselves. The letter of the European Commission can be divided into two parts. The first part expresses the satisfaction of the changes adopted in the differences in the first draft of the law and concerns, above all, the status of the principal director, the fact that the strict conditions for his appointment and the fact that the provision is deleted that, based on one-year reports, he can be replaced in a brief procedure. It is equally pleased that, with the reduction of powers, the criteria for his election are strengthened. In the second part of the letter and that's what I said yesterday on the board, Mrs... Reiterating what is known from the previous letter, which is that knowing and bearing in mind that the practice of appointing and selecting the principal director at radio television stations in Europe is not uniform, that in its comments and recommendations I must warn you that all the formulations in this letter, formulations in the context and formulations in the recommendations and not in the requests. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As a result, I absolutely do not think that there has been any public deception and that in that part it reiterates the remarks made for the first time, as regards the recommendations for the selection of the principal director to be in the two-thirds majority. I would like to look back at the case of the 2010 law and the choice of the law, which we have very often called for in the debates both on the working bodies and here. When it was voted in 2010, there was a consensus. However, the vote on the law itself and I must say that two-thirds of the majority in the assembly were mentioned on two levels. It was mentioned as mandatory to vote on the law itself. This remark is given by the fact that our Constitution prescribes which laws apply to the provision of a two-thirds majority in the Assembly. The second level at which the two-thirds majority is mentioned concerns the selection of the director himself. So it's inside the text, so it's not the status of the law, it's the election status of the chief director. In the previous 2010 law, and this was the only place where the two-thirds majority were mentioned when it was said that the principal director was elected by the two-thirds majority of the members of the Governing and Programme Council. I note, however, and this was part of the discussion yesterday on the board that the way in which both bodies and the Programme and the Board were composed was in the law an explicit quotation between the position and the opposition where it was again clear in which the party that is in the ruling position was in whatever position you are counting. And secondly, if the debate was also held yesterday since Mr. Cicak was present who cited his idea of how civil society should participate in the work of the Programme Council, I must say that this refers to that part of the letter from Brussels, which mentions the non-two-thirds majority, but also to the categories outside the political decision-making process, mentions the participatory decision-making and fair, or just decision-making. So, according to my reading of this text, with recommendations and condicionals and the fact that it is not only a recommendation on the two-thirds majority but also about other ways, so how fair and participatory behaviour can be ensured in terms of when and how the Programme Council is established. The opinion of the Ministry of Culture, the opinion of the legislator, is that this time the Programme Council can be established on the basis of a proposal from the representatives of civil society, which is quite clear, independent civil society experts entirely. However, given the number of registered civil society associations in Croatia, I must really say that it is impossible to make a list of qualified and to make decisions which associations and which civil society should have representatives in such a body. I think it's only thousands in our culture, education and media sector, let alone civil society organisations that cover the area of humanitarian, social, ecological or other action. So, the Programme Council is open to all candidates, but the idea of some associations qualified more important than others seems quite undemocratic to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11255	Thank you, too. Comrade Mlakar, you are immediately after I gave my word to the minister lift the plate for the breach of the Rules of Procedure and now again. Is that one injury or two? Here you are, a violation of the Rules of Procedure of Comrade Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11256	Yes, Mr. Vice President. That's one injury. I'll quote the article, Articles 208 and 209. You have been injured because regardless of the order, the MP can get his word when he wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure. I wanted to talk about hurting the Rules of Procedure. You didn't give me your word. That's why I'm calling again. What was the suggestion...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11257	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I didn't make a mistake. The Rules of Procedure were not injured at point 208 or at all at the beginning because I first gave the Proposer the word. That's when I noticed your tile, but here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11258	I'm sorry you noticed too late. I raised the tile before you gave the proposer your word. You have injured Articles 208 and 209. A Rules of Procedure which speaks of the order of giving a word to a representative who has the right to speak before others when he warns of a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11259	I find that there were no injuries to the Rules of Procedure. You have the opportunity to use a business opportunity. It means you give the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, a written objection. I'm referring you to that. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11260	I didn't finish because you've already interrupted me twice. Mr Vice-President, the proposal of the HDZ Club was to postpone the debate on this agenda point until we are familiar with the material that has arrived from the European Commission. We did not ask for the content of the document to be persuaded by the Minister of Culture but we asked for the content of the document translated into Croatian. Since we didn't get it, I'm asking you to set a 20-minute break at the HDZ Club's request.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11261	You can't have a break again. The debate goes on. All the preconditions for the debate exist, and neither has the Parliament received a proposal from the European Commission. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. First responder, Agent Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11262	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here is the minister who is incorrectly unable to share a letter from the European Commission to the parliamentary representatives. It's absolutely incorrect, it doesn't say anything. If you need to check it out in Brussels, check it out. So how do you think the National Committee followed the negotiations without having any insight into the documents prepared by the commission? How do you think Parliament and EU members are doing their job as established by the Lisbon Agreement that they cannot have insight into the European Commission's documents? I am not asking to publish the European Commission's letter in the National Journal, but to share with parliamentarians it is absolutely possible and did not do so exclusively because you did not want to, because you do not have a political will.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11263	We have another correction, but before that, we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here's your colleague Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11264	I have to react. Rule 115 has been broken. This article clearly states that the ministers, or members of the Government, are obliged to give at the request of the Croatian Parliament, i.e. all documents, all materials, and to answer all referred questions from their section. So I think what the HDZ Club was looking for certainly falls under this article. I personally have an opinion on this proposal for the Law on HRT, and I do not need an opinion from Brussels either to back my opinion or to change it, but I insist that this Rules of Procedure which are currently in force apply in this body. And if something doesn't suit you, maybe it's time for you to change it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11265	No injured Rules of Procedure, however, I also believe that the Minister will subsequently deliver this opinion to you by the European Commission. It's impossible right now. We have a correction to the incorrect quote, colleague Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11266	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The minister pointed out in her opening statement that the current 2010 HRT Act, which was adopted by a political consensus, was giving priority to the position. This is simply not true because regardless of the parities, the ratios in the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board of the main decisions had to be made by a two-thirds majority. Which means that some of the people she voted and proposed the opposition had to agree with those decisions. So do we really think that at that time in 2010, before the parliamentary elections, the opposition of SDP, HNS and others would agree with a bill that would favour the position of the then ruling HDZ party with its government-led partners? So it's an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11267	Thank you. Here you go, Madam Minister, on behalf of the motionary. I'm asking you to step outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11268	Yeah, all right, all right. I just wanted to repeat, no, it's just that we've now let it be copied on the basis of the repeated request for the formulation to be available to all MPs. I only repeat that the direct instructions we received from the European delegation in Croatia were that we, as the Ministry of Culture, should not multiply and deliver further. This does not mean that some other bodies in Brussels and here cannot do it, but it is not in our power and such instructions I have received. I'm sorry if there was a communication error. Now the document went to multiplication, you'll all get it on the table. If that's how I might have broken the recommendation I received from the delegation, I apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11269	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, representative Jasen Mesic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11270	I thought, Mr. Chairman, thank you, but I thought we'd wait for the document and then we'd start the debate, because here's the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11271	As I was saying in the introduction, all the preconditions for the debate have been met. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11272	Well, if the preconditions are met, I'm very glad to hear it. However, I would like to see the preconditions met in the public debate between the first and second readings of this law. I would like, as my colleagues said here at the beginning of this afternoon's session, that we had the opportunity to attend round tables organised by civil society. I would also like the other preconditions to be met so that, indeed, as you will see in the European Commission's recommendation, it has been taken into account and that this law has been passed with great care, with great sensitivity and with great respect for the public debate process. But since, as you say, Mr. Chairman, it's all respected, then we can proceed. I don't want to go back to what we said when we first read that this law actually opens up the twilight of public television in some way. I do not want to go back to what we said when we said that the ruling majority in the Croatian Parliament, the ruling coalition will be able to choose independently both the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council and the Director-General without any need to consult the opposition. I don't want to go back to that. Let's concentrate on those things that are as new in this second bill of law, that is, in the final proposal in the second reading. It is said that the editor-in-chief will be elected through the contest. That the Director-General would no longer be able to appoint the editor-in-chief who was one of the main remarks when we spoke in the first reading. There are mentions of the competition, but there is no mention of who, how, how and by what criteria they will implement it. It's just cheating and hiding the real truth. And you'll probably be able to read about it when the additional conditions are met, Mr. Chairman. New deadlines are being introduced. New deadlines are being introduced so that this law could be passed rapidly, at the speed of lightning before the summer break so that news from HRT would not accidentally upset members and members of the government, so as not to upset the Croatian public, so that a temporary director could be appointed before 15.07. It then extends its deadlines to 90 days so that it can call a public tender so that it has enough time to do everything within the coalition consultation and only when it's settled, when we know who it is that we have said it has to have phenomenal abilities because it will be the largest public firm in Croatia that has no administration but has only the Director-General, and then, on that matter, it will formulate a tender that will correspond almost to his ID card and his CV. And it will then be a transparent selection, as we can hear or read. It is said that no one is interested in getting involved in the programming part, to worry about the financial situation, so what about the Zagreb Holding. So for 2 years you have full authority in Zagreb Holding in all bodies, you have not moved your finger. And when requested in the Zagreb Assembly, I will remind you that by consensus decisions are made in these bodies, that restructuring programmes can be implemented, we voted equally with you. Why don't you worry about it, that you're paying the citizens of the City of Zagreb like that, and suddenly you're not worried about it? Why are you not concerned if the Prime Minister Mr Milanovic says he is not interested in the information program at all, but is interested in education and culture? Why is a new proposal for a contract between the Croatian and Croatian Government that provides for the creation of a new 4th specialized channel, which will have culture, education, art and youth programme? These months, a public debate is taking place throughout civil society, in cultural institutions trying to protect the programme. No one is overly concerned about it, no one is overly concerned that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is breaking the law of this country. You may disagree with the law, you may think the law is bad, regardless of what you voted for it, you may think that this law is not good for the future, but while you are citizens of this country, while you are officials of this country choose to obey the laws that you have voted for among other things. For months, you don't fill the bodies on Croatian Radio, you don't call competitions for months, you don't hold a competition to fill out the seats in the Programme Council, the Supervisory Board. A few days ago, an opinion could not be adopted because there were not many members of the body, and the opinion was necessary and should have been delivered together with proposals by 01/07 in the Croatian government. It is a new contract with Croatian Radio Television for the next 5 years. Everything we've told you, and I agree with those colleagues and colleagues, so it's not the most important thing that we can always read and come from Europe. But you wouldn't have said anything if we hadn't told you the same thing here, if we hadn't called you on the issue of political consensus, too. Otherwise, it has been present lately in social and political life. Many political parties, forces, around political consensus, are being called for on the country's strategic issues. At the same time, while seeking a political consensus in solving important problems in the economy, the economy, society. At the same time in the Croatian Parliament, we tear down a political consensus that has been reached. So imagine how you would react if we had set ourselves up that way, so we wouldn't be at any session present. We call, we seek a political consensus on resolving social issues, at the same time destroying the consensus that we have brought together. Isn't Croatian broadcasting a social issue a couple of excellences both in the present and in the future? Is it really necessary to pass this law in such a way that there is no open and public debate between the first and second readings of any public regular table? Is it really necessary for the European Commission to tell us about the moments, the moments that we should have observed ourselves in the law? I can keep my mouth shut at the pay phone. I don't mind. I hope the conditions are met and we move on with the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11273	My colleague Mesic, I give you a reminder, you insult the president. I ask you to stick to the future topics of the agenda, not to mention Holding or something that has nothing to do with HRT. Pre-conditions were created, please proceed with exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11274	Well, I was pulling the parallel, that's what I needed. So I can keep going?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11275	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11276	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I'm glad to see that the conditions have been restored, so that we can continue our discussion in peace. What I'm trying to tell you is, in the end, something else. I wish of course we could have had any opportunity to discuss together the media strategy in the Republic of Croatia. I wish we had the opportunity to sort of say where we wanted to see Croatian radio, see it in the future. To talk about new media strategies, talk about multimedia, talk about channel 3 and 4 and how this should work in the future. Let's talk about how we will protect Croatia's broadcasting to be a truly public and independent medium, not the voice of the party's majority. I think it would be the right place for this Parliament, its committees that could be led and where this thematic debate could be held. Unfortunately, it's not. But what matters, and that's why this law wants to be pushed out in a hurry. It's not that worry about the situation on HRT, because by implementing the applicable law you can change on HRT whoever you want. But the problem is if the current law remains in force that you can't name whoever you want, but you have to lay down such a law that you can name whoever you want on the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council and the Director General, is that he could put the editors-in-chief through the competition. If you don't believe that this is the case, that document will be copied very quickly, and then you'll be able to see for yourself, if you didn't accidentally do this, you don't trust what I'm telling you. And in the end, I want to say one more thing, especially regarding the field of culture. I had the honour of working on a period in the Government of the Republic of Croatia as minister in charge of the field of culture. In that year we had six changes and additions, which proposed new laws from the culture sector in this House. All six were adopted unanimously, and changes and additions, and a new law, all six. And there's a colleague and colleague of yours that I've been visiting, consulting, talking from the then government, the current opposition and the opposition of the current government. And I tried to make for that one specific area the best solution. Therefore, it can be achieved when there is a consensus, it can be found in all the political options of people who understand, who want and who really see in the future what I told you about, it could be this time, if they have political will.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11277	Thank you, too. We have a correction to the incorrect quote of colleague Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11278	I am correcting my fellow Mesic and it is not true that this ruling coalition and this parliamentary majority do not respect the laws of this country. It is true that you did not respect the laws of this country because if you had respected them then you would not have held the money in the party register, and you were the minister in that government that Ivo Sanader and a member of the presidency of that party today, which explains why she kept the money in the party register and did not report it to the relevant authorities. It's a violation of the laws of this country. And you kept that money for citizens and taxpayers where they don't belong.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11279	Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, I ask you to be more patient when a colleague says let him say so. What? It's a correction to an incorrect quote. You have reported to your colleague Mesic for a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11280	He injured an esteemed colleague, Dragovan, injured Article 209. Rules of Procedure. At first, he didn't say what I was saying, and he didn't correct the false assumption. I spoke explicitly about the implementation of the current HRT Act and I was talking about the government's opinion being delivered that a proposal for a contract was delivered for the next five years if you know what I'm talking about without the opinion of the Joint Supervisory Board and the Programme Council because they're simply not filled out. And that's true, and you and I can bet on it if you want, because I guarantee it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11281	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of Croatian Labourers' Club Branko Vukšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11282	Dear Vice President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Labour Party has only advocated an even more urgent procedure. I've been saying all this time that this agony on HRT was supposed to end up done before. That is why we have proposed urgent changes and we have proposed that after the urgent changes, a thorough debate on HRT and the summary legislation concerning all media. However, this was not respected, and now we have what we have. This is actually the worst media-related act in 22 years of Croatian multilaterals. When we raise our voice out of opposition against irregularities, injustices, disrespect for opposition or voter deception, and we often raise our voice because of our duty, power is ours regardless of whether it's ministers, their deputies or fellow MPs. Let's use demagogy, politics, and collect cheap political points. That's of course I said already labelling, impotence, lack of arguments. But look at the devil, those who label themselves even in professional debates serve both demagogy and politics. Each and every one of the most dangerous downsizing of democratic and professional standards justifies a flosculine, we take responsibility. When the authorities answer the criticism with the label, there is no answer to hot questions, it is a sign that the government has no solution for burning problems in Croatia. Any asphyxiation of democracy, any asphyxiation of democratic procedure, and even in the Parliament, any asphyxiation of parliamentaryism justifies the government by a flosscule, we take responsibility or we dare take responsibility. Well, that's the biggest one, which is why the biggest one in taking responsibility was Ivić Pasalic. He made many decisions and was responsible for many things. Afterwards, no one proved that responsibility to him like they won't to you. The responsibility thus takes over mainly the autocratic or autocratic authorities, that part of the dirtier part of the work on behalf of such people or such authorities performs lower and more positioned officials. Any similarity with us or with you here in Croatia is not accidental but intended. It dares to assume the courage to take responsibility for the employment of people in the country key places without competitions, to dare to put up party personnel at the top of public enterprises, it is indeed responsible. They dare because it gives them the right to interpret political prey. It's like they got a state at some prize game and they can do whatever they want with it. This is how Kukuriku is also treated by one single public Croatian media HRT, which has been devastled by all the authorities so far or by over-involved in the programme or by the intrusion of inactions, which is also a great sin. And what does this Kukuriku government do? On the one hand, it says that HRT is not interested, and on the other, it is making moves that will choke the only public media in Croatia. While Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic argues that HRT, and particularly the Information Programme, is not interested on the other hand in this amendment to the law, is subject to the same Informative Programme of Non-politicals, because we Croatian Labourists and we do not want to participate in the choking of media freedoms or in excluding the public from the decision on public television. So the government also subdues HRT and, in particular, the Information Program to one political truth to the questionable option. Look, he doesn't care about the program, but that's why he'll control it. That's the consistency. The Authority argues that these changes and additions create conditions for better functioning of the HRT body. And the bodies are the principals, and he is above all things, and above this Parliament, and let alone be above Priscilla. The second body is the supervisory board, and the third that we will be able to place in a day's time, two into not media, but the botanic body. It's about the program council. Why will only botanists be able to deal with it from now on? Because the council will be turned into a ficus. The problem of the proposed changes is not to create conditions for better functioning of the HRT body and to implement restructuring, but problems are largely like Mount Everest in the way the main editors are elected. There's a doorknob 22. The problems with these proposals are irreparable. In the asphyxiation of media freedoms, this is the most obvious act. The way the main editors will be elected or more precisely, and then all the other editors, as well as the editor of the information program, which is, whatever Mr Milanovic is saying, the most public part of public television. So the method of choice does not provide an independent editor, does not guarantee the independence of journalists. This way of choosing rain is a public that is excluded from decision-making, but remains on her back a great, greatest responsibility, paying for a TV subscription. The government is acting on that famous "your expenses and our ideas". In this case, the ideas are against those who bear the costs. The Programme Council is the key to both independence and key to defend public interests on HRT. Why does the Programme Council become a ficus and it's a wrinkly ficus? Because he doesn't decide anything. It analyzes, monitors, and what happens when it re-analyzes and what it follows. The remarks will tell whom, the editor-in-chief. And what the editors-in-chief will do, he will take note of it and watch the principal's moment, for he has appointed them, and he can do them whenever he wishes and replaces them. The Council will become a debate club, in which under this law and prescribed circumstances it will not want to sit any expert, not one representative of a civil society that holds to its dignity. An expert on all experts, superman and superintendent, editor-in-chief, übermensch will be head director. He's more careful than the whole council, he's more expert than the editor-in-chief, he's more expert than the editor, he's more expert than any journalist. Except that he's adept at journalism is an expert in business. He's very professional in that. Now you'll probably be surprised at these words that these amendments to the law are written for a specific person I'd be happy about. Why, because such a person exists in Croatia, we have, because such a person exists in the world, that it is the world. There isn't a person who has every knowledge and all these skills in him. Businessmen can't be a good judge of the work of editors and journalists every day. Not only can't he, but he can't. After all, the work of the principal director and editor-in-chief is incompatible. Business principals and editors-in-chiefs shall neither overlap nor merge, and this law shall not only permit but also prescribe it. The biggest flaw still in force is that it overlaps with the unfettered, which everyone decides on everything, which is what the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council decide together, which has interfered with the arrangement. The legislator doesn't know or wants to know what public content is on public television, or what public television is in society, he doesn't even know what kind of relationship politics and society should have, what kind of relationship HRT and the public are in. It is a great shame to argue that there are no 11 experts in Croatia and of the politics of independent people who therefore understand public television and who are not political half-trons, third-rate politicians who, after doing their job for their bosses, devote the rest of their time to their own or the interests of certain clans. The program council is the point, it's the core of public television, it's the key for the program, and the key can be if it decides on those it monitors. And it's a big mistake to drag two creators from HTV into the Program Council. This is even contrary to the spirit of this law, which prescribes that council members should not be in conflict of interest. So I can't be connected to the HRT program, but also any other TV. And in this council, the Programme Council under this law will have two newspapers or two directors or two editors who every day create a program on HRT and will be at each session every day when they do their work in conflict of interest. There will be opposition to the journalist or opposition... itself, but duality has been a feature for six months on the political scene as it was there. How the journalist in the council will evaluate his work, how he will evaluate the work of his competitors. This is absurd. Yeah, I thought one member of the council, the creator of HRT, might be a link between the council and the programming unit, but I'm more and more sure it's wrong. By removing the powers of the council, you exclude the public from deciding the character of HRT. In addition, you have slammed civil society's doors, even though you keep swearing to democracy, to citizens, in the right to media freedoms to co-determination. You have been trusted by the citizens and you can seem to do whatever you want, and you will be deposited in 3.5 years. No, we who have been chosen by the people must account every day, every day. The creators of the council will not dare speak openly, and God forbid it will be critical because they will experience retribution from the editor-in-chief, or the principal supervisor-in-chief, the censor, the main whisperers, so they were in Mrs. Ankica Mamić, either in Mrs. Zrinka Bardić's person or in person of a third, fourth and more powerful person than mentioned before. This is the third type of whisperer. For the first two, you must have heard of them and even watched them, one on film, the other on television, the third you'll just be watching behind the scenes. The third type of whisperer exists only in Croatia. With these changes, public television has lost every chance. What changed in the proposal between amendments to the HRT Act between two readings? No public debate has been held and no remarks made by the professional public, by parliamentary representatives and civil society associations have been observed. Some deadlines have been cut, and now the director imagine setting up editors-in-chiefs based on the competition. There are no binding opinions of journalists because free-thinking journalists the government is afraid. So in order to make arrangements, some MPs keep repeating themselves. How would the press agree? They're like crab children, you'd agree, but your goal is not to make a deal. The Council was composed of people who belonged primarily to political options, said many third-rate politicians, and the bosses were just hiding behind them, I agree. But let's choose a council of qualified people who won't depend on politics. Those who are counting on the council will probably put an end to the elections for this House because they have often been mischosen by the people. The intensity is seen to be clear, subdued, placed in your own function, public media. And as it could have been, it could have been different. The Parliament should have chosen the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council. The Supervisory Board was to elect the Director-General, the Programme Council was to elect the editors-in-chief with a binding opinion from the press. The binding opinion of journalists is crucial for the democratic functioning of public television. And the biggest problem, the biggest objection to this proposal to amending and supplementing the Law on Croatia's Radio Television, is that it has ruled out the public. This proposal is accompanied by a coffin that says mildly rested freedom of the media. It is introduced directly by the state-owned party censorship. Croatia's broadcasting that must be a ceiling in media freedoms will cause the media's freedoms to be completely trampled. Politics will fully govern the public media, and this is proof that we need a tutor and that what every little we get from Brussels needs to be in the imperative. And all that happened yesterday on the board and what's going on today and this skipping agenda is just proof that the intentions of this law are not honorable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11283	Thank you, too. Just a note from fellow Vuksic, there was no skipping agenda. We have a correction to the incorrect quote of colleague Marin Jurjevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11284	It is incorrect for counterpart Vuksic to assume responsibility is a matter of autocratic authority. It's really that the thesis that a man crosses either left or right. It's total ignorance, total ignorance. It is a pure demagogy of those who will never assume the responsibility of the authorities as they think they can speak or as it is said in Split that they can strike the first thing that comes to mind. And I would still recommend to everyone that this is not a literary group this is the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11285	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. Excuse me, colleague Anticevic, I didn't notice. No, no, I didn't notice. I can't give you my word, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11286	You're saying a colleague that...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11287	Comrade Antičević, I'm sorry I didn't notice that you announced the correction of the incorrect quote and I can't give you my word No, no. [[Intruder Antičević: Just a minute!]] We're moving on. You can't talk Comrade, please stick to the Rules of Procedure [[/Intruder Antičević: But then I can tell you something. I'll just say one sentence.]] No, don't stick to the Rules of Procedure. [[Intruder Antičević: So I stick to the Rules of Procedure.]] You can't talk to your colleagues, you can't talk from the bench. [[/Intruder Antičević: But I just want to say something in the future. Let me talk. I want to say something.]] Comrade Antičević, I give you a warning. You can't talk from the bench, you didn't get the word. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. On behalf of the SDP club, colleague Josip Kregar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11288	The Honorable Chairman, Minister, ladies and gentlemen. Heavy words fell, and there was an atmosphere where there was less and less talk about the law. There are many other things to talk about, statements that may indeed concern television. Maybe it's about our feelings, some of the risks the future carries, which we'll take sides with democracy or authoritarian order. But there is no word in this law, or word too little. That is why I would like to immediately conclude that the need to pass this law exists. I'm, of course, closer to my colleague Vuksic who thinks we're late. But please, that doesn't mean we're guilty of something in this proposal. I know that there is a great expectation that this situation will be resolved as quickly as possible, and this division is actually more divided into those who want the status quo to change nothing and who are as good as today and those who have promised and now advocate change. But let's get back to the law because I said there's a need for such a law. There are written and found in the document and there are unwritten reasons but notorious to all who I will say, who speak in favour of the adoption of such a legal text. Of course, in order for us to perhaps prefer a Media and Media Freedoms Act, an integral law that has been announced. But probably with this kind of obstruction and this kind of discussion won't be brought so soon. But there are some white things that relate to the adoption of this law and should be said. First of all, Croatian Radio Television Management Institutions are blocked and dysfunctional. This cannot be solved by a simple new choice of members because the current situation is also the result of a system that has shown its poor results. It is not so much about political options anymore because Croatian radio television is not controlled by any political party. No more appointments by the minister and commenting on what was said. But that doesn't mean that external and illegal influences don't, as many as ever. So last time you spoke about delegations and journalists and other interested in lobbying in a particular matter. It is more about personal interests than about principled matters, because advocates of status quo have very specific objectives. They don't care about this kind of polarisation, or the noble words about how democracy will be preserved and whether or not this law is the mother of all the laws in media freedoms. The second thing, it is quite white that there is something I cannot call different than a black list of journalists on Croatian radio television. In this period until the institutions are operational many of the functioning institutions are, above all, the administration and irresponsible editors removed from their positions, so the journalists we considered the symbols of media democracy are no longer entitled to already have a ban on appearances on Croatian television. The list of their names is quite long. But that one Dennis Latin can't get on TV anymore, that shows are being removed because they were, let's say, politically unorthodox because they were opening some awkward issues. Well, that's true. It won't be repaired by this law itself, it won't, but it's quite clear that it's the result of an unsettled situation on HRT. In addition, we will not be able to ignore the fact that criminal aspects of cases have begun to appear or reveal themselves. The fact that there is such strong and large external production, the fact that so many people on HRT have so little productivity in the program is alarming, but it is even more worrying about what is going on with large assets and big business. Not always transparent and not entirely honest. Two more things at the end. There was a speech in the earlier debate on the technical equipment of television and its comparison with the actual technical equipment of private televisions. And it turned out, and it's true, that there's a big, enormous delay, that the funds were spent but the technological revolution on HRT failed. And that's something that in itself would already call for an alarm and talk about the need to be dissatisfied with the current order of things. I won't comment on the program. Too many people are watching it, so I think that's why there's one widespread dissatisfaction on HRT. But I will conclude with this first part. Some simply like cloudy water and then advocate the status quo because some get along well. Those who want to change and those who want to speed up change and those who want media freedoms and the opening of HRT with more professional and better work cannot be satisfied with what is the status quo, and it cannot be changed nor can it change without me say a lot of significant procedures in the structure of the decision-making and management of HRT. This law is not about other things. He's about how to run the HRT, and I might have something different from my predecessors. First of all, I'd like to welcome that change you've introduced to the initial members of the law concerning the commitment to the lecture of legitimacy and stronger programme share for those of public health, Homeland War or Minority. But what is the main content of the law concerns the relationship between the three main bodies. One is the Director, the other is the Supervisory Board and the third is the Board, i.e. the Programme Council. As far as the Supervisory Board is concerned, his role is quite large. It corresponds to the role played by the Supervisory Board in companies as well as public and municipal enterprises. Therefore, the principal does not have the kind of freedom that is attributed to him here. But when I say Director, there's something I want to point out. In this situation, we must have a director equipped and provided with means of introducing order because actually sharing powers and clouding the powers of individual bodies would mean a director of consciousness to a second-rate figure that someone from the shadow, with a lot of experience or resources, can manage. That's why I think there's nothing wrong with the director having a strong and prominent position, that he has the authority to manage RadioTelevision. After all, there was a rumor that it was unknown. So wait until the previous law so we always had an individual as a director, not a management. I remember Mr. Galic as headmaster and everyone praised him. I'd like to commend him today. Well, he was an individual, not a three-member administration. As far as the council is concerned, there is his role, Mr Vuksic said it, says too small, it is reduced to ficus. I am not quite sure, see article 15 – The Programme Council has strong powers. It'll have to apply them. It will not decide on day-to-day jobs, but the fact that one body checks, monitors, that the instructions are certainly not to withdraw the authority's authority, although only for day-to-day business will not be decided by one such collective and corrective body. The Supervisory Board monitors, he doesn't lead, and that's that significant difference. However, there is one more important thing about all these three bodies, and it is highlighted in the problem highlighted here as a problem of consensus from the election of members and the composition of those bodies. I think perhaps before that just emphasize the fact that indeed the Director-General is an individual, and to him all these principles will apply. The first principle is the transparency of choice. When I read that law, I get that impression. Well, look, there are exactly a lot of criteria that every candidate has to meet. I hope there's enough of them. And besides, no one's gonna answer unless he's authorized. The second thing, the procedure that's here is meant to be more transparent than ever. This is where it is predicted that this person will have to publicly present his programme, that before, and the Information Committee, etc. our Parliament is given a crucial role in this process and the body will be responsible for ensuring the quality of the election and transparency of the procedure. As far as the rights of the board and all the members of the Parliament are concerned, to question and verify the views of the candidates is one big gain. As is said, by the way, I think a great gain in the council's authority is not to intervene before the show's broadcast. It's a ban on censorship that's pretty explicit here and you see, very practical way of giving. As for the advisory opinion that concerns actually the director and those editors, it would be quite difficult for such an opinion to be mandatory because it would only mean that Mr Vuksic here spoke of a conflict of interest, it will be chosen by the people to whom the person of a particular profile will fit. We'll continue those click fights and the groups that exist on HRT don't hide it at all. The advisory opinion, however, is a good correction and guidance to apply the principle that is denied here, which is the principle of consensus. It's true about other things. See Article 8(4) of the proposal of this law, which points to a procedure within this Assembly, consulting, harmonising the opinion between clubs. Well, that's... Consensuality, and that eventually will be decided by most and that's true, but that was the case before. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition, he would like to list some more things, comment, because time is running out. First, the predecessors pointed out that there was no debate, the debate was, so I'm Mr Vuksic, I'm going to quote him, he says, "This month's debate is going on." And that's right. The debate primarily served to clarify attitudes and to address the need for the speed of adoption of such a law. There's nothing quite new, there's nothing that's been discussed, so we've been discussing the draft of that legal text for hours. So, it was a debate. It also questioned the European consultation process. I actually commend the ministry that it has embarked on this very difficult process of debate and consultation with the European Commission. What, however, I do not think is controversial, is that the Croatian Parliament is making a decision, the European Commission is giving an opinion. And I mean, now you have those divided two letters. The letter unquestionably confirms consent, approval, if anyone so wishes, that the law should be passed. Not to stay the way it was. This is why the European Commission's policy in Croatia is really up to us, but in this case we are only tied to one thing, which is that we honestly and sincerely express our position, to seek their opinion, but to decide on what is our will. And let me sum it up in three things. First of all, this law is necessary if it is the force of relations that exist on Croatian broadcasting. Secondly, it is needed because the financial and other situation of Croatia's broadcasting deserves and calls for stronger leadership. And thirdly, any policy that will take this law as an instrument cannot be disqualified in advance as a non-democratic or against freedom of the media. Wait, see, there was an opportunity to show... To be honest with everyone, that kind of policy has never been so far. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11289	Thank you very much. We have a 2,4,6,8 correction of incorrect allegations on your hearing. The first one came to Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go, Comrade Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11290	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, you said your colleague, Craig, that the main thing is to arrange the relationship between the body and the HRT. If that were the main issue of this law, then relations would be arranged between bodies, not some choice of those bodies. So, you're actually going...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11291	You've reached out to your colleague Stier, correcting an incorrect allegation. No, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11292	So that's not the main question, but the main question is how you choose, and of course not to be participatory, but that the ruling majority can choose whoever they want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11293	Comrade Stier, this is not a correction to an incorrect quote. I'm sorry, but it's not. The next correction was reported by Sunny Glavak. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11294	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll correct the incorrect assumption. My colleague Kregar said the Supervisory Board has a role to play as in utility companies, this is really terrible what we've heard. I also appealed in the debate last time in my first reading not to view Croatian broadcasting as a business subject, but as a public media or public service. And it's incorrect what you say, because in companies, even utility, or HEP, or others there are administrations, and you here suspend management and at the same time there the Supervisory Board can control the directorship, you understand. You're totally chasing things. Besides, there's something I have to admit to you, you've been very honest today, unlike your colleagues, that no one will answer...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11295	Thank you. This is already a replica of my colleague Glavak, I'm sorry. We'll have to wait. Comrade Glavak, please finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11296	...for the position of principal director who won't have the authority and you've finally said out loud what we're always saying. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11297	We'll have to wait for the new Rules of Procedure, then you'll be able to replicate. Thank you. The next correction was reported by Jasen Mesic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11298	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, the esteemed Professor Kregar made an incorrect statement when he said that the Supervisory Board would now have the authority to control directors and directors. In fact, in the scope and part-time of the Committee's work, nothing is changed in relation to the applicable law. The only thing that changes is the way to choose. Therefore, the Supervisory Board will be as powerful as it could have been so far in accordance with the law. That's why I'm correcting that inaccuracies.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11299	Thank you. An Ana Lovrin's representative reported the next correction. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11300	Mr. Vice President. Therefore, Kregar said incorrectly that the issue of HRT governance cannot be resolved by implementing the applicable law, which was adopted by consensus in this House. It is true that this is quite possible, that members were elected in time, missing members of the bodies who were to appoint the director to the two-thirds majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11301	Excuse me, colleague Lovrin, this is a correction of opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11302	No, no, it's not a correction, it was a finding. This was a finding.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11303	No, this is an opinion. That's my colleague's opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11304	Mr. Vice President, it was explicitly said that it was impossible.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11305	Excuse me, you're done. I take your word. Let us not use the correction of an incorrect quote to correct an opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11306	It's not true, this is violence, but well, I'll get a warning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11307	The following came from MP Josip Djakic. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11308	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So in a series of incorrect allegations that the esteemed professor has said I will only make one correction, which is that, that he will be able to report to the principal's principal only those who will have the authority. It's absolutely incorrect, and it doesn't stand anywhere in the law, but I believe you're thinking about having confirmation of parenting similarity. That's probably what it was supposed to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11309	Thank you. Next amendment. Please, colleagues. The next amendment came from counterpart Branko Vuksic. Here's my colleague Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11310	Your Honor, you said I said there was a debate about this law for months.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11311	It's been a debate these months, that's what you said.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11312	Yeah, but not about the law. The law is even being debated about Croatian broadcasting. Not even the minister in her first performances, she spoke about the law in which the programme council of editors-in-chief chooses and where journalists have a binding opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11313	Thank you. Next to the correction, a colleague named Branko Bačić reported. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11314	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, actually, my colleagues have, in part, corrected Mr. Kregar's incorrect claim that to apply, a competition for a member of the Programme Council needs authority. I took it as a permission to apply. I guess it was a lapus in this case because that's not what the law says, but I'm afraid it wasn't really a lapus that was actually the spirit of this law that only those who would be allowed to do it, and we know from who.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11315	And the final correction to the incorrect quote of counterpart Dinko Buric. Here's your colleague Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11316	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Kregar, I am correcting your inaccuracies that the opinion of the commission has actually given consent to this bill. I'm not going to elaborate, but in my debate, I'm going to say exactly what the commission said.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11317	Thank you. Next up for debate on behalf of HNS club colleague Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11318	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. We have before us a final proposal to amend and supplement one important law. I point out that because it is the impression that it is being brought... there is an impression of what we have heard from several previous discussions and of taking attitudes through so-called. corrections of incorrect allegations. No, it's not the new law that's been passed, but it's getting out of the existing law what's best, it's leaving and it's improving the proposals on how to amend those provisions that, unfortunately, have made it possible for HRT to be dysfunctional, but it's much worse than that, and that's the intransparency of its functioning to reach incredible levels, so if we want the scope. It is good that the Ministry of Culture well and carefully studied everything said on 21st of June and after that and took advantage of the opportunity to deliver this proposal in time so that the amendments and additions of the law would be voted before the summer break so that all those working on HRT would work fairly and feel their own as creators and hardworking people in order to enable them and open up space for creativity but also for everything they wanted to do to make HRT truly public service. Under these circumstances, unfortunately, they are not allowed to do so. Kregar, a colleague, said that the lists of those who built not only their own integrity were journalistic, authoritative but unquestionably giving their work and pain to democratisation of societies that showed a higher level of social responsibility even from those who would expect them, so the list of those who should not reach the screen or the microphone is unfortunately ever longer. And that already proves that the situation on HRT is not good. It is good that amendments and additions to this final variant that are being promoted by some institutes are primarily to prevent the blockages of the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council, i.e. by allowing them to be established as soon as most members are elected, i.e. the prevention of situations in which one of the members would remain unselected for this reason or for that reason. It is also good that the appointment of editors-in-chief and editor-in-chief of the programme programme is actually put into the process of a public tender, which actually introduces a more transparent selection methodology and a higher level of selecting a higher level of responsibility. It is true, the debate on this document that we have in front of us formally takes place relatively short because the formal procedure from the moment the draft amendment of the Law on HRT was found in front of the Croatian Parliament so far was relatively brief. But it wasn't made of itself, it wasn't such a procedure or the content of what was being discussed. These are discussions that last not only months but longer. Today we heard some kind of regret, I would call it a rather hypocritical one way of communication when you sued a net here on this pay phone which is not waiting there is a round table of NGOs in which you would probably have to be told everything relevant about this law. I have also participated in many other representatives from this House in many gatherings organised by the Croatian Journalist Society and the Union, but also other particularly coalitions of NGOs, especially over the past year and I have not seen any representatives of the HDZ, nowhere have they shown a level of interest to engage in this debate to say what the party thinks about it but I have not seen the HDZ representatives until recently, until the creators of the HRT organised a public screening of the film "5 minutes to 12" which they called for the rescue of public service. Only then did HDZ representatives appear. Today speaking in this way, expressing regret that civil society has not been involved is actually hypocritical. You didn't listen to civil society even at the time when you had the opportunity to change things because let's not forget the elections the consolidation of relationships changed just over six months ago, and the problems at HRT exist very, very long. It is perfectly understandable to me when Mr Mesic speaks on behalf of his club as well as on behalf of him because he feels a permanent responsibility as a culture minister for the state of the HRT, a former culture minister, as a culture minister in time and when the law we are now changing has been passed and the biggest problems on HRT have occurred. Maybe it's a defensive attitude that instead of speaking critically about failures, it's actually now yelling about what it wants to change to get away from itself real responsibility for this existing situation. A letter from the European Commission delivered to the Ministry of Culture here is taken as an argument that the European Commission is against this law. So I would ask fellow MPs who perform in this way to first say publicly whether they are European Commission speakers or representatives in the Croatian Parliament, to clarify at the beginning. Secondly, the opinion with the recommendations came from the Enlargement Authority. It didn't come from the General Administration of the Information Society and the Media, it didn't come from the administration that is expert in this area and is not binding because there is no acquis. So be at least correct and tell us when you talk about not respecting what the European Commission has recommended, that there is no obligation for what the European Commission is recommending in this case to be incorporated into Croatian laws, because there really is no law. And I'll remind you what you did until seven months ago. Those of you who are today saying that the recommendations and the condicionals that came to us from the Enlargement Authority are top-of-the-line standards that we need to respect. Until one year ago, you lied openly to the same European Commission and cheated in a way that you forged the laws you had made in the Croatian Parliament because you translated what was translated in English into Croatian with a mistake, so in the last term, we had to pass some laws three times because the European Commission was returning them to your work because you did not respect what was written in the certificate in the law. And that certificate in this law neither exists nor must exist. Then you cheated on the European Commission, and this has nothing to do with it. And you can't teach us how and how to respect recommendations or orders. In that case, they were warrants because it was a commitment to move the European acquis into concrete formulations in our laws. It's not here. It's another thing. A grudge against the so-called The qualified and 2/3 majority you're offering us here as an argument is actually a coward's egg. You know very well that the Law on HRT did not have to be passed by so-called 2/3 of the majority. The fact that he reached consensus by the number of people who voted for him, so forgive me, it happens every Friday. Every Friday, at least half of the laws adopted in this High House receive almost all votes from MPs who are in the Assembly. But it is not prescribed anywhere that these laws must be passed to the 2/3 majority and it will not be because it defines the Croatian Constitution. And the other thing is, the election issue is the principal director. The time when it is decided in the Croatian Parliament must be respected by the Croatian Constitution which defines what the Croatian Parliament makes as usual, according to the qualified, and by the 2/3 majority. The fact that he chose the 2/3 majority so far but not in the Parliament, you kept your mouth shut. He chose elsewhere, and it was then possible to transfer or transpose some regulation in the jurisdiction and obligations of another body. In this case we do not have that obligation, and we would probably also be in a situation where someone was not interested in seeking the constitutionality of that law in order to probably bring it down. You're keeping all this quiet from very ground-floor political interests, to move the public's focus away from the real situation. The closer the date of the final debate on this law, and its adoption, the more nervous it has grown in some circles. These are different circles, different godmothers, different interests and interest groups, all advocates of the status quo. These are the ones who regularly called editors at HRT every night or every morning to tell them what to do, what they can't do, who can't be invited to the show, who can't be invited to the show. Do not make me talk about names and specific cases because in this case we would talk about HDZ and concrete officials and ministers of your governments. You probably from that cancer and with that feeling you've been doing you don't trust either government and I can understand your position because you expect to treat HRT and the following governments as well as yours. I say I can understand it, but I don't have to accept it. The situation must no longer be allowed for the head of the cabinet of the President or Prime Minister to directly appoint the editor in an information programme or editor of a particular show to condition who can sit in the studio or who can perform the programme. I hope that time stopped in December last year and that it will never happen again. Unfortunately, it was repeated after December, but not from the position of the government but from the position of the party that was impregnated in the HRT management system, and also from the HDZ's internal campaign, it was called, requested and demanded who could and who could not participate in certain shows. And that was there. So I understand from which cancer you criticize when you criticize, but be open to the end. The proposals that will improve the existing HRT Act will certainly provide a more transparent governance model, will raise the level of responsibility of all those who act in the HRT system, will put them in a position not only to choose alike and worse than themselves, as this will endanger themselves and the performance of their own obligations and tasks defined not only by law, but also by the law of the HRT and the contract between the HRT and the Government. And it will certainly enable the public to be more directly related to relevant issues such as meeting the public service obligations and to come finally into the situation that most citizens are not being what they are now, which is that they do not care what is happening on HRT because they no longer value it and because they are no longer taking it seriously as a relevant medium but rather the opposite, that they are very interested in how they spend more than a billion and 200 million of their money that are allocated to the functioning of HRT each year and that they are interested and attracted to the quality of the programme. We, Madam Ministers, as a club of representatives, have suggested that you raise the line and, in the event of election, the principal in a way that, at the age of five, as it is now formulated, five years of work experience in the management of business systems, we raise this to 10 years of experience in responsible business in the media or other business systems. And one last thing I'd like to say is, with your proposal for a final bill of amendments and additions to the HRT Act, you've caused a storm in part of the political scene. I congratulate you among other things because you once again allowed us to clear out all those found with jam, with fingers in a jam called Croatian Radio Television. I hope that those who have used Croatian broadcasting for their private and political, party interests that these times have passed, i.e. those lords of the situation on HRT days are numbered.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11319	It's time, fellow Beus. Thank you. Your debate caused a storm. We have four injuries to the Rules of Procedure and eight corrections to incorrect allegations. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, first reported counterpart Jasen Mesic. Here you go, buddy. What did the Rules of Procedure get hurt in?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11320	May I read it, Mr. Vice President? Okay. [[Invader Batinić: Yes, you must state which article of the Rules of Procedure is injured.]] I'll read it to you then. It is, in effect, an article 214 where he was violated that he did not hold to the topic under discussion, that he was in some way demeaning and insulting other MPs, and that he did, by his conduct, deviate from the general rules of conduct in the congregation. Now, I can indicate why it's... The HDZ that we cheated, cheated, deceived the European Commission when we passed the laws essential to the accession process. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] [[Intruder Batinić: Microphone turn on.]] In this regard, she took care of it, and it was very well managed by Mrs Pusic, who then controlled the national council in relation to negotiations with the European Commission and could not have missed it. It's completely insufficient. All right, but we have 20 more corrections of incorrect allegations, so it's not a problem. [[/Intruding Batinić: Time of fellow Mesic. Here's your time. I'm sorry.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11321	20, I didn't record your 20. Thank you. In this assembly, I will give an explanation as to what you announced the violation of Article 214. Rules of Procedure. I didn't give a warning to anyone, nor was I interrupting. There were even stronger, or stronger ones, to put it that way. However, I did not warn my colleague Beus, because there are facts about what he claims. However, this is something that I refer you to the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure to assess whether it was the Rules of Procedure by Goran Beus Richembergh, Article 214 of this statement. The next one came from Advocacy Djurdzica Sumrak for the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11322	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I'm very sorry that you just said this. Namely, I'd like to warn you now that Article 214. [[/Upadica Batinić: Which article of the Rules of Procedure?]] You said that fellow Beus, well he's famous for it, he's probably enjoying it now that we're all raising tiles. But it's known to him. Insulting and past assembly of this Croatian Parliament, the entire Croatian Parliament, the Croatian government, and here is its vice-president, Mrs Pusic, today's minister when he said the laws were forged, those laws for the European Union. The past government has completed its negotiations, received all the EU's congratulations. Shame on you! And Mr. Vice President, you have now said that there are words and evidence for him. So I'm asking you nicely to apologize here or to bring you evidence.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11323	It's about translation, it's about facts, it's about translation, and I hope there's gonna be an opportunity. The next reported a violation of the Rules of Procedure of Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11324	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. And I think you've hurt the Rules of Procedure and that article 214. Because you did not warn Councilman Beus Richembergh when he was belittling and insulting other MPs, which primarily told those who used to act in the executive government here from the parliamentary pay phone that we were forgers and that we submitted counterfeits to this Croatian Parliament, and remember that you now warned and commented at the session when it was said that the Minister was lying that I agree that it was not well said. It could have been said that it may be false, but you did not comment on this counterfeiting which is a crime, and then you could file a criminal complaint against those who falsified something to the Croatian Parliament, and you did not comment on it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11325	Such an interpretation, you know when it was said by name and last name then I warned and now I have answered my colleague Đurđici Sumrak and colleagues Jasen Mesic. As regards the infringement of the article and my part, Article 214. The Rules of Procedure by your colleague Beus to refer to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system to give interpretation. Thank you. We have corrections to an incorrect quote. First call from a colleague, Dinko Buric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11326	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, first of all, I am correcting the incorrect allegations of an esteemed colleague who said that this bill tried to get the best out of the previous law. And I'll read you just one sentence from this opinion of the European Commission that says, "It should be noted that more appropriate are the provisions of the currently applicable law, which give this jurisdiction to the HRT Council, and the HRT Administration only proposes candidates." So it's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11327	It's done. You read me a letter.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11328	That's not true. This is not an accurate allegation and as to your incorrect claim that the European Commission has deceived the European Commission. I can only say that he's partially incorrect. The European Commission was not deceived by the HDZ. HDZ has deceived its own people.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11329	You're correcting my colleague Buric's opinion. Thank you. We have a correction to the incorrect quote of counterpart Jasen Mesic. Here's my colleague Mesic. Maybe just a note here won't take time. You have the right to a single correction of an incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11330	No matter how many I have 15 written down.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11331	You've got 15 of them right. You've kept lifting, but you've got to limit yourself to the point. You have one minute. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11332	Okay. Then I am correcting the incorrect assumption that I was a responsible minister when this law was passed. No, it was a colleague, Mr. Bozo Bishop. But I just have to say that I don't have to have reason to defend myself because I've been implementing very consciously applicable laws, and someone else should have a defensive position because he doesn't currently enforce the applicable laws, and my colleague Beus knows it very well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11333	Thank you. The next correction to the incorrect quote of colleague Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go, Comrade Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11334	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is incorrect that we have said that we must implement what the Commission says. We said that if you already called and said what the Commission said you had to quote it correctly, not tell the truth. It's not true that the only thing that needs to be reported to the press is the head office that's in charge of this. It is common practice for colleagues to communicate with countries such as the Republic of Croatia, see little and you will see that it is common practice. And of course the Directorate-General for Enlargement then contacts other parts of the European Commission. It is incorrect that a two-thirds majority is required to vote this law. No one is asking for it, but the two-thirds majority is mentioned for the selection of the Director General. And, of course, it's incorrect that we cheated on Brussels. If someone has deceived you, you can look at it and talk to Minister Pusic, so it's probably part of your internal issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11335	Thank you, fellow Stier, for your time. The next correction by Djurdzica Sumrak. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11336	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm gonna give up because I don't really want to feed our egotrips or Mr. Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11337	Thank you. Next up, a colleague named Branko Bacic came forward. Here you go, correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11338	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I wasn't using the A.R.I., I was using the Institute of Injury. I was using the Institute of Inaccuracy. Namely, it is not true, colleague Richembergh, that the former government falsified documents and thus deceived the European Commission. And, Mr. Vice President, it's not just an incorrect allegation, it's an insult to all members of the negotiating team, it's an insult to members of the former government, it's an insult, and for
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11339	I figured out my colleague Bačić, and I reacted. I'm referring you to the board. Correct an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11340	It is true, Vice-President, that the former government has completed the most difficult negotiations that the same EU member has had on the way to EU membership.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11341	Thank you. Next agent, Zeljko Reiner. Comrade Reiner, be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11342	But it still takes me a while, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11343	No, no. You're not correcting the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11344	Well, I corrected it, so it's an incorrect assumption that, I said Mr. Vice President, it's an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11345	You're doing a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You've hurt your colleague, Bačić. You corrected an incorrect quote and started talking about something else. I've directed you to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, to
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11346	Mr. Vice President, I'm correcting an incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11347	You were talking about correcting an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11348	Absolutely.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11349	Please let us finish, be collegiate. I gave Vice President Reiner my word. Here's my colleague Reiner's correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11350	Mr. Vice President, you have not allowed me to make the wrong allegations to the end. I don't understand what I'm in violation of the Rules of Procedure for correcting an incorrect allegation? If you can explain that to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11351	I have nothing to explain to you. I said what it was about.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11352	And then you should have let me finish it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11353	You've spoken, you've corrected an incorrect assumption. You started talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure. We're done! I'm referring you to my colleague, Bačić, to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Reiner, go ahead. ... No, no. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] First I gave my word to Vice President Reiner. Here you go, pal Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11354	Mr Vice-President, allow me to correct the incorrect allegations regarding whether or not we must respect what the European Commission says. Of course we don't have to. They're not asking us to, we shouldn't have joined the EU. No one forced us to do that either. So that's the quote I'm correcting as guilty. And also, I want to very clearly correct the quote because that mythic document I see is constantly mentioned, and no one will say it, clearly in that, so the European Commission, that they are predicating that instead of qualified majority, you will forgive me for not confirming my translation but reading it from English, the draft law introduces an absolute majority in Parliament, and therefore the political party holding the majority in Parliament can influence it whenever it wants. The two-thirds majority would be a much stronger guarantee to avoid political influence in this process. That's what it says in there.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11355	Thank you. Comrade Shuker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11356	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament on behalf of the HDZ Club, I ask you to allow us to discuss. You are not here to discuss with MPs but to conduct a session and have the same criteria for all or we will be used by the Rules of Procedure and then you will see what it will look like. But I'm asking you nicely to behave... My colleagues and colleagues, everyone in this House has the same right to speak, and your tyranny is enough and your interpretation of the law is enough. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11357	A fellow Shuker... My colleagues and colleagues, please, peace! [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Let's be correct, let's be tolerant. You're the one who hurt the Rules of Procedure. And I give you a reminder according to article 214. You have offended and threatened the president, and I have never taken away any of your colleagues' words or anyone else's. And just for the sake of maybe delicacy and my subjective judgments, I'm referring you to the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure. So you're using a business opportunity. Here's my colleague Shuker, the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11358	Mr. Chairman, you gave me a warning without telling me what I broke the Rules of Procedure with. I answered on behalf of the HDZ Club and I asked you only as chairman to give HDZ representatives a proper debate. Don't interrupt them, let them speak. And what did you do to me? According to the old party system boom warning. Why would you even threaten me with a prison?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11359	According to Article 214 of this statement, fellow Shucker says: "The representative is told a warning if paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 demeans or insults the chairman", and you have also made a dose of the threat. And now, in your re-emergence, you threaten and disrespect again. ... Comrade Reiner, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let me finish, then you'll write it down. Do not make us use the Rules of Procedure in a way that is not appropriate. And again, I have not taken away your counsel's word. But what I am and what I will always do and what it is the presidency's duty to stick together with the Rules of Procedure. And I say again if you estimate that I have injured the Rules of Procedure you have the opportunity to refer to the Rules of Procedure to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system in writing. I'm asking you to do it. My fellow Vice President Reiner, here's a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11360	Dear Mr Vice President, I also believe that Article 214 has been injured, and he is injured because you have now responded, of course it is your right to interpret any representative's statement in one way or another, but at the same time you do not have the same criteria for representatives from your coalition because when the HDZ representatives were insulted, you did not want to react at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11361	I think I've reacted and I have no intention, there's a record where you can read and see the reaction that was on the exhibit, or Goran Beus... Allow me, allow me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And I'm on it. I have no intention of having this debate about it right now. We have a correction to the incorrect quote, colleague Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11362	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I hope I don't get a warning. You didn't listen to civil society when you had power, that's what you said to your colleague Richembergh. No, just the other way around. In the adoption of this law, a proposal for a applicable law was adopted for a year. A year of major public debate in associations, professional, civil society associations was held. And secondly, you said that we deceived the European Commission, however incorrectly, the draft text was read in the European Commission's professional services, it was positively obvious. My colleagues have already said, then we deceived your vice president, and she has just spent reading and giving the green light for this law. So, everything you've been saying, a whole series of these incorrect allegations you've said, you've caused exactly because, that's why you've caused this reaction to our colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11363	Thank you. And the final correction of the incorrect quote, colleague Josip Djakic. Here's my colleague, Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11364	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I will correct my colleague Beus' incorrect claim. When he claimed that we had falsified the documents we had sent to the European Union. Namely, it is absolutely incorrect and you have denied it yourself in your presentation on the adoption of the Law on Croatian Television. So you said, "It's great that the Ministry of Culture is, in that sense, a key link, of course, in a broader sense, it's the Government, but in a narrow sense, you know who did his job, you know who was on the line with the European Commission, so in a narrow sense, the Ministry of Culture showed a high level of maturity, flexibility and honesty.", those are your words [[/Intruder: That's right. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11365	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the HDSSB representative club, shared debate, colleague Ivan Drmic. Here's your colleague Drmic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11366	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, Madam Minister. It's a little awkward to talk about this subject again today, if it was ten days ago, I feel like we discussed these same amendments to the law yesterday. It is clear to me that the ruling coalition's goal, even the night the election results were read, knowing the policy so far on both the left and right options in this country, was clear to me that very quickly there would be changes to this law or that the new law would be passed under the cover of changes, and that Croatian broadcasting would very quickly try and probably succeed, apparently, under its own political paw. And these events today and that about ten days ago when it was the first reading, they showed that I was right. It was all clear to me, but I also don't know what the rush was. Why such a haste that there are only a dozen, even fewer working days between the first and second readings. You're in such a hurry with this second reading, if you'd been a little too quick, it would have happened to us if the second reading had arrived before the first reading, although it seems impossible. We expected a public debate in the country in these ten days, and you said, when the last conclusion was made, that you expect a quality public debate to be held during this period. I have to tell you that at the time I didn't think that the public debate was about that debate you had at the meeting of the president of the Kukuriku Coalition. And even, I can assure you that in that letter from the European Commission, which requires a minimum of two-thirds of the vote that it is not meant to vote at the meeting of President Kukuriku coalition. It is probably thought that I at least understood the final vote in the Croatian Parliament. Here you were so fast that the Croatian Helsinki Committee, today I just received a call to the club, which was working one with good intentions, I am convinced, round table, about the Law on Croatian Television. They've been able to summon him, they've barely arrived to invite guests, and he won't be able to hold him until he's heard these amendments to the law. I find it particularly interesting in today's debate this bickering of HDZ and SDP, who has a better opinion, who has received the European Commission's better opinion, who is a better believer of the European Union, who is a non-believer of the European Union, who dares to violate one, one of the ten commands of the European Union. It is interesting when one party calls on another party to fire the European Union, when the Council calls on another party to punish the European Union. We heard in the debate that HDZ disappointed its voters, we saw it in the previous elections, but managed to end the mandate that it did not disappoint the European Union. From the way you work on this law, which has become a practice, I see you will be twice as strong as HDZ, you will also disappoint the European Union, you will disappoint your voters. I have to disappoint you, I'm sure you'll put that paw on, that you will choose your editors, journalists, porters, maids, maids, everything that comes on Croatian TV will not help you win your mandate again, because Croatian voters are not silly. If he lives badly, doesn't get paid, he gets fired, he has no money for a child's college, he certainly won't look at the evening news or a diary on HRT, news on the radio Zagreb and hear there from some SDP speaker that he lives well in this country, so he'll decide to vote for you anyway, it won't be like that. It also proves to you that HDZ had one top PR service on Croatian television, had its own TV director, director-in-chief, management president, I don't know every party calling differently, but it all comes down to the same thing. And it didn't do them any good, because if today, Jadranka Kosor was still prime minister, she would continue to implement HDZ policy in the Croatian government. And it begins from the first bottom of this government's mandate, and to this day it's clear that this government isn't having a good future, the elections will arrive very soon. I assure you that Croatian television will be like a small helex of 0.5 milligrams, after the diary you will sleep better, but in the morning when you wake up and when you get out on the street you will still have a reality waiting for you and it will obviously not be good at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11367	On behalf of the same club, the debate continues, fellow Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11368	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Before I say anything about this bill, here's the public doing this, we've now got to the clubs, right, representatives of the Croatian Parliament? We received this famous letter from the European Commission. Shame on you, you gave us a memo in English, it is not a question of whether anyone knows or not, in the Croatian Parliament is spoken and written in Croatian. The representatives of the Croatian Parliament also have the right to receive all documents in Croatian. So do they have to be won? So should it be reminded and reminded again of the words of Ivan Kukuljević Sakcinski, I think it is still 1843, so what do you want to send to the Croatian people not only the representatives of the message here? Even in the European Parliament, every country represented by an EU member has and receives documents translated into the language of the country of origin. So much for that. However, since you have already delivered this to us in English, let me spend my few minutes and then read this famous document in Croatian. Here is how "Your Excellency, we thank you for the last version of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on HRT adopted on 22nd of June 2012, and we especially thank Minister Violić for explaining the latest changes. Let me show satisfaction with the quick reaction to this issue in the section of concern that we have expressed. In particular, we consider it welcome to delete the provision relating to the resolution of the Director-General of the HRT in the event of non-acceptation of the annual work report. We also express our satisfaction that they are limited in the power of the Director-General and that new requirements have been added to meet the person who will be appointed as the Director-General." But now there goes what you don't like and what you want to hide. "However, we noticed that our previous observation regarding the need for a decision on the appointment of a body in HRT is made by a qualified majority not fully taken into account. Let me stress that although there is no ideal model for preventing political influence on public media, it is still important that the main authorities and members of the main bodies are chosen in a fair way with participatory participation of all participants. The other comments set out in the Annex to this letter relate to the competence of the Director-General of HRT as well as to the requirements to be met by the person selected in that position. Let me repeat my comment on the results of the public debate on the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on HRT and the need for the results of the public debate to be taken into account by the authorities and to ensure the widest possible public support for the new law. As I said earlier, the Commission will continue to closely monitor the independence of the public media and I once again express my hope that our comments will be a useful contribution to the process of adopting this act we remain at your disposal for further consultations on this matter. Respectfully, Alexandra Cass Granje. Deliver his Excellency to Ambassador Vladimir Drobnjak." And here are four comments from a literal translation. "Modifications in the process of appointing the body in HRT. The appointment procedure should be transparent, fair and involved in the participation of all interested stakeholders. We note that instead of qualified majority of the current law requires a two-thirds majority, the new draft law introduces an absolute majority in the Assembly of more than 50% of all MPs. Therefore, a political party that has a majority in the Assembly can potentially name whoever it wants. The two-thirds majority would ensure a stronger guarantee to avoid political influence in the process of appointing and if there is no ideal model for preventing political interference in public media it is important that the leading people, positions and members of the main bodies in HRT be chosen in a fair manner and with participatory participation of all major stakeholders. The competence of the Director-General of HRT, the remark, the revised draft Article 9 contains a provision on the new competence of the Director-General in the appointment and resolution of the editor-in-chief, and I quote "in accordance with the previous public tender", and now further opinion. And after the opinion of journalists and employees is obtained, however, it is only an advisory opinion and is not binding on the Director-General. However, there are no guidelines for the implementation of such a public tender, who will participate in the process and the choir and who will make the final decision. It should be noted that the provisions of the current law mentioned in the jurisdiction are made more appropriate, and the HRT Administration only proposes candidates. Conditions to be met by the Director-General relating to the conditions to be met by a person appointed to the Director-General of Article 8 which is complemented by Article 20, we consider it welcome to introduce additional criteria for the Director-General's post. However, we would consider it good to keep a 10-year working experience instead of 5 years which suggests a new draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements." So much for it being an HNS proposal. No, it is the recommendations of the European Commission. Other notes. I conclude, "it is unclear why the sentence of the Croatian Supervisory Board can be established after most of its members are appointed to appear twice in the full text in Article 11 which amends Article 22 and Article 14 which amends Article 25.". Now this is a translation more or less, let's go plus minus how precise it is, but that's a translation. This is in Croatian and so you should have delivered us so that we could discuss in Croatian. Unless you think we should speak here now in languages that will dictate to us the European Commission. That's not how it's gonna work. You know what, my colleague Drmic said it very well. You're in such a hurry to really turn out here that the second reading could have been before the first reading, but the key question colleague Kregar said here we're not discussing the law. What are we supposed to discuss here? Well, this is a debate about that bill. The key issue is the choice of the Director-General, the key question is the powers given by such a bill to the elected principal to elect and determine the editor-in-chiefs with non-binding opinions given to him by journalists or other representatives. These are the key questions we're talking about but you don't want to hear it. The key problem the ruling coalition wants to achieve with this bill is to establish control over the media. It's a key problem. And why establish control over the media? To control citizens' thinking is it known that you can have already talked about the difference between totalitarian and called democratic systems. Where there is no use of force, there is no need to control the mind. And in democratic systems where there is no formal use of force, thought should be controlled. And citizens need to be distracted by indoctrination, so they need to be assured that what is happening to them is not bad for them. That the worse they live, the poorer they are, the more taxed they are, the more they need to be convinced by the media that it is in their best interests to benefit them. And that's the whole point. And when it comes to the European Commission, we're not crazy about being dictated by anyone. We already said we should not allow us to replace orders from Belgrade sometimes from Vienna, so Budapest, so Belgrade now from Brussels. Don't keep Croatia following the curse of B, but it's also the fact that you're treating the European Commission two-facedly in line with the one outside. That is how you conduct yourselves when it comes to it, and you and these men will obey each other sooner or later when you receive a reluctance. Then maybe we'll discuss amendments and additions to the law again, etc. I probably wouldn't be surprised at that. The public debate that really had to be held, which you needed to have made such a hasty giving and other reading simply disabling it. It's like it's really a state of emergency, so we need to pass this law so urgently, and we couldn't wait not just for these two days, but maybe another month. Just remember, I know that a certain kind of state of emergency and government in today's ruling coalition. There are big eyes in fear, but remember never the force of any, whether it's her or the formal or this kind of rape of democracy has prevented the people from doing what they have...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11369	May I kindly ask you to bring an end.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11370	I'm done. And that's when they get the right to show what they think about the actions of the ruling in the regular elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11371	Thank you very much. We have three corrections to an incorrect quote. The first one came from a respected representative, Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11372	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have a correction to Mr. Drmic's incorrect allegations that we are calling for the fire of the European Union. We have not called for any fire, we are calling only for common sense and respect for these things that are stated to us in the opinions of the European Commission because we consider them good.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11373	The second allegation will be corrected by Đurjica Sumrak, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11374	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I also have a correction to an incorrect quote. Mr. Drmic, here you have said in your presentation to the Kukuriku government that it will disappoint both the people and the European Union. counterpart Drmic, they have already disappointed the Croatian people, and in these six months the European Union has already sent a negative opinion on some of their actions and derogation of democratic laws, so they are already doing so. Here's the correction, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11375	And Domagoj Hajdukovic thinks something incorrect has been said that should be corrected.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11376	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here I am correcting Mr. Drmic's quote when he said that there are sinners and believers as far as the European Union is concerned. As far as I know, joining the European Union was a consensual decision by this Parliament, so the Croatian people. Thus, there are no sinners and believers there, but that is the decision of all of us to do so and to pursue it. Therefore, we need to adopt some rules that make this entry into the common union, hence the European Union and imposes. Therefore, we cannot talk about sinners and believers, it is out of the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11377	This wasn't exactly a correction to an incorrect quote, so we're still going to have to learn how to correct an incorrect quote until we can end it completely. We're moving on to an individual debate now. First, the Honorable Representative Davor Stier signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11378	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Here, untruth and deception, on this I conjecture this bill and already on the occasion of the first reading while she was the Minister of Culture at the meeting of the Media Committee I asked her a very short question and I asked her whether in that first European Commission statement, since she was invited to do so, not because we need to accept everything that comes from Brussels, but already when she called on that opinion of the Commission, then let her be told that first opinion we never got here in the Parliament, we got this second one, but there's another one, we didn't see it. And then I asked her if it said that the current law is better than that proposed by the government of Zoran Milanovic and she says there is no such formulation. So I asked her to read it because it was visible that she had a document in front of her, to read exactly what it says. I'm talking about a minister who's bound to know about it because she's running the whole process. And then she said, read, and indeed here she might have been for the first time, and maybe she didn't see that it really said there that the current law was better than what the government of Zoran Milanovic proposed. I thought it was a warning enough not to go into lies and delusions again, that the minister would be careful, that when she speaks on behalf of the Government in the Croatian Parliament to tell the truth and the full truth. But here, during the second reading, again the meeting of the Media Committee and unfortunately again the deception. Because you see what it says in the conclusion of the committee that we have received: the European Commission, which was referred to by the Minister, has shown that the European Commission has taken a positive position on this bill, given that the remarks are respected, you should be careful to take note of the observations, it concludes. So the minister managed to deceive the representatives who were on the board. And it is well noted that the observed remarks which then applied to the powers of the Director-General are in the way of his choice of editor-in-chiefs, etc. But here, although our request in English was to get a Croatian translation, we haven't received it yet, but of course we understand what the commission sent us and read to us and a colleague earlier. Unfortunately, here's the Croatian television I don't know if it's moving any further, I don't think it's any more, maybe it's transmitting, but once again, let's repeat that it's also said here that, unfortunately, the commission notes that the comments on the need for a qualified majority are not respected. So, on the one hand, the Minister of the Croatian Parliament said they were respected, on the other hand, the Commission itself writes they are not respected. So untruth and deception, that's what this law is all about. And we can only imagine what the work of HRT would be if this law was passed. On deceptions and lies. It will be a party television that will try to hide the real reality that Croatian citizens cannot see it and can't hear it. In this whole debate, so in that first reading, a colleague from the SDP tried to say, so it doesn't say anywhere in the Commission's document that there must be a 2/3 majority, so they just appealed to some qualified majority, they didn't explain what qualified majority they meant when choosing the head of HRT. And we kept talking, they wrote, and they said don't tell lies. But here it was necessary to get to the second reading and to explicitly write it again, to make it clear that you did not respect it, and when we talked about the qualified majority, we thought we needed a two-thirds majority in the Parliament to elect a principal. Why? He says that the ruling majority in the Parliament could nominate whoever they wanted. So it's a guarantee there's no political control over HRT. Of course, it doesn't matter what the Commission said, we warned it. Unfortunately, however, colleagues from the SDP needed to have the Commission write it down to understand it once, and yet they did not admit it. And as for these remarks, Mr. Vice-President, here is the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Nenad Stazic, speaking in his own time when the current law in 2010 was being discussed, he was just then going to remind me again, and this was agreed by the representatives of the CNS, that when the majority elects the head of the HRT, it is then the electoral prey, and now what SDP and coalition partners suggest. That's exactly what I'm So, the SDP and the partners are trampling, literally gazing at what they used to say. But what is the worst gauze under the rights of Croatian citizens to public service to have the right to public television. The same document requires an extensive public debate. So maybe you went to the Ministry of Culture's website. It's still an old bill. They didn't even put this new one on the website today, so it's a public debate. Isn't that enough evidence to avoid any debate? Why? They do not want to face what the profession has to say, what civil society has to say, and what Croatian citizens think. There's one more thing that's worrying, and that's never been mentioned before. I'll be very careful about it, because I wouldn't want to interpret something wrong. However, in this Commission letter, I have some experience in this, so I really collegiately suggest it. Read carefully the part where the Commission says it will continue to monitor HRT's independence very carefully. We do not need enhanced monitoring if we want to complete the ratification process in time and enter the European Union on 1 July 2013. I hope no one thought of jeopardizing the ratification process. Shouldn't it be in anyone's interest for Croatia to wait for another country before joining the European Union. I really hope we're not going to accumulating such fouls, those kind of mistakes and there were them. The law on police, the law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. And here we see this sentence in the HRT Act. In the end, the minister apologized for perhaps not having had some opinion or recommendation from European delegations. I wish she had apologized to the Croatian Parliament and to the Croatian public for not telling the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11379	We have a replica of a few on your exposure. First call from a colleague, Dinko Buric. Here's your colleague Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11380	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague. First of all, regarding your finding that we didn't even get the first document. That's right. And it's a great shame to the ruling and we've had to manage, we've come to that first document. But when you say what it says in that first untrue document, that is, the lie the minister gave, here I will read to you on the second page the first paragraph. "The overall assessment of the HRT Law adopted by the inter-party consensus in 2010 is very good, but the problems have arisen in its implementation. The new draft law in terms of the guarantee of independence is somewhat weaker. In order to avoid a step backwards in this regard, the law needs to be properly implemented by the Croatian authorities." This was also written in that first document. That's what's left in the second document as if nothing happened. And regarding your findings on the need for a very careful interpretation of this sentence that the Commission will continue to closely monitor independence. I'll just correct you not by HRT, but by the independence of the public media. So, I'm not going to prejudge either, I'm not going to draw premature conclusions but this many gaffs in such a short time when Croatia's relationship with the European Union is really going to think for a reason whether maybe it's not really a desire for us to stop and get rid of someone else. Serbia knows what this is about. So much love, friendship and our country president with the president of Serbia the last one. Well, I believe they will, and they will, and with this new one, it won't be a problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11381	Thank you, fellow Buric, for your time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11382	To think about it. That's not what I've thought so far. Now I'm gonna keep a close eye on what's going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11383	Time, buddy. Thank you. We have a response to the replica of Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11384	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. We need to think about this if we have preserved some form of parliamentary control of the government and on European issues such as the National Committee, then we would have it institutionalised so that we could control what seems and probably there would be no such mistakes. Unfortunately, that's not there. We have to go to the plenary session. But what's important is that really when the government makes us a proposal, when we need to be informed about what she got from Brussels to tell the truth. Because we can have party differences, we can have the government of SDp and HNS, the party of the Liberal Democrats, but we can't have the rule of SDP and HNS of neoliberal autocrats.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11385	Thank you. The next replica of Djurdzica Sumrak's representative. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11386	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Stier, here it is, I listened very closely to you and you spoke of war prey, and you're good at it, not wartime but electoral prey, but that would be the same thing. That's exactly what my colleague Stazic was talking about when the new HRT Act was passed. On this point, he commended Mr. Bishop's ministry at the time and said finally wonderfully, here it is, we have a law that comes, we have public television for the common good. She can't belong to government or strangers. Governments change, the law stays. And then everything changed. They got power and they took their prey into their hands and they realized they really needed to change something because if HDZ had had HRT in eight years in this way that now they would have corn, believe me, a little things would have been done and done differently. So, they're totally, so I'd say primitive insinuations of calling some editors when here we're recently hearing that some PR ladies call the editors-in-chiefs, dictate news that will come out, which they won't come out and then they thought in the corn is so that's what we're going to legalize now. Why bother too much? We'll see, but they're running out of time, and they're really in a hurry because on Friday they need to vote a man who's already named and last name there, he's waiting for it now five to ten they've put years insignificant, a man probably has five years of work experience. And they shall appoint him, and we shall set an eight-day term, no more 30 days than eight days. So it's a rush. We can see that the SDP colleagues didn't report for a debate at all, a couple of them, because it's very awkward to take after a few years of phonograms and read what was said. And the truth only today from the opposition, or from the ruling party, forgive those who have the courage to speak positively about this today, will say that some generations later can see how they behaved and demoted and derivated all democratically passed laws, and perhaps precisely in order to say Mr Buric, but you should also consider who we are waiting for to join the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11387	Thank you. Time. We have a reply to the replica, Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11388	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's a colleague of the twilight you said, of course for some PR agents who call it unfortunately as far as I'm concerned, it looks like some of them were sitting in the direction and even putting it on facebook while they were on the show. So here's so much about who affects and how. But if this law is voted upon, be assured that no one from the Ban Court must call the Prisavius, they themselves will report to the Prime Minister and ask for permission whether they may or may not publish anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11389	Thank you. The next call came from counterpart Boris Blazekovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11390	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd just like to look back on that part of Mr. Stier's speech where he said that Minister Zlatar had deceived the board members. I've been to both board meetings, I haven't seen Mr. Stier on the second one, he was on the first one, and I haven't noticed that Mrs. Minister has deceived board members, so neither this Croatian Parliament nor the Croatian public. She said exactly that this document consists of two parts. One piece is praised, and one part is with certain reserves, and after Mr. Stier's discussion, it turns out that this is the most important document of the law itself that I could not agree with in any way. These are recommendations and this is not part of the acquis on which Croatia would be obliged, regardless of what needs to be shown a large dose of sensitivity against all of the instructions given by the European Commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11391	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Comrade Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11392	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's your colleague, and you can read what's in the record from that committee's session, and you'll see very clearly that the MPs have been deceived. Because it says very nicely that the commission, of course, found that it was found that the commission gave a positive view because the Commission's remarks were respected. And that's incorrect. So the minister was deceived because she led the MPs to think she respected the Commission's remarks. It's in the record of that session, and it's just not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11393	Thank you. Next call came Branko Bacic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11394	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Stier here I agree with your debate, and I would only add that this law is actually proof that the double measure of the ruling coalition is actually the only constant in its work. In fact, this law now wants to show us that the public tender for the leading posts and staffing in the Programme Council is the highlight of democracy when it is humanised on HRT as a public media. And until yesterday, from the same government, the same coalition said that the HDZ public tender was actually a fig leaf covering the shame of the way it appointed members of boards and boards in public enterprises through public tenders. So, on the one hand, when HDZ advocated a public tender, for the appointment of persons to the board of directors, then it was actually covering party staffing, and now that through this law it was trying to appoint members of the Supervisory Board, members of the Programme Council in HRT, it is now the highlight of democracy. So that double archin I say is the only constant in the work of the coalition. And I just want to say to you, Mr. Vice President, that you just took away my word, and that's why you cut my debate half a minute, and I haven't lost much with that, but it seems to me that the way you've treated the HDZ deputies a little while ago, that you're slowly losing the authority that I think you've really rightly acquired in the past six months, leading this House as vice president of the Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11395	Thank you. Next to the replica, a colleague, uh, excuse me, colleague Stier's reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11396	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's counterpart Bacic, so they didn't want to have that public tender. And in the first proposal they didn't have it, but there were these criticisms from the commission, so they tried to put in some kind of public tender so they could say we respected those remarks. But they will not deceive the Croatian public as simple as that, nor the Croatian representatives, nor the European Commission, obviously. Because it's nice to say in this second letter of the commission that this public tender actually serves nothing because it says clearly you haven't provided any guidance on how a public tender will be conducted, who will participate in the election process and who will ultimately make the final decision. So, the party TV remains, and the CEO will be able to name whoever he wants.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11397	The next replica was presented by representative Ana Lovrni. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11398	Thank you very much. Well, fellow Stier, it's clear from all these discussions that the only double measure is, double standards have been constant these six months. I'd like to add something to this election prey. So here by ruling for almost six months under the responsibility of changing a series of laws, they're actually sharing chairs like that prey. From this point on behalf of the SDP club and there was such a jaundical thesis that under the existing law on HRT could not be resolved by the management of HRT, which is completely incorrect. It could not be resolved because the Croatian government and the minister in the government made it clear for months that they would not apply the current Croatian law. And she didn't apply it, because she couldn't do it either, because there's a majority of the ruling. So it could have been, but it didn't want to. Why? To purposely create a governing crisis, that would be an excuse for amending the law. That the election of the director of the HRT should then be amended in the legal manner, so that he is chosen solely by the ruling ones. And Kregar's colleague, because he was very generously talking about the undiscovered journalists, about the black lists, about some terrible situation, and I'm asking the SDP and Kukuriku coalition, which guarantees that after such a self-rule elected director, there will be no black lists, and there will probably be no undiscovered journalists, but then these lists will also be on the scale of the ruling ones, and then the lists will not be problematic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11399	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Here you go, Comrade Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11400	Thank you. Here's my colleague Lovrin, they tell us from the SDP and the Kukuriku coalition, we have to trust them they'll pass the law, but then they'll implement it in a way that will only name capable, good people in a transparent way. We saw how the culture minister did it with the director of Klovic's court, with the director of the State Archives in Osijek. So, people, of course, were set up, those who had been removed were replaced because they were capable, they were not even party employees, but therefore brought in other people who had a party key, they had to be appointed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11401	Thank you. And the last replica. The representative of the Sun's Head. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11402	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm going back to what apparently caused the storm, which is the European Commission's monitoring. So, with what right I wonder, many objections from Croatian associations and experts are ignored. So, back to Croatia a little bit. So these remarks also came from Croatia, not only the European Commission, from the European Commission, of course, with a more polite diplomatic dictionary and perhaps a little nicer wrapped in cellophane, in Croatia very specifically. Direct political interference will be passed in this way by the Law on Croatian Radio Television. With incredible ease we ignore all the recommendations, all the recommendations of the local public, the interested public, because that public is paying for Croatia's broadcasting, no one else pays for it. And that public must be involved. And just what the Croatian Helsinki Committee wanted to do, therefore a public debate, what the Ministry of Culture missed, except in a virtual world which was also not updated as well as you well noticed, so neither is the comments nor the new draft, this second reading of the law. So it's suspended in this way. The European documents, which are very clearly in charge of members, therefore, of the Member States of the European Union to regulate their legislative frameworks of editorial independence and financial stability of the public media service, such as the Croatian Broadcasting Service, to list the number of resolutions they speak about. So we completely ignore that, too. There's been a lot of talk about party television, Kukuriku TV, so you can think about it whatever you want. And I think it would be fair if you cut us some slack and tell us the last name and last name, so who's going to be the next winner and who's going to be the head director of HRT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11403	Thank you. We're moving on to a new debate, and excuse me, colleague Stier, here's another apology.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11404	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Members, I agree with you, it is really not what the commission said and what the Government of Zoran Milanovic did not want to hear, but what it does not want to hear and what the Croatian profession has to say, and civil society in Croatia. Unfortunately, here's the thing. a paradigm where we must establish, and that is unfortunate, that sometimes it seems that the commission better defends Croatia's national interests than its own government and not just political control over HRT. Well, you see, the commission is such as to stop a man who would be in conflict with the INE Supervisory Committee from going there, so that's the commission stopping, it's in our national interest that I don't have a man who's in conflict of interest. So it turns out, unfortunately, that he cares more about Croatian national interests in a commission in Brussels than he is here in the Ban Courts.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11405	Thank you. The next debate was registered by MP Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11406	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear Madam Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. Today and those who were great advocates of all that, and I would say servants of the obedient, every dictionary that came from the European Union, even uncritical, and also those who were strong opponents of all this. Both today are waving paper signed by Mrs. Alexander Cas Granje, head of the Spanish Enlargement Administration. Otherwise, a lady who comes from a country where the head of national public public television is appointed by the Government. It is appointed by the government during its term of office at the term of office of 4 years, as long as the government's term of office. This was the case until recently, and certainly long after and after Spain became a country of the European Union. So many gentlemen about the author, that is, what we need to be familiar with, so also with the practice that applies in certain countries. Only after that, only recently with strong reform procedures by the Director-General, their state-owned television network is appointed by the ordinary majority in Parliament. You all know it, and this has not been known to you, and I will give you the sources published publicly in the 2010 Journal by author Isabel Fernandez Alonso, a good acquaintance of the entire history of public television first by the dictatorship of France and then until today in Spain itself. We all know that there is no acquis in this matter, so there is no one-hearted solution and that countries in the EU have different solutions and that is well known to you all. In Belgium, for example, in some of their regions, the head also appoints public televisions, so these provinces are appointed by the government. Let's just say, you're also familiar with who appoints the CEO... the BBC's chief management body, which is then appointed only by the Director General. He calls him the Queen. We don't have a queen, though. Therefore, we have had an intensities in history that we have. There are therefore various solutions. And I'd say we spent all of our energy here on who's to appoint. I think that was perfectly clear and I think and transparently put, and today this is the biggest suspicion that causes when something is said openly and when solutions are put in place that do not cloud water, which are clear what kind of man who brings a person to a clearing with great powers but even greater responsibilities. That's the way we set ourselves up. I would say that this whole legal project was set up in principle when I was engaged to something I'm responsible for, unlike those rules that were worth until now when I'm engaged to everything, I'm not responsible for anything. Now these consequences we have here today, people themselves, professionals, people who have won the minds and hearts of Croatian viewers, they are just saying that the situation on HRT needs to be fixed. And it is never a product of such or such wonder, but always a system or system that is legally regulated. And it's obvious there's something to change. I'm not saying that the one that was even legally not made with some good intentions and should not run away from being brought with support but it has proved precisely that such a hiding behind collective bodies is a product of still socialism, which extends the body, so when they're all responsible no one is responsible. I think we need a general law that is about to speak because somewhere or in many things, we need bodies except for individuals who will be appointed and then there will be no responsibility for individuals and there will be no hiding behind individual bodies. So it's perfectly clear what the conditions are for setting but also for solving. Even better, if you see in this article what are the conditions for the resolution of a single member or programme council or the CEO himself, then you will see that those who are taxed are not some rubber norms from which politics can be hidden. It can do politics. Don't you young Mr. Mesic who weighs yourself with your hunger, I know it's inconclusive to you, and I don't assure you. I speak to the Croatian public here. Because you can't get out of yours. What is it? Well, since you're looking for what she's about, I didn't mean to say. But when you ask us to tell you what happened and then I'll tell you. In the 1990s, gentlemen, you destroyed all industry, and you turned HRT into your only heavy industry. But in spite of that, you lost the election, then you lost the election. And yet you did not abandon HRT as soon as you took power, so we remember the invitation and then the prime minister to release the taxes to HRT that went through the finance minister. So you remember when you were from the free, when the government decided from their free space the Ministry of Justice moved to the HRT premises in Dezhmanov and paid millions. From free space enter rented rooms and pay rent for those squares. Gentlemen, that's crazy squared. But that madness has obviously not been paid. And you've been smitten with nothing. It's been a while, we've lost a little of the election and nothing to anyone. It can't be anything to anyone. Yeah. Furthermore, what with certain individuals about it was also said on behalf of the SDP club Mr. Josip Kregar. He mentioned Mr. Latin, I'm going to mention the journalistic women of Maya North, Elizabeth Gojan, so these are the consequences of this work. And on the financial aspect, it would only be possible to talk for hours, if not more. Therefore, this one model that establishes a person who establishes transparent ways of naming but also solves them. And let's be honest that every right and no matter how corrupt it is and how tax-listed it is I'm going to repeat it, it doesn't allow one big width of application is also a big responsibility. But we're not afraid of responsibility. Today, it was said here that I don't know who was talking when he spoke on behalf of Cuba, mentioning even responsibility, and justifying himself to such legal solutions by calling for responsibility to be called demagogy. That's a word that's not popular to mention at all. These are some things, therefore, a question of responsibility, solidarity, community, these are the undiscovered words that cause doubt, but these are the words to which we will give content and faith. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11407	Thank you, too. There was an announcement of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Vice President Reiner, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11408	Mr. Vice President. Article 214 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure, because in the verbal stream in which we heard everything from enlightened absoluteism to heavy industry, actually offended MP Mesic. I expect you to proceed as you've done before.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11409	As for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I expected you to announce something else, however, I did not feel that Mr Mesic's personality was injured. And I also suggest if you consider my interpretation that there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure to give the committee of directors a written lead. We have four corrections to an incorrect quote. The first one came from a colleague named Vladimir Seks. Here you go, Comrade Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11410	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, I assume, did one lapus, if it's not about the lapus, then it's about the wrong quote. Your claim that in the 1990s, Croatia was turning towards HDZ, according to the opposition that we destroyed industry, turned that only industry was television, heavy industry and lost elections. You probably forgot a little bit, so let me remind you. '90s. The election was won by HDZ. '92. The HDZ also won the election, and you, if I remember correctly, have just crossed the 5% threshold. '95. The HDZ won the election as well. So that claim of yours, I assume, is a small fruit of oblivion and a little deconcentration.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11411	Thank you. Time's up. The next correction to the incorrect quote, counterpart Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11412	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In a series of inaccuracy I'll also correct that it's incorrect that we're the '90s. years put Croatian TV under control and lost elections, it is absolutely incorrect. It is true that in 2001 you placed television under control, it was state-owned, named in this Parliament of Galic. That's right. And in 2003, lost the election, and that's true. That's how you're gonna do it now.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11413	Thank you. Next up, a colleague named Davor Ivo Stier came forward. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11414	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here I will remind you that those who had party television was just a party and was Veljko Knezevic was the last, the main man of Radio Zagreb at the time, that I am not still talking about how the structure of TV management was and then you lost the election, so HDZ then won. And if you want to do it again now, you'll lose the party TV again in the election.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11415	Thank you. Next correction, MP Gjurdzica Sumrak. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11416	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed representative Ingrid, a representative in the Croatian Parliament and our honorary representative, the observer in the European Parliament incorrectly expressed and incorrectly cited that finding in the 1990s that HDZ had taken over Croatian television and made it a difficult industry and lost the election. I'd just like to say one thing, dear colleague. In the 1990s HDZ came to power democratically. Croatian television at the time, during the Homeland War, played an honorable role and I would not call it a heavy industry at all but would call it the eighth force in Croatia after the defenders of the Croatian people and all those patriots. So that at the time we do not need to humiliate Croatian television, we can start talking about 2001 and beyond.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11417	Thank you. We have reported four replicas. The first one came to Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11418	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's counterpart Anticevic, you mentioned the case of Spain, the case of Great Britain, but you didn't say because you couldn't even say that the government of Spain or the British government, or their ministers, had deceived their parliaments. That's what this is all about, that's what the minister came and gave completely incorrect, false information. Yeah, what you're saying can be true. There's no hard acquis. But here is the first letter from the European Commission that we have not received where the Commission reminds us there is no hard acquis of the European Union, but there is therefore a lot of the acquis of the Council of Europe, and Croatia is also a member of the Council of Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11419	Thank you. Next replica, representative Jasen Mesic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11420	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. There are a lot of things I could replicate to the esteemed Mrs. President Ingrid Anticevic, but I'll just say one thing to clear it up once and for all. So part of the law is part of the acquis, it's part of the law relating to state aid because the subscription is treated as State aid and that part treats aquis because otherwise it would be unfair competition with commercial television. So that part is certainly an integral part of the acquis. That's why the law was on negotiating in Chapter 8-The Market Competition, in chapter 10 that was related to the media, he was a political benchmark. Especially at the time, the election of the Programme Council was debated, and let's not move that again. Of course this part of the amendment is not an integral part of the acquis because if it were an integral part of the acquis then such an opinion would prevent the law from being passed further, it's quite clear, but this part is. Let's tell the difference once. I don't intend to further quote the things that are listed because I'm going to have a chance to argue, so thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11421	Thank you, too. And another replica, Representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11422	Dear colleagues, you said this was a system, your system that you bring in is the system of one man who, by you, is the best system. You've instructed someone to choose the principal in this way. The point is no one wants to hear the way editors are elected. This isn't a shoe factory, this isn't a power plant, this is a media house. So the way the editor-in-chiefs are elected here is being put up by the political commissioners, the editor-in-chiefs have become political comments. This is the worst thing that could have happened. Here the director manages the selection program, the way editors are elected, and this is just a trick contest. And who, who's competing, decides who's in charge of the competition, the principal. Who can complain about who doesn't get through the contest, the principal director. According to the head director's appointment, most are appointed by the head director. It means who rules television, the party.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11423	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, MP Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11424	For the question of someone's independence is not crucial even to whom they are appointed, the question is further, the most important question because they are always someone's appointment, somewhere more hidden, somewhere less, somewhere completely open, and then causing even the biggest suspicion, and it should be just the other way around. The question is how much later we have control mechanisms and how much of a person or such can work independently after the body. That's the key question.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11425	Thank you. We have another replica, Agent Dinko Buric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11426	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I must admit I'm surprised by your debate. When a colleague from the HNS said that it was the comments of some unprofessional people from the European Commission, so I thought, "Let's get him out of here sometime." But to you as our observer in the European Parliament, to say that and to belittle those who have written such memos, I must admit it surprises me. But here's something else I want to tell you. You know, there's this one notion of bandits talking about the width of the frequency band, or a simple dictionary about the amount of information that goes through one channel in a given unit of time. You know what they'll do, what will the central diary look like on HTV after this? They'll have very weak benith, they'll be late for the signal. You said something to a colleague in terms of not having to come from the Ban Court or from Ibler Square to call the editors but to answer for themselves. I think it will be a little bit different, that the first Diaries with that real signal will be seen on Iblero Square and in the Banski Dvori, and then the rest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia with weak benit, with a slightly delayed signal, will get that version that will be staged and cut there. That's what it'll look like if this is how this law is applied that you put here. And once again, I only stress that I am asking the ruling to make sure that never again in the Croatian Parliament we receive documents in any language other than Croatian. Never again. It is an underestimation of the Croatian Parliament and of the Croatian state and of all Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11427	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, MP Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11428	First of all, my dear colleague, I am merely a guideline to the practice of the lady who is a signator of this letter in her home country and nothing else. And I didn't insult the lady, neither did I praise her, nor offended her, but I spoke the truth, and I fear the truth neither in the land, nor in Europe, nor anywhere. It is my duty to speak always and everywhere. Because it's not just being brave to say something 10 meters or 10,000 miles. Therefore, each one of his own, the facts of cleanliness. That's one thing. And as for how much I know my colleague here today we are talking about Croatian broadcasting, about public service. We're not talking about Slavonic television.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11429	Thank you. Next for a ten-minute debate, MP Jasen Mesic. Here's my colleague Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11430	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's since I've had a chance to speak for the club, I'm not going to repeat those things that I kind of criticized. I find them very obvious, though. But I must say, I note how this debate moves away that there are esteemed representatives here in this House who are more in favour of the adoption of this law than the parent ministry. Some MPs approach it as their child, as if they were writing the law, as if they were proposing, as if they knew where instead of giving some suggestions and amendments and, behold, wonders whenever they give some amendments are always respected. Probably because they're good. I would also like to say that I am sorry that we did not have the opportunity to have five months of public debate as much as we had for the law that was passed in 2010. We had a chance to have a public discussion from the moment the first draft was announced by the Ministry of Culture. That's not good practice. I have no problem saying that with many decisions made by Minister Zlatar Violic, I agree. The decision on the multiannual funding of the cultural programme is an excellent decision. However, this bill is bad. And many who today advocate and say that this law is good were just as good as sitting in the last session and praising that law that we passed by political consensus. I don't have to express any too much sadness. I have never been a guest on the central information shows of Croatian Radio Television. I've never called any editors, I've never been a guest in the open that many of our parliamentary deputies did while they were in opposition. So I don't have any problems and I don't express my grief. In fact, I'm very pleased. I am pleased to read today the minutes of those 2010 sessions when our colleagues and colleagues praised the law. It's, I'm proud of it. I am proud of this understanding that then colleagues and colleagues from all political parties showed when they passed the law. I wish it was today. I am sorry today some MPs did not notice during the roundtable discussions regarding this law. I have to admit that I haven't noticed them in a while, and sometimes I have to admit that they took me in an official constituency car to save me a return to Upper Town. Before that, there was no need for me to appear in public debates in law-making because the public debate lasted for 5 months and if this were the opinion of the European Commission, then they would not have let it into the procedure in any way. That's why I don't feel sad. I'm feeling a little worried. We should all be worried. There'll be a monitoring report in 10 months. What we're going to do and who's going to be responsible if this question comes up there. Then what are we gonna do? I also want to say that it's normal for this to be written by the Enlargement Authority because it's about political criteria, just the criteria in which this law was a Benchmark in Chapter 10, and this is really a common procedure. I don't have any problems and I never thought to urinate on Croatian radio television...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11431	Excuse me, I'm asking someone to turn off the machine. I don't know whose phone it is, but it bothers me.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11432	I think he's my president.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11433	Then I ask you to put him on so he doesn't buzz so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11434	Here's my apology. I beg your pardon. But here I confess, and then there isn't. It never occurred to me to urinate for any co-production or oral or written, for any external production. But with this bill of law, you won't solve it. You can put salt on the tail with this bill, because the same powers the Supervisory Board has as much as it has in the current bill. There was talk about the criteria for selecting the Director-General. I can already imagine an esteemed colleague of the president of the Media Committee opening a discussion and examining the knowledge of media legislation and IT technology. That'll be a great interview. Why don't we on the board, Mr. President, immediately suggest we introduce a test, a certified test blinded under the code, and see who knows who and who will ask if anyone can ask him anything about the media legislation on which hand to the heart, and unfortunately, we don't have a strategy yet prepared, regardless of what the minister has announced. I've always said the same thing, and I think this law should come in a third or fourth row, if it really wants to be resolved. I've always said that according to the current law, if it's implemented, I can also make human resources changes on HRT, I know that the reduced debts on HRT, I know that the Programme Council has made a report on almost 900 and some pages, we've never received a comment on that report. I know that the law is being broken now because these bodies haven't been filled for months and I also know that some MPs are very interested in getting this law under the mousse fast, to be appointed interim director as soon as possible. I can be totally calm and I don't have any sadness about it, and some of you know it well. I'd love to, and I said that in the club discussion, the culture sector is kind of really specific. Whenever political attitude prevails, it's bad. And there were bad times both at some point in the HDZ ministers and ministers from the Kukuriku coalition whenever it prevailed. It is therefore very good to pass such laws as much as possible, as coordinated as possible and as political consensus as possible. That would be my wish as a representative in this House. I hope we can do this. I hope we don't have to work this hard with the deadlines to put the law on today as soon as possible so that we have that eight-day deadline so that we can appoint a temporary director on the board so that we can vote in peace in Parliament on 13th of July so we can go on vacation so that something doesn't jump us by accident and set time for the 90-day tender. Great. Well, haven't we heard that the condition is disastrous, that there is an urgent response? Then why are we extending the deadline? I have to admit, I don't quite get it. I thank all my colleagues and colleagues from all the parties who participated in the public debate, gave suggestions and discussed them both on committees and anywhere. I think that's good. I hope that at least this debate and the final draft of the law will be published on the Ministry's website where the May version is still available. So much for the value of a public debate. It's real, it shouldn't happen when you pass a law like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11435	Thank you, too. We have on your exhibit a correction to an incorrect quote, colleague Joseph Kregar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11436	Just for a little while. It is an incorrect assumption that the ministry has accepted the proposals of all of us. On the contrary, see page 20, proposals that are currently on deadlines and the release of one phase were rejected to speed up the process. So it was the ministry's refusal, and it was a proposal in the previous debate on the draft.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11437	Thank you. And on your exposure, we have 2, 4, 6, 7 replicas. Branko Vuksic first answered. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11438	Dear colleague Mesic, I do not agree with you on one thing, we have discussed this several times, I have been to urgent changes on HRT. I'm still behind it. And now what I agree with. I agree with you that we should introduce a test, but we don't have a colleague most of us will be overvoted, there won't be a test. He says we'll propose but it'll be rejected. You weren't in the central journal saying you weren't in the Open. Now you'll be even less in the journal and in the Open. And charge yourself how many times you'll be.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11439	Thank you. The next replica, and her, apologized to her colleague. Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11440	The esteemed president of the Media Committee is impossible to be any less now, so I disagree with you because I've never been one before. Since that TV was under so many HDZ boots, I wasn't once. You understand? And now it's gonna get worse, and then I'm really out of luck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11441	Thank you. Next to the replica, representative Goran Beus Richemberg reported. Here's your colleague, Beus.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11442	It is really moving to listen to you when you call, when you appeal that the debate lasts for 5 months, to achieve a high level of consent, to reach a consensus on these changes and additions. I would ask you here where you were when your ruling majority in the last month of their term of office without any debate, without the presence of the opposition adopted by the fastest possible procedure of more than 40 laws? Where were you then when you were so committed to public discussion, communication, consultation? Are you aware of the damage that occurred then when 40 laws were passed practically so-called. On a fast train? And that you were never on a central news show, no matter what it was about the Dnevnik, the Open or something else, so we're not the ones you should be complaining about. Among you are people who can directly complain about who can go on behalf of HDZ to central information shows, who can come on TV at all and what can be said. And you know very well that just under the HDZ bat, HRT generated all of your speakers. From Cats, Pavic, then these recents you had. So these are all people who came from HTV because you raised that kind of human potential and used it there. So don't complain to us. Talk to your party's spokesmen in, say, your last term while you were minister they could give you a much more quantifiable answer to that question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11443	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, counterpart Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11444	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, I'm impressed with the amount of sensitivity.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11445	The vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11446	Vice President, or Chairman, I apologize. I'm impressed by the amount of sensitivity in my esteemed colleague Beus who said I was complaining. No, I'm not complaining. I'm just saying. Since he mentioned in his statement that I might be moving responsibility with me. No, I'm asking for that responsibility to be investigated until the end, if I accidentally made a mistake somewhere. Just let me. All the political furniture in one way or another tried to control the system, fully aware that whoever controlled the information was controlled by society. And an excerpt from one quote, Mr. Vice President, when the law was passed in 2010. A month before the election, I was campaigning, I admit, during the election I was campaigning. When these 40 laws were passed, I was sitting in the ministry, and I also said that in that term I had 6 amendments and additions to the law, making new laws that were passed unanimously along with your vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11447	Thank you. Next replica, Vice President Joseph Leko. Here's a colleague, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11448	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Mesic. I would repeat what the European Commission's representative says, so no law can prevent any legal solution from being misused by the authorities and according to Croatian broadcasting. I agree with that. E, since the difference is whether we want to choose the director by qualified majority or qualified two-thirds majority. There is no influence when abuse of power is committed. The proof is that your president, the president of the party and the government in which you were the minister on the phone, stopped the decision on the television subscription tax on the radio. Therefore, the leverages of the authorities can be misused publicly and unpublicly. The second attempt to blackmail Croatian television was when your government wanted to eliminate the subscription on Croatian television because it did not suit you on then Croatian television. And you were a minister in that government. And thirdly, what I'm saying is, this debate is especially a large number of HDZ representatives and it's semi-economic, and it's good, and you have the right to do that, but the reason you have here to talk more than in other topics, because other topics you have easy answers to your political views. After 8 years of government of your party and your governments, and the ghastly fall of the standard of living, it is really easier to say that the directors of Croatian television will be elected than how we will fix the standard that was crashed during your rule.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11449	It's time, colleague Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11450	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11451	Thank you. The sooner you are, the correction of an incorrect quote you're not... So you're giving up your correction? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you. Here's to the reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11452	Just make it right if I wasn't a minister while the Prime Minister was Mr. Sanader. And I know that it's not easy for the esteemed Mr. Vice President Leckie to defend something that's almost indefensible. Why did he call here and why are we talking so much? Well, because we're tearing down a political consensus that we had. I believe that Mr. Leco was in a previous assembly session..."so I fight for it, for that concept. So is it possible that we were all less smart together than most in the Parliament today? So I'm saying, is it possible that we're the HDZ that you're saying we wanted to cancel the subscription because it didn't suit us? Well, that means we didn't control him. We're hearing here today that we've been controlling him the whole time. Then that, we're back in college.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11453	Thank you. Next replica representative Dinko Buric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11454	Here is my dear colleague Mesic, who at one point expressed concern about what will happen within 10 months of the report, so to the European Commission. However, I must say, I do not care so much about this report, I am more concerned not about what the report will be about this bill, but about what this bill will mean for Croatian citizens, if it comes to life, and I am afraid that it will come to life. I'm afraid he means new brainwashing to Croatian citizens as it was, not as respected counterpart Anticevic said in the 1990s. In the years of war, rather than the way it was 45 years from 1945 to 1990 when it was precisely in the role of the party, whose today ruling SDP is a follower. Public television served as a function of this brainwashing. And I'm even more worried about the fact that today in Croatia, I don't know if you're aware of the ruling coalition? You will almost find no one who is for this bill in this form, except you 88 of the ruling coalition.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11455	Thank you. We have an answer to your replica. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11456	Well, of course I mentioned it in some way because of that sentence that you repeatedly quoted, you esteemed colleague Mr. Buric and esteemed colleague Stier mentioned several times, that it will continue to be carefully observed. I also think it's not harmless, and I really wouldn't be happy to say that, so to speak, that we have some problems in the ratification process. It would simply not be good for Croatia, it would not be good for all of us, it would not be good for society. And that's what I'm kind of worried about. Since I was encouraged by the great sensitivity of some fellow MPs, any statement I made or my statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11457	Thank you. Next replica representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11458	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here, I'll share my concerns with my colleague Mesic about passing this law. Because really this urgency and speed, this one's faster than if it were the European law, it's faster than it's an emergency procedure. This is the most urgent procedure that could have been and everything is saying that it does not really want to listen to any, critical reference, any proposal constructive that speaks of the need to retain management and management body in HRT, but rather what it looks like, under the exception of the blockade of work and management itself brought by the Information Committee that has the majority... of the Kukuriku coalitions. You've blocked the work and the choice of those who should continue to work and run, which should be decided by the two-thirds majority. I'm hearing today from your fellow MPs that they're going to need authority from whoever's going to report to the principal, as Mr. Kregar says. I interpreted it as really necessary confirmation of... similarity in order for him to be elected. It is a worrying return at the time as counterpart Stazic used to say in his pre-political presentations, the pre-democratic period when the party really ruled and when she spoke about what would be in the programme, what the Croatian people would watch and how complex emissions of fun, educational, informative will be. Everything will be under control and will be clearly asked by a powerful man as Prime Minister when who can be in which place Director... When he first lets someone raise their voice, and I believe it'll be you who'll turn up the HRT to be on one of the shows then. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11459	Thank you. Time. Thank you very much. Next replica, Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11460	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's a fellow Mesic you touched on a very important topic it's a consensus. And there's an interesting finding, after six months, because of course nobody expected the bad economic situation to change, but yes, that at least some structural economic reforms would be launched, and the government didn't do it, and now that it doesn't know more to look ahead for what the crisis is looking for a consensus. But when they say there's a crisis in HRT, then the consensus shouldn't, when it's time to take party personnel, there's no consensus. There they can, however, only they can do it because it is in the interest that the Croatian public can't see or at least hear it. Of course they see very clearly what's going on but at least they don't have to listen to it on the screen and they don't have to see it on HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11461	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, counterpart Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11462	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Stier, you may not know, but I am a supporter of the consensus. In fact, especially in the culture sector, I've said that a few times. And I can repeat that I believe that there are very good decisions that the minister has made. I'm going to say again as an example of a decision on multiannual funding. You may not know that I was a supporter of consensus in that sense before I led the Ministry of Culture, so we had that result in the Assembly and I thank many today for my fellow Members and colleagues who are present today and who voted in favour of this proposal. I was also a supporter of the consensus in the Zagreb Assembly. There is a colleague and colleague here from the Zagreb Assembly who knows that we are Professor Cregar and so we know that I have not voted together with my SDP colleagues unanimously to make some strategic important decisions. Therefore, I do not think that consensus is something bad and I really think that it should always be supported and in some strategic matters for the economic progress of the Republic of Croatia. I really don't understand why this time the consensus that we had the same people who voted for it now wants to tear it down.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11463	Thank you. And the last replica of Hope Turina Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11464	Thank you very much. Well, here's your concern about the monitoring report we're expecting around the 10th month here is really deplaced. We, or you, if you had cared about the picture of Croatia about freedom of the public media back in ten years, would have probably been in the EU for 5, 6, 7. And you're not really worried about the monitoring report, you're really worried that unfortunately you won't be able to abuse, blackmail editors, or directors and editors of HRT, through your own running, and other teamed personnel in HDZ. That's the truth. You are not concerned about what the EU will say about this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11465	Thank you. We have an answer to your replica. A colleague of Mesic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11466	I mean, look at my concern is one thing that can't be deplaced. It's just proof that I have certain sensibilities as well as many MPs in this House. And I've already told you that I've never called any editors, that I've never been an informative guest, so I didn't have the need for surgery, and I didn't even need to intervene when all the bill proposals passed in this House unanimously. So, what are you talking about? On deplacement because in the European Commission's opinion the current law is better than the new proposal? Well, that's what I'm worried about. I thought we were going to get better, that I'm really worried about.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11467	Thank you. Next debate, MP Boris Blazekovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11468	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, it seems to me like I've slept through twenty years of my life, and here I am now in one situation where all the problems that have arisen and the overall situation in society, the economy, the media has been created in the last six months. The Kukuriku coalition is responsible for the situation in which the Croatian society is present. Unbelievable. I must admit that I was not much of my life focused on politics but on some completely different things but certain situations in Croatian society made me simply engage politically in the desire to change it. Thank you to Croatian citizens for my opportunity today to do so actively. This Act on HRT, or amendments to and additions to the HRT Act, are adopted for a reason because HRT simply does not function in a manageable manner. That's the only real reason. Regardless of how we are invited to the consensus that a former law has been passed, which is commendable in any case, and it would be nice for this law to be passed by consensus, you all are free to vote in favour of this law. Regardless of the good intentions of this law, this law has disabled the functional management of HRT and therefore amendments and additions to this law are now being adopted to enable the functioning and management of HRT. Public broadcasting is certainly an unusually important institution in all countries, especially in such a devastated country as Croatia. The Croatian media scene has been systematically destroyed since the early 1990s until today. One of the most important segments of society has been left incompetent to decide its fate, starting with clear party directives, and towards the end with an imminent devastation. Because of these very party directives, tycoon privatisations have again led to the political unreasonable involvement that we are in today. I write certain parts of all my discussions for a reason because I believe that this is a responsible way for Croatian citizens not to skip or make a false claim. The commercialisation of the media picked up its today by summing up a number of journalistic sizes and potential talents. In recent times, the full concern of the state for the media has led to the current situation when an interested citizen has to consult a number of media to get to the real or the full, true information or description of an event. Over the past years, the government has been referring to the media especially those who have not been in its service or have not served it as an enemy activity that somehow managed to get past all of them into society and, in fact, it was best to remove them and yet that there is no such wicked international public who is a strange being, God and ask why and for whose account it protects. With this carelessness and the development of a free, dependent society, the authorities of the media and the media scene have left self-devastation through total commercialisation, which in itself is not bad at all, even more necessary if there is a balance of public, quality, orderly and orderly media space. And it's completely wrong that freedom of the media means total concern for the state and the government for the development of the media space. The state and government have an obligation to take care of media space and to develop media culture and journalistic activities, just as they must worry about the development of political parties, freedom, democracy, as they must care about the development of society as a whole. It is a complex and serious job that requires a competent and really interested authority that is ready and able to use all the resources of the community. But to return to today's topic of this law. Thanks to the total lack of government care over the past 8 years, HINA has been on its knees, and HRT is choking on internal human-clanovic wars and an incredible amount of attempts by some quagmire of strong influence on HRT programmes, various PR agencies, PR experts, free shooters, producers, musical lobbies, manufacturing lobbies, commercial lobbies, etc. In order to see that something on HRT is wrong, especially on HTV, a depth analysis is not necessary although the depth analysis on HTV is welcome. And all interested public and uninterested or semi-interested Croatian citizens see that HRT is simply not good. It is enough to monitor the program itself, its quality and its ratings, to hear the mourners of HRT employees, to peer into technical equipment, to look at financial reports. For a country such as Croatia, which is devastated, a public medium such as HRT is desiccated, and therefore it is high time for the work of HRT to be arranged immediately. Every move in that direction is worth it and it's urgent. If this authority wants to enter structural reforms, and it is obvious that what it shows is both these amendments and additions to the HRT Act, legal frameworks for the functioning and so significant public institutions are necessary. It is about amendments to the laws governing only one part of HRT's work, it is about changes to the law in order to operate. I am convinced that such a proposal to amend and supplement the law just allows for the establishment of a functioning management of this significant house. A large amount of power shall be placed in the hands of the Director-General, who shall be fully responsible for the successful functioning of the HRT and shall share with us parliamentary representatives. HRT is a public and final responsibility for the functioning of this institution by my conviction and should be on democratically elected parliamentary representatives. It is up to us to provide a framework for functioning, which is the selection of the most important control bodies, and it is up to the director to organise technical, programming, editorial, creative work of the institution. The so-called HRT needs to be fully independent, independent and highest level of journalistic and professional and competent grounds without any discrimination of the area or professional ethics to show programs of importance for the whole society and informative, educational, cultural, entertainment and sports programme. Clear and simple. These amendments set out a legal framework that enables the efficient management of HRT. And just another note at the end. I would like to say once again, I have been to all the meetings of the Media Committee, and at no point have I seen nor have I seen that Minister Zlatar deceived any member of the board with her testimony, interpreting, not giving the relevant explanation without giving this text to the board members, but interpreting it in two parts where she said that one part is positive, and that one part with remarks. That's what she said loud and clear. I don't know what record my colleague Stier is calling for, but that record obviously if it's from the last session that record wasn't verified. It's an unconfirmed record, you're referring to an unconfirmed record. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11469	Thank you. We have four replicas on your exhibit. The first came forward by colleague Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11470	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague Boris, you said there was a consensus in passing this law. For the consensus to be all policy options, there are certainly amendments to this second reading. It's supposed to be... which should be... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Any objections and suggestions coming from civil society should be discussed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's missing. I am also to find a way together to resolve the consensus of this law to be... Croatian citizens but also in front of the entire world as well as last time consistent that we want to have the right law which will be both governance and referendum and everything you have spoken of clearly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't see that reports saying anything bad. It's fiction. Reports report on the improvement of the situation on HRT both financially and in the programme. Only if it bothers the fact that the Croatian Radio Television reports the trial of Cacic. Perhaps if it bothers some other reports of the state of the nation and state, the incompetence of the current government. Perhaps about not making the right solutions to this kind of boast in the bill that you want to impose a party dictatorship in Croatian television that has been public so far, and from now on it will be state-owned. And for the last time in the debate, I said, "Stop the subscription, let the ministers finance it, so that it may be theirs, and let them be in charge."
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11471	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica by Representative Boris Blazekovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11472	On the contrary, I think of my colleague Djakic, and I would just like to refer to the part where he talks about the reports. It's the wrong reports. I wasn't talking about it. Namely, you were talking about other reports. I did not talk about what the Croatian Radio Television reported, but I was saying that the Croatian Television Report would be welcome, not about what it reports or what it broadcasts Croatian TV on its shows.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11473	Thank you. The next call came from counterpart Ivan Drmic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11474	Dear colleague Blažekovic, with most of your exposure, I might agree. You have shown in a very good way all the problems that are affecting Croatia today from non-transparent business, from technological lags, delays in Croatian broadcasting and everything else you have listed, I sign it. However, only and perhaps the most important thing that I cannot agree with you is that this proposal will address these problems in a better way. So far, it has been very difficult to control the financial operations of Croatian Radio Television. There are various lobbies, groups of people who use such an anarchical state in Croatian broadcasting where it is minimal or no surveillance and where pubs somewhere around a billion and a half kuna that gathers to put it in a very tough way from Croatian citizens. And last time in my presentation, I mentioned all the performances of Croatian Radio Television and how and of what poor people are charged with radio-television subscription. I think this Law further complicates the situation on Croatian broadcasting because you have completely confused who is appointed by the Director-General, who is appointed by the Supervisory Board, who is supervised and who is responsible for whom. In the future, it will certainly be seen that this business of Croatian broadcasting will be much less transparent, and this so far as it has been very alarming, and certainly something needs to be done to get it back into the frameworks of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11475	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Blazekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11476	I am absolutely convinced that something should have changed and I am also convinced that this solution is a quality solution. Namely, it is our responsibility, the ultimate responsibility for the functioning of the management not for the program, but for the functioning of the management of the HRT is for most representatives of the Croatian Parliament. I think it's the right decision because we are representatives of Croatian citizens and that responsibility for their television must be taken over by us. It's called parliamentary democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11477	Thank you. Next replica Josip Salapic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11478	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Blažekovic, if everything were so good, then this debate would have gone completely differently. I believe and see that the minister, I have been following the minister's work since the entry into the Croatian government, is good. And I believe that the minister is safe to compromise, and the compromise must be such that this debate really should have been wider and longer because it is the interests of Croatian citizens. Croatian broadcasting should be the service of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and not of any political party or government. If we are in favour of consensus, then on key issues for Croatia, we need to go with a two-thirds majority of votes and in these key places. And a particularly respected colleague, if the European Commission has made its remarks that follows Croatia's progress in this very, very crucial time for the country, there has been a change of government, the new government has taken over as you say responsibility for Croatia. It will be very bad if the European Commission gives a negative opinion on some of the laws that the Croatian Parliament has passed recently, but there are several. And that's not good. You're a majority advocate, and maybe that's how you should talk. But when I talk about responsibility for Croatia and for the interests of Croatian citizens, then we need to respond together. And Croatian Radio Television is a service of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and this subscription is paid monthly in difficult conditions and those who do not work receive warnings and commissions for not paying the subscription to Croatian Radio Television, and part of voters who have not given a vote to you, to your foreigners, to your SDP or to your partners, but perhaps to the opposition in the Croatian Parliament. So together, if we will respect the will of Croatian citizens on this sensitive and key issue, we really need to reach a consensus. And I'm sure Madam Secretary agrees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11479	Thank you, too. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Blazekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11480	I would like to say that I agree that it would not be good if anything, which goes towards the European Union and what needs to be brought into line with the acquis and with the rules of the European Union, anything that brings the European Union back to us. I hope it's very little, probably something else, but it's going to be very small, I hope it's negligible. I wish it wasn't at all, but that we're going to make some mistakes somewhere is. This is another story. This is not a matter of acquis and it is not an obligation for Croatia to comply with that part of the law with EU legislation, although in any case it should be observed and the observations made by the European Commission should be considered. But this does not mean that this will not and will not be done, it does not mean that in advance with this solution it is decided that television will be conducted undemocratically, that it will be conducted authoritarianly one-party, only here responsibility has been transferred from one body which was already divided by the political majority of minority opposition votes, from that body to one person who is responsible for us in the Croatian Parliament. My deep belief, you say that I am saying what I must, no, I assure you that I do not and I assure the Croatian public that no, I am saying what I really mean. I really think that the responsibility for managing HRT is in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11481	Thank you. And the last replica, colleague Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11482	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's colleague Blažekovic you asked for this record, this one distributed today from July 2nd, and we didn't write it at HDZ, he was written by professional services, signed by the chairman of the board who opposes this proposal, and I don't see why he would actually sign panegiries or something positive if it wasn't said so. So obviously there was some kind of deception. And the fact that you haven't even been able to read the conclusion of a board that you're a member just proves how fast this debate is and how it's actually completely unquality, and it's only intended to get this proposal on party television as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11483	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Blazekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11484	Mr. Stier, you just said one thing because you don't know whether I read it or not. I said it wasn't verified. It's something completely different. Each minutes shall be verified at the first next session. It's your procedure if you didn't know, it's procedure. And it wasn't done. That will be done, that record will come to the next session of the board. And then when it's verified, it'll be a certified and full-value document. What you're saying is a pamphlet. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11485	Please, colleagues and colleagues, please. We're done with the replicas. Next debate, colleague Zvonko Milas. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11486	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister with an associate. I would no longer go back to whether this House of High House is parliamentary deputies whether they were deceived, if they were, that's a message. We are representative representatives of the Croatian people, it is a message to the entire public. I would return to the first reading of this law again, so on the amendment proposal and the additions where we heard that there was no discussion in the Assembly, and there was no discussion of the Report of the Programme Council, nor was our substantiated report on the operation of HRT in financial, programming at all in operation over the past year. Of course no one questions the legitimacy of the coalition in power to change, it complements laws if it thinks it will improve the area to which the law applies and neither does the HRT Act. However, I personally find the reasons why this, or the reasons for which the amendments to the law are mildly said to me, are foggy. This law that is in force has been passed by consensus. Before that, we got the green light of the European Commission as part of our commitments, and it is simply not clear to me in what sense it is said that HRT has a severe financial crisis, that the management system is not working, and that it is nowhere sub-strategic to us, that it has not been proven to us anywhere, that we like to say it to the other side, which is the other side that was established by law to run that house, has not had the opportunity to tell the MPs, therefore to the public. I have no objection to the fact that even unofficial sources are found, informs about how, how and how HRT works, but if we ignore the governing bodies that have been established by law and I will repeat this to the two-thirds majority, so by consensus, the bodies that have been chosen in this House in such a way that even the editors of both Radio and Television have been chosen with the opinion of creative staff, so journalists and all others who create the programme. Then I wonder why those bodies that were definitely elected legally and couldn't do it any further in time? I think this Parliament is guilty of that, too. The law has definitely not been implemented, and the law is passed in order to be followed and implemented. So, we have not fulfilled the legal obligation to fill the vacant seats in the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board, places that will probably be left in the future of the Programme Council, I don't know why I would like to state for private or other reasons, but I think we all know that more or less all of the reasons why council members have left the current session of the Programme Council and that we have joined the legal fill-in of these places I am sure that the governing bodies would continue to function. Do they work well or not? You can talk about it and you need to talk about it. However, after the election of the editors-in-chief, everything was either stopped or better said, that's when it all started. I will repeat once again, for the first time I dare say, that by two-thirds of all those chosen by this Parliament, a governing, managing body has been established on HRT without any political influence. Maybe that's the problem, too, and maybe that's the problem that needs to be changed, but I repeat if we want to talk about business and everything that's been done about Croatian broadcasting, and we need to hear from those in charge and who are responsible for it, how and how they did it. My colleague Blazekovic said we were responsible, so I agree that we are. Just how much tomorrow's government, or tomorrow's governing body that's going to run the HRT, is going to work badly, what are we going to do about the consequences of that withdrawal, what are we going to give all the collective resignations? What responsibility will we have? I don't understand how we can talk about the financial crisis, if I have no idea at all, we haven't seen a single number of business, finance, in financial terms, to HRT for the past year. I have knowledge that the financial situation is more than solid, consolidated. However, despite the repayable debts that occurred at the time of the great principals that we want to return to the scene today. In the end, what happens? I think that what is most important, and that is what Croatian television produces, that is the program, that is, what is most important to the Croatian public, will simply get hurt. There will be further financial losses, the restructured will suffer, we will have a new VD for 6 months, or 90 days will have to call a tender, etc. etc. I don't see anything good about it. On the other hand, I wonder why we didn't have a public debate between the two readings, why at least we didn't show ourselves so much, so I would say democratically oriented and show the public that our interest in Croatian broadcasting is definitely the most important national media service above all else. It's just that our public interest is above all else, so we're just showing that the political interests and control of HRT are still ahead of the public interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11487	Thank you very much. We've got two replicas on your display. A true colleague named Đurjica Sumrak came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11488	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, fellow Milas, I have listened carefully to your presentations and indeed what I would like to say to you in my replica is that, today we have heard a lot about Croatian television from 90th to now. Nothing of course, and we don't want to go back to the past and hear about Yugoslav television before 90th and the laws that were at the time. However, here you were Croatian defenders, today we heard from several colleagues and colleagues, who were very negative towards Croatian television and laws that were at the time of the 1990s at the time of the Homeland War. So here you as a defender can certainly testify for yourself that it was a time when it really needed, Croatian television really played an important role in this Homeland War. Is a colleague of Craig's, is, is, is. Maybe not for people whose home war wasn't very close or important, but to those to whom it was, I didn't tell you. But for those to whom the Homeland War was really important, Croatian television meant a lot. And they were worth other laws, let them be worth it. But today, here we are today in the 21st century, and we're going back to some laws, one-party, so that's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11489	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Here you go, pal Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11490	Thank you very much. Well, Mrs. Sumrak, of course, has played a major role in times of importance, so to create an independent Republic of Croatia. In the times of the Homeland War, here I will finish my replica with words, I can never forget, I think his name is Vladimir Dopuža, who finished the journal : "Welcome to Croatian defenders wherever they are." So much for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11491	Thank you. And another replica, MP Ivica Mandic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11492	I'd like to rephrase to an esteemed colleague. Perhaps justifiable doubt in the functioning of public television with changes to this law. Since the gentleman, a fellow esteemed representative has experience that as a person from both civil life and associations, he was also a member of the programming council. It's probably not tied up, it's not a direct policy influence on public television, and I see the gentleman is now in the council benches of what I congratulate him on. He would also agree here with all his colleagues, that responsibility should be assumed by the Parliament, in the election of directors, and the directors take responsibility for the functioning of public television. We do not have to be afraid of single-party television here, because there is commercial television in the Republic of Croatia. It is the easiest way to get rid of public television by clicking on another programme, and this time the director will answer to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and before this Assembly. At this point, I have no doubt that public television will be in the service of Croatian citizens and, above all, in the service of this honorable home.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11493	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Here you go, pal Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11494	Thank you very much. My colleague, if I had been to the Programme Council, I was president of the Programme Council and it was my honor and pride and I remembered even my colleague Stazic, who said, "No matter what I am here today, politics is... But he did his job well." So, is that going to happen what you say, whether the principal will take responsibility and lead well? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's all, of course it has to, and whether it's gonna be good is, let it go, we're not psychic Milan. But I'm talking about the current situation, I'm talking about a law that's in force. I'm just curious about what the indicators are, when we're talking about financial or any of the others, who've conditioned the adoption of a new law, and we're calling for them all the time? I have not seen them, nor written them, nor has anyone specifically explained them to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11495	Thank you. The following has been registered for discussion by counterpart Branko Vuksic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11496	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's because I had no right to replicate those who replicated. Only a few ambiguities to explain what Croatia's broadcasting is. Here's a colleague who's distracting me on the side, just to say that public television isn't what he thinks public television is. He says, "Citizens who pay 80 kunas a month need a click, if they don't like the program, go to another program." Here's the understanding of public television, so he thinks it's just another commercial television that's being paid for there by some kind of coercion. Second, great ignorance, constantly barging concepts between governance and editing. That's exactly what I'm trying to do, and in the past debates, I've been saying what management is, which is editing. Managers can't get involved in the work of editors. They're not allowed under the law, and it's even going to be contradictory because we're waiting for you to pass it, and then we're going to try to bring those laws down because we see that this isn't going anywhere. First, because of the public not because of colleagues, the conclusion is not given to the verification of the committee but rather to the minutes for verification, and the conclusion is signed by the chairman of the committee and he is responsible for that conclusion. Prior to the Council's composition, the composition of the EU council has brought politicians back to the programme councils. Let's say the Republic of Austria did it and they said the best council was before they were politicians in it and now it's best I heard it from the director of Austrian television where I was a guest for a few days. And now, not to the HDZ colleagues, you shouldn't have your eyes wide open. Yes, your speakers determined what programs would be on HRT, Maček was a far more influential person than any editor of the information program. Mr. Marcinko was once on direct contact with Zagreb's famous hill, and afterwards the Cat of the Ban Courts was steering and these are facts that you can easily check. And now about this law and the reasons why this law was passed. Yes, the situation on HRT is extraordinary. Someone asked if it was an emergency. It's not an emergency in the state, but it's extremely bad on HRT. The crisis is multiple and above all, the biggest crisis is the program. The program is infantile and about the program could talk for three hours, analyze what's wrong with that program. It was supposed to stop that state of emergency but not this way. We're just going to do it now that there's going to be another set that will potentiate with your people's state of emergency because the system is bad. There's no system good in which one man decides everything. Let's put an end to Parliament, bring in the king and establish a dictatorship. That's the best thing, then, what you're doing is that. It would be called the enemy takeover of HRT, it's the enemy takeover of HRT. It will decide everything, you do not have the right to do it because a billion and 200 million kunas are paid by Croatian citizens. What else is the problem with this law? No respect for citizens, no respect for profession, no respect for civil society. Earlier, the minister said they had not found a formula to include civil society that had very many civil society associations. But you see they found a formula to exclude civil society from the decision-making process on HRT. Who in this Chamber thinks that the processes in the media are much better for the development of media freedoms for the editor-in-chief to be appointed by one man, that the editor-in-chief corresponds to one man who is not allowed to interfere in the arrangement in the nature of business. The editor-in-chief will be appointed by the Director-General, and the Director-General will approve or not approve the editor-in-chiefs on the proposal of the editor-in-chief. That means all editors on HRT will be free will of the Director General. Let's even respect that right of yours, which is why you took away that last right, which is necessarily the opinion of the press. I will repeat again, there are commercial media in Western European television and even printed media, in American media, commercial media, private media where the editor-in-chief is obliged to choose the opinion of journalists. We just shut it down on public television, we said we shouldn't because we have Superman who's gonna know how to do it. And now you say the honorable word, believe us. What would they believe? What this 22 years on HRT that has always been in some relationship relationship were once secrets public with politics, and now I agree there is no impact either HDZ or SDP on HRT, there are clicks. A colleague asked before some indicators need indicators as to why it's a bad condition. The first indicators are that five council members resigned. No member of the council has resigned because of what he said or left what the Press Committee said was bad for, the Media Committee is guilty, the Parliament and I'm being sneezed at by the Parliament or I'm being sneezed at here and that party. They all left because they disagreed with editorial policy and the influence of individual clans on HRT. So the culprit is certainly not out of TV for this condition. What I always said when I talked to the HRT journalists and they bear the responsibility of the bad situation on HRT because they agreed to be the servants of the master. They shouldn't have done that. He doesn't justify a loan or his condition in the family at the service. I'm sure he doesn't. It was a question of whether it was a new law or not, is it not a new law? It's a new law because the essence is new, I'm sorry everything else is when this law was passed that you're all so boasting was alone for a few debates. One of them was at the Faculty of Philosophy where I said this was a bad law because I don't do it. I'm with my colleagues in the Kukuriku coalition completely agreeing. This is a bad inconclusive law. It's if it's inconclusive, then it's bad. Because they're also mixing competences as they mix competences now actually don't mix competences now they're competences in the hands of one man so he can do everything. Before I have to answer it for the public not because of a fellow who is no longer present, he said here that this is not a party group but a Parliament. That's what a colleague from the SDP said and I'm just saying that it's not prescribed in the Parliament to speak poor, brown or simple language and that it can be spoken in a literary way even though it was here in the Parliament of very good speakers that people just appreciated because of it. And in the end, I'd still be talking about the blacklists. Blacklists exist from before, blacklists exist already now and angry those who have found themselves on the previous ones on this one are very thick across. Blacklists are already being worked in political cabinets and it is true that the programme has been restarted by speakers and PRs to lead on Croatian television. After all, it is known that the editor "Dnevnik 3" spoke or learned from him the day and a half before the publication of that famous email from Minister Holy. No one has raised from the Kukurik coalition a question of responsibility, no one has asked well how this can happen, and now all the time you say that the Croatian Parliament is responsible for what is happening on Croatian television. So why didn't someone ask about it? We in opposition have asked why it happened, why it happens that way. It's simple that if you pass this law, you've failed a test of democracy, you've abolished freedom of the media, you've trampled those liquids that we thought were released from the bottle and can't go back. But what I'm saying again, I'm going to repeat it every time, the editor-in-chief chooses in the political cabinet, and that's what someone says because we answer, 78 of us. So you simply admit that political will will elect the editor-in-chief.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11497	Thank you. We have three replicas. Comrade Josip Djakić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11498	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague of Vuksic you've noticed well. Yes, editorial integrity will matter to be violated and broken by this law and by this choice of editors, programs. In any case, it can only be said about him that he protects the professional interest of journalists from all forms of political influence and so should be, as well as the influence of other social groups and individuals, and in order to provide credible, quality information to the public. Quality means excellence, ethics, innovation, boldness, thoroughness, accuracy, credibility, competence in the design of the most modern journalistic and media formats. All this comes under question by this law and by the way of selecting those who will implement such political decisions by this majority who have devised a law that will dictate the work of all these editors and then journalists. You can see that in the last six months. It started like you said. blacklists are made, deals are in the biggest... and now we turn it all into a legal framework, clearly saying that editorial integrity we're going to cross, it's a dead letter on paper. Quality, diversity and public interest should absolutely not be represented. Interests in the Kukuriku coalition must be first, so it should be defined in the law. Interests in the Kukuriku coalition must first and foremost be represented in this law and on HRT. That's what they wanted to say with this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11499	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Comrade Vuksic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11500	Dear Mr. Djakic, I agree that editorial integrity will be violated. It is perfectly natural that, normally, even if the editor-in-chief should be accountable to the body that monitors the program, which analyses the program, which is the council. The editor-in-chief of this law, I claim, because this law because the essence has been changed, will now correspond to the Director-General. The principal can be replaced, you have a provision there, not to be asked now, a wrongly spoken good day may be replaced by the editor-in-chief. So I'm saying this isn't a political message, this isn't a political debate, it's protecting the freedom of journalists. I've been in that profession too long to cross that kind of thing. The editor-in-chief is the one who has to be independent, the editor-in-chief is the one who has to make decisions alone, normally according to high journalistic criteria. And as for blacklists just to clarify, blacklists editors even work on their own initiative to court the authorities. You know it's the worst autocensorship, autocensorship is worse than censorship because a journalist says maybe it bothers the authorities, so we won't. So these blacklists are made, and if we analyze together, we can analyze all the club representatives for five days of the program and you'll see how it's done today.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11501	Thank you. We have another replica, colleague Zvonko Milas. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11502	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Vuksic, I really don't doubt the sincerity of your intentions that the state of television should be as you say. But imagine what the Programme Council will look like when elected in the way this law should be chosen. So 9 members if I'm not mistaken who will choose most plus 2 journalists who are there, the explanation is about to make it easier to integrate the council into the house, i.e. into the program, etc. It's not clear to me, it's like a chef in front of a guest saying how he ate, praised him, etc., instead of the guest saying whether he was okay or not. And leaving the council was and unfortunately will always be, the reasons are always different. Sometimes because of the clans, but let's say this case happened because, Mr. Kujundzic went into politics, Mr. Tomic I think because of the work I'm doing, Mr. Grivic is due to the obligations he had as president of the Chamber of Agriculture, etc., etc. So I repeat, this council was composed of really competent people, five doctors, three doctors in the media field. If anyone could say something quantifiable about it and if anyone had done something under the influence of politics it was a council that is still living. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11503	Thank you, too. Replicate response, please welcome colleague Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11504	Dear colleague, I'm sure it's crucial to the functioning of the HRT Program Council. The programme council should be composed of experts, we have said, but these experts assume they are not related to politics and are not in conflict of interest. Mr. Tomic probably left because of a conflict of interest because he makes films, in fact, movie scenarios that are always co-produced with HRT. But now imagine how much there will be in the conflict of interest of two journalists who will sit in that Programme Council. I really can't believe it, first I believed it, now it doesn't matter why I believed it at first because it was good for a journalist to be some sort of bond, however no. If we do not allow conflict of interest in the Programme Council then journalists have no place in the Programme Council. Then they must also play for one side. That's what I said before when I said I don't know what's going to happen at that point, whether he'll be a member of the Programme Council and a journalist at the same time, how he'll evaluate the contributions of his colleagues and his contributions. I'm sure we should go back to the way things were, make 11 journalists. Journalists certainly have other ways of expressing their dissatisfactions and can express their dissatisfactions to the Programme Council if it is the Programme Council that will actually have some kind of influence. This program council without authority, and we know that it's not just an observation, an analysis. It's certainly not like I said before. It'll be more for the botanists' analysis than for the Program Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11505	Thank you. And the last replica, counterpart Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11506	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Vuksic, you were talking about the incompetence of this law. And it is very easy to see that this law is very enforceable and so that on Friday, when this parliamentary majority of those who come usually raise their hands on Fridays will be held for the sake of hand-lifting. So, it's going to be carried out. Well, whatever it is you think he's inconclusive. And further, really, when I look at this material as well as the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council and the Director-General, then it's quite clear that the spirit that you were talking about that came out of the bottle was actually a spirit of non-democracy that was hidden after the Third International and the spirit of the Third International once again lives. This is one example of that spirit of the Third International.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11507	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Vuksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11508	Here I must disappoint you. I was talking about the past law. I was talking about a law that is now in force, so not this new one. This one's very expendable because a man does everything in his own hands. So I was talking about the current applicable law. He's inconclusive. And when the debates were over, I talked about only bringing trouble, and then I was convinced by some members of the Kukuriku coalition that I was mistaken and that it would be... I was right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As I can tell in advance, I'm not a psychic, Milan. Someone said this law would bring very big trouble to Croatia's broadcasting.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11509	Thank you. The following has been registered for discussion by the representative Sunchana Glavak. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11510	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Jelic, our minister is gone for a while. So I'm going to go back to what was mentioned many times, which is that the remarks that were made after the first reading were simply not adopted or ignored. What came today in front of MPs are small cosmetic procedures not enough to embellish the image which is wanted to be made by these amendments to the Law on Croatian Television. I'd say they're only superficial because, for example, the CEO can't be replaced unless his report is accepted. It's accepted as a suggestion and what then. And then we'll say hello again. We've heard that before. Sorry didn't accept his report, and then what? There's a new person coming in, and we're gonna have someone new again, so it's gonna be here again if his report isn't accepted and so on. I don't know how many persons, how many directors, how many V.D.s, and so we can have an endless selection cycle of the main person on Croatian radio. So, the editorial independence that we all swear or swear to so far, let's not forget much depends on financial independence, and that should be said clearly. Under the conditions of financial threat, especially if funding depends on political decisions, editorial independence is also at risk. Public media service is forced by its programme to meet politicians, sometimes visible, sometimes invisible but also commercial interests of course to ensure existence. The reasons and reasons we had the opportunity to see are not why the management is actually abolished and why the director-in-chief function is reintroduced. And I'll remind the HRT again has over 3,000 employees. There's a lot of money going around, and he's interesting to many. We give the Director-General extremely high authority. In addition, I remind the law mixes functions, its manager functions, a man who must manage this vast resource compared to those of the content especially in the part where we talk about editing the program. We heard some kind of epithetism today. For example, for HRT we heard lag behind that he has an Infantile Program. So, please, colleagues and colleagues in the Croatian Parliament, are you watching HRT like that? So how many candidates are there here for the head director? So get out of your political functions, get out of your chair, go ahead, hand over your books, your IDs, whatever it is you call it, and come to the moon. Go, run for office. Be brave! It is the easiest thing to spit on everything that is done on Croatian radio and everyone knows everything about what is going on under the grains, above the grains, who has such or such lists. Therefore, when you talk about Croatian broadcasting, you speak with arguments. You mentioned some of your esteemed colleagues, journalists. You've been telling the truth. A colleague of Latin is doing the journal today. A colleague of Elizabeth Gojan, one of the top foreign-political journalists, is following foreign policy. Follow, of course, our officials who of course do not perform foreign entertainment policy in their cabinet in Zagreb but follow them around the world. My colleague Maja North works in the Croatian live newsroom. Are you even watching that program? Do you know anything about this program? Or the only thing you know is that you need to adopt a law like this, and that this law should be passed immediately, immediately on Friday, so that everyone who is to be replaced can be changed nicely next week. Equally fellow board president, so we'll have an extraordinary session. I think it's inevitable, not the Parliament, but at least the board, because we're going to have to decapitate the house somehow. That's what the law says. So, the Committee on Information, Information and Media wherever you are members of the Committee, please choose to return to wherever you are. I guess from Spain if someone goes on the road then they'll pay him travel expenses to come to an extraordinary session. So that's what the law predicts. We must, within 8 days of the day of entry into force of this law, appoint the acting director for a term of 6 months. It doesn't say who this person has to be, what criteria he has to meet, he doesn't write anything. We can bring in anyone, but we have to name someone or, of course, the parliamentary majority will do so, and we will definitely see each other at an extraordinary session. That is what we will vote on, or what you will vote on Friday. Likewise, if this Director-General, who will one day sit in that tempting chair of the Director-General, will not be able to behave, then he will need a deputy, and the deputy should take over. And that person does not verify any body, at least this law has in no way explained to us the qualifications of that person and once again what time-limit it may be appointed and what powers it would be. The Director-General continues to elect the editors-in-chief and who will report to the competition and, of course, the one with whom he has agreed. So what's someone going to do at the competition if they know what I mean, don't answer it, look, I didn't make a deal with you here because it's going to be removed. So I think this is very creamy, that this is very irresponsible and very unarranged. Editors, editors must be the first among journalists. Editors must be authorities. Not because the editor writes to them, but because he simply has to be the authority of journalists, not to be the last among those who make decisions or who manage. In order for the press profession to be kept from unprofessional interests, from unprofessional decisions, from any influences, and that seemed here and today, forgive us not everyone can know everything and we're not all qualified for everything, so let's not all deal with HRT because we think we've heard or read somewhere or someone told us something's wrong there because this someone is doing something different than maybe we should. So we can't function at gossip level when we're talking about public service. Instead of talking about editors-in-chief whose criteria should primarily be expertise or professional qualifications, we lost it immediately at the beginning. The Chief Director, therefore, is elected by the Parliament by the majority, so whatever they want to call it a very clear dictionary for the public to understand us, this is the most direct political interference in HRT management. That actually means what it means, the Director-General will come and go with a shift of power. His function will therefore be in hands or his fate will depend on whoever has the power in the Croatian Parliament. Since he is responsible for everything and for the finances, the editorial policy will therefore be decided by the parliamentary majority on HRT. I'll say a few more words about the contract. Full respect for the negotiation and signing of the contract is a prerequisite for HRT financing to be considered legitimate. For months now, colleagues from the other side of the assembly, including ministers, have assured the Croatian public that there is a crisis of governance on HRT that can only be solved by a new law, and that was an argument that the bodies were not being filled. And what happened? Because of this responsibility last week, the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council were unable to adopt the draft contract in accordance with the law and send it to the Government. It is not the law in force, nor the people working in those bodies, but only the parliamentary majority that obstructed the filling of the body. And it's just like that. With what right do I ask myself, and who gave the mandate to play in this way and to compromise your actions by inacting financial independence and the stability of HRT? Since my time at the end I will conclude HRT must remain a public service, who doesn't know its definition nicely please read. I am not sure that before the next elections, whenever you are, you from the parliamentary majority will not reach again for HRT, but in a completely different way, by turning back the the thesis and putting forward a legislative proposal that will be completely contrary to this today. I'm not sure, but we'll see. There are our words, they're recorded, so we'll be able to convince ourselves of the truth or the untrueness of the truth. Let us refrain only from the declassified statements and flat-rate solutions offered by this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11511	Thank you, too. We have one replica on your exhibit. Comrade Branko Vuksic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11512	Dear colleague Glavak, I absolutely agree with you that financial independence is very important for HRT, and I even think that it is equally important for political independence if not more important than political independence. I'm one of the few who advocates abolishing that subscription precisely because of financial independence modeling the BBC and I don't have enough time to explain why it is, but certainly many tycoons that advertise, companies that advertise on HRT have their own demands. I don't agree with you that there's no mobbing on HRT, that's where the press is being blackmailed. Elizabetha Gojan, Maja North, Denis Latin, Robert Zuber, Sanja Mikleušević-Pavic, Aleksandar Stankovic, all of them either got their fingers on because they dared to talk about corruption on HRT, Aleksandar Stankovic was persecuted for having dared in the Parliament to talk about it. The rest of them have two yellow charts, just waiting for them when they're thrown on the road. So what Dennis Latin is doing tonight is commendable for working the journal, but we know that Eve Sanader lost his Latino. We know what's been done. We know the speakers were taking the shows off the screen. I mean, let's not close our eyes right now and pretend like nothing's ever happened before. Once again, I repeat that in my opinion there were enough final provisions in the second month and that changes could then be made and that we could now do the comprehensive work, which is a change of the Law on HRT and all other media laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11513	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Agent Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11514	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Vuksic, I don't know if there's a mobbing, I say again, everybody knows something, everyone's saying something. The colleagues you mentioned, I know some of them well. Some of them I've worked with. Who took off or didn't take off, I mean, if you have something concrete, go ahead and say it loud and clear. Don't impute someone to do something because you heard it again. So we're going back to the gossip level. And thirdly, when the law was in line with the State aid rules, actually the greatest effort was made then and the most debate was being held in order to oversee business. So let's not forget it, and there's always talk of stealing on HRT. I'm saying over 3,000 employees didn't steal anything. If there were only one roll of toilet paper, my men there would be no more bricks or buildings. So don't bring any flat-rates. If you know anything, you're obliged to report it. It needs to be processed, to prove it, who, what, when, why, how, in what way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11515	Thank you, too. Next up for debate, Vice President Nenad Stazic reported. Here's a colleague of the Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11516	Brussels has said this about this law to the Government, Brussels has written about this law to the Government, Brussels is very angry that the government is proposing such a law. This government is listening too much to Brussels when it comes to this law, and nearly five hours is debated on this proposal in this assembly. And the truth is that this law is not at all the subject of aki, so it does not belong to the legal property of the European Union, it does not need to be harmonised. And why it does not need to be coordinated, something said by counterpart Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Because European practice is different. Somewhere administrations, directors name monarchs, kings, queens, somewhere government, somewhere in the upper house of Parliament, somewhere in the House of Commons, somewhere in cooperation as in France, half the president I mean the upper home. When you ask a Frenchman as you are now sure the president will appoint the best people in this Programme Council. This is what we actually have in France, the Council for Electronic Media, they award concessions, they take concessions and they manage public television. Or, the Programme Council is public television. When you ask a Frenchman how do you now know that the president will choose the best, then every Frenchman will tell you because there is no better in France, there is no better. They always name the best. So the practice is different, so it can't even be a unified model. Every model has its advantages and disadvantages, it doesn't have ideal ones, so this one's not ideal either, about it a little later. The second complaint heard quite loudly here is why the government has now divided the text benches from Brussels into English. And when the debate began, it was asked to divide the text from Brussels, so when the text from Brussels was divided, then it started to grow, and why it was divided into English. So on which to divide rather than on which he arrived. Well, I'd still understand that the text was shared in Chinese, so it's a little harder to read Chinese letter, but in English, that it created such anxiety with the MPs, it's not too clear to me. Especially when the document was divided at the request of the MPs and the very same ones who asked for it to be divided, they were most loud. What they got, because they were offended by what had been shared, which fulfilled their request. The third remark, the authorities will abuse this law because it is written so that it can be misused. ... The government can abuse any law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He can abuse the situation he's in power. I don't have to explain it to you HDZ colleagues, you know that very well. How can power be misused? Whether the government will abuse the situation that is in power or not depends on that authority, on the quality of the government. There's no law that can stop it. So was there a law in Croatia under which black funds could be held by a party, under which money could be drawn from public companies? I don't know about such a law. Well, if it was happening, it was happening. So why, because the government was dishonest, that's why nothing else. Is this power going to abuse this law, so if it's a bad power, then it will, if it's not a bad power, then it won't. What is the real power of Croatian broadcasting today, what is its political influence? Small, the end of two other TVs with a national concession. Which, according to the ratings, is now being won by HRT. What is the power, so it can continue to collapse, can fall into the power of the Vesnik and can experience the fate of the Vesnik if this government does not deal with Croatian broadcasting. We warned then in opposition to the position of the Vesnik, we prayed to the former government, we begged him to do something, to make a public newspaper out of the Vesnik, you didn't want him to remain a party bulletin. What happened? So no one wanted to read it, no one wanted to buy the Vjesnik at the kiosk, given four kunas for him, and it fell apart. The workers are leaving now, the press is on the road, you've ruined it. One who would try to use it the same way as the radio, so you know what he'd experience? Well, that's the same thing. Radio TV would fail because no one would look at it, people would stop paying taxes because they would say we wouldn't pay to watch propaganda shows, political shows there, they wouldn't pay and TV would fail. Well, it's just crazy heads that someone can make that thing run in that direction. Once the power of this public television, or Croatian television, was great because it was the only television, there was no competition. By 1990 absolute power, absolute power on that television had a party. What happened in the 1990 elections HDZ won too much. Well, that HRT wasn't then called RadioTelevision Zagreb that helped the party win. By 2000 HDZ had absolute authority on HRT, so watch out for the vice-president of the party Mr. Vrdoljak, vice-president of the party, was also Deputy Prime Minister or I don't know what he was in the government. He was the director of HRT, director directly. So did that help HDZ stay in power in 2000? Well, no, HDZ lost the election. Therefore, this matter should not be mystified and exaggerated in this regard, neither helped nor could it be helped. What are the reasons why this law is changing, so do you think someone with a healthy head would go and change the law that works, which applies, and which gives good results? So would someone with a healthy head go and change the law if everything on HRT was okay? But there, the administration is demanding that the chairman-in-chief of the Supervisory Board, the chairman of the Supervisory Board, be replaced by a complete administration. The program council has fallen apart. This programme council left immediately Sanja Ivić, when they chose this editor-in-chief of television, and two members of the council, Tomic and Gorstein, wrote an article about why they were coming out of anger, actually said they would stay inside and write as they were doing so that other people could laugh, not just them. The council has fallen apart. This programme council until it fell apart as it had not chosen as editors-in-chief those who had the support of 75% of the creative staff, but it was those who collected barely 51%. There creative people are not allowed to work or give them some side jobs, so there's a general circus. Well, the government would be extremely irresponsible if you let that circus continue because what would happen to HRT? No matter what happened with the Vesnik, it would have failed. 3.5 thousand people on the street. Well, we're not going to let that happen just because someone couldn't complain about it without content and no meaning. This probably isn't the happiest form of law. He's a typical of what I said when I first read it. I'm not too happy about it myself. But we all know that in good faith we have tried to work on the past law, in good faith and both sides and that by consensus we have passed a law which but let's face it, does not give the expected result. It does not give the quality of neither the program nor the quality of HRT management, does not give, unfortunately does not give. Well, no one happier than the government and me and you to give, but he doesn't. And now it has to be fixed. It's got to be rectified. Such examples are not unknown to Europe, examples of the composition of the administration, examples of the composition of the programme council. It is not unknown to Europe because of this we will not be a dictatorial country, and I am convinced that the Government will not abuse this. And if you tried to be a bad government, you'd just show it nothing but a bad government. And the second consequence that would come out of it is to destroy HRT and any further influence on that HRT because it would fail. So if we care about that house, if we care about saving it from where it's going and it's not going well, then let's accept this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11517	Thank you, too. There are three incorrect allegations and two replicas reported for your presentation. The first to make amends was Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11518	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's my colleague Stazić's more than that, it was incorrect and you disagreed with your own opinion that you expressed in 2010 but I'm only going to make one thing right. The proposal and request was translated from the commission's letter into Croatian and distributed thus. You probably forgot that. But it was a request and it hasn't been done yet. So it's not something later when we get there and then we're looking again rather than from the beginning. We requested a letter from the European Commission to distribute all parliamentary representatives and this translation into Croatian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11519	Thank you. The next correction of Mrs. Gurjica Sumrak's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11520	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So here I wanted to make the same correction of this incorrect quote in the famous speech by Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Assembly of Stazić, but here's my colleague Stier said what I wanted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11521	Thank you. And the last correction of colleague Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11522	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Vice President Stazic, you have incorrectly said that HRT could experience the fate of the Vesnik. HRT is funded by the state from the state budget, and also by citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia pay for the RTV subscription. If they do not pay it, they will receive a commission, a reminder, even those who do not. So it's not true. But it is true if you continue to explain the laws that should be passed by consensus that we will all fail together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11523	Thank you. And the first replica came from MP Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11524	Thank you very much. It is out of the statement of Vice-President Stazic that HRT is the government's concern that the government is slowly watching exactly what we are actually arguing about today, which is the fact that the government and, clearly, the Kukuriku coalition wants to take over public television. Public because it is public, national, Croatian. Now, in addition to all this, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament is seeking the trust of all Parliamentarians in the good faith and intent of the same government, so he asks us all to believe that they have good faith and hope. So if our good faith towards the government is the Kukurik coalition, which is why this same Kukurik coalition doesn't allow it to have good faith in us as well, so we vote for the two-thirds majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11525	Thank you. We have an answer to your replica. Here you go, my fellow vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11526	Look, the founder of HRT is the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the government does not take anything from itself. The government's election must take care of something owned by the Republic of Croatia. She can't give it up if she gave it up would be a completely irresponsible government. The budget I don't really know was a correction, I'm not now, not from your colleague who says HRT is being funded from the budget. That's completely untrue. Well, that's how you correct the assumption that you're telling a complete lie because you don't know the situation. There is not one drop in the budget that does not go to HRT, HRT is funded by citizens through tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11527	Thank you. And the last replica, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11528	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's colleague Stazic, vice president of this House, speaking in his own style, asking us to be constructive. We listened to you in construction, jointly solved your remarks. The ministry and the Ministry of Culture have observed all the remarks that were made during the first reading. We don't see it this time, we don't see it at your place. The 12 amendments that the HDZ Club has made to the procedure, we do not see that you have tried anything to solve with consensus what we really cannot accept and what we cannot agree with. What you're talking about is that the commission has no objections. It is true that it is not part of the acquis but the commission is ordering, it warned of the achieved standards of ensuring independence of the governing body from the parliamentary majority. And it's unclear how that opinion can be so easily rejected. As you say today, the budget is not being financed. Well, according to the new law, you were president of the Information Committee when the law was passed and you know that by temporary contract for part of the programme, the Croatian Government provides funds. This is really what you wanted to stop, what you were talking about coming back again, putting on public television to be state-owned. That's what you were fighting against, that's what your testimony says, that's what you discussed, and you said that we don't want that system anymore, that we don't want that anymore. And it's not true when you say it's blocked and nothing's wrong. It was blocked by those who have a majority in the Committee on Information and Media, which is you, the coalition. The Kukuriku coalition does not want the Programme Council to function either, which still has most and has not fallen apart, but should have complemented it with competent people and professionally to continue to make decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11529	Thank you very much. We have a reply to the replica, fellow Vice President Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11530	We didn't block it from choosing those who have significant support for creative staff for editors. Well, it wasn't us who blocked it. If there is our responsibility, but colleague Djakic and yours are that we didn't send enough quality people to this Programme Council, at least some of them. And that they weren't responsible enough to take advantage of the quality of the law that we gave them and that television led to success, not failure. They didn't have enough responsibility, it's our responsibility. Now we have to fix it. I call on you to be constructive that, if you care about something the founder of the Republic of Croatia represents the property of the Republic of Croatia, which represents a significant cultural good, not to allow, all together not to let it fail. The call to declare this to the 2/3th majority, and listen, we must first change the Constitution, first of all, because the Constitution says which laws are passed to the 2/3th majority, which qualified by the majority, which to the common majority. Therefore, when something is called, let us appeal in harmony with reason and in accordance with the applicable regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11531	Thank you. Before I give my word to my colleague Ivanka Roksandić, we cannot correct my colleague Mesic in a replica or reply to the replica. It's okay, it's okay. It's okay. It's okay. Here are my colleagues, Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11532	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's what my colleague Stazic said, and that's what offered me. He's telling me we've been discussing this law for five hours now, so we're discussing and we're going to discuss it because we haven't had a chance to discuss it anywhere else between the two readings. We heard that today in many of these discussions. I am surprised only by what happened, and my colleague Stazic left, we were together in the past term as well as some of these colleagues, and I remember a good discussion of what was being conducted in the Committee on Information, Information and Media and at the plenary session when this current law was passed. I remember just how much we all pointed out that a stable, responsible HRT management should be ensured, how financial stability should be ensured, for which the European Commission has also given the green light. And today we heard in this opinion from the European Commission that this current law is much better, it makes better solutions for the safety and survival of HRT. But I don't know what happened between that debate a year ago of some of the same people sitting here today in the assembly and this new proposal, because then they praised and greatly praised both the ministry and the minister because public television is generally good, it can't belong to either the government or the party. Governments change, parties come to power, public television can't be election prey because it's not good for that television to change its leadership, its concept every time after the election. So we're only six months after the election, changing everything we've just advocated in the debate in the adoption of a valid law, and we've advocated precisely impartial, full information, that we can't listen to the editor's comments in the news. We pointed out that every time we discussed the report here in the assembly, the Programme Council and the work of the HRT. At that point, we were warning again and again about the intransparent spending of money, we never fully proved it, but we discussed and highlighted the importance of this medium. And what did we get by this law? I will not repeat and repeat what we did when we first read this law and what we warned or did not change anything. Nothing, almost nothing came from the proposals we heard from colleagues and colleagues in this assembly, except one single one, which is that the principal director is elected on the basis of a public tender, that he chooses editors, editors-in-chiefs and editors of the programme on the basis of a public tender. He's calling a contest, he's picking out, the only thing that's coming out of the contest and he's been setting them up so far. Secondly, we cut the deadlines for the appointment of the Director-General, so the Committee on Information, Information and Media, as said by colleague Glavak, will have a very quick job and I don't know when it will be able to do so because from the day we pass this law, when it will be operational within 8 days, it will propose this committee to the Croatian Parliament appointing v.d. So I believe he's already prepared somewhere, that this appointment is prepared and that he'll just come to our tables. So nothing, absolutely none of those good proposals, I'm holding good suggestions that the opposition warned of, has been chosen. I'm curious to know if we're going to extend some deadlines, the deadline for the competition to be called for principal directors, temporary or v.d. Director, within 90 days and then ask for consent. Are we going to bring this whole procedure to a point where we might even have V.D. Director by the end of this year, so maybe even six months if that contest has to be cancelled, if there is no appointment of the director. I'm asking myself one question to all of us, if we're going to have a crisis on HRT again, if we're going to change anything. We're not going to change anything, because these changes of colleagues and colleagues really don't change anything, except that, I'm going to use one non-Croatian word, which is quickly, so that we can get to another reading, so that we can get to another reading, to justify that purpose and that goal of passing this law, and we put it in a leadership position, to be the principal of the person most and what policy will. That's exactly what we get from this law. That's why I'm troubled by that consensus that we had when we passed this law, the current law. Well, often in this assembly of colleagues and colleagues, we are all from opposition and from ruling call for consensus on some important matters. counterpart Mesic said he was always up for deals. I also belong to those people who believe that if something is for the benefit of the Croatian people and of our country, our Croatia that we must have some sort of agreement. We are this agreement of colleagues and colleagues, respecting that HRT is something that is too important and the activity of HRT is too important for Croatian society in the past term and achieved. Is this law entirely good or not in practice? That's what we should talk about. But apparently there are political brakes, however, a colleague, Vukusic, who is holding back the application of the current law. Vuksic, I apologize, which makes the application stop. And what we're about to get now is what you said well. If we pass the law on Friday, we fail a democracy exam. Unfortunately, however, this government falls daily on the test of democracy. Almost all the laws we've been making lately, which we're discussing, are so cosmetically just fixed little colored, and behind it is mostly hidden you'll see colleagues and colleagues when you do a little bit of an analysis of the law in fact changing the management structure. Another law will soon come to debate the Law on the National Foundation for Science where, under the password, we want to unite all resources for the development of science in one place again, we are changing the management structure of the National Foundation. And then the citizens are already asking themselves in public, not just us? So we can put our people in the right places. Here's the answer, the answer why we have to go after, I'll tell the ambulance because this is an emergency procedure for me. Ten days ago, we had our first reading. This week we have another reading without that public debate. I have to apologize to my colleagues who invited me to the Press House for this debate. What are we going to do? What are we going to discuss? We can only satisfy that kind of civil obligation of ours and the need to do something in some place with civil society associations like the representatives we've chosen from the people to discuss. Otherwise, there's no point in this debate because she won't be anywhere. We won't be able to hear her anywhere. We who wanted to attend her will not be able to tell her anywhere. Here, I don't think we're doing well, that's another indication that we're actually passing laws in an emergency procedure just so we can re-using, to put similar people in the right places at first. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11533	Thank you very much to the honourable representative. And the next is the distinguished representative Martina Banic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11534	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. My debate today on the final proposal of the Croatian Radio Television Act will be very short and will not differ much from my last debate from ten days ago when we also had a draft of the bill mentioned. The reason is not only because colleagues have already said everything but the reason is that the main remarks relating to the selection of the Programme Council, the Supervisory Board and the Director-General are not respected. This confirms what I said before, and this is the absolute control of Croatian broadcasting. We turn Croatian radio television into a government service or more precisely into a Kukuriku coalition service. The final proposal to amend the HRT Act suggests that the editor-in-chief of Croatian Radio Television should be appointed within 8 days of the adoption of the law. The deadline for the appointment of the temporary director of HRT by the Assembly Committee for Information was reduced from 30 to 8 days and the term of the appointment was 6 months, while the deadline for the opening of the tender for the Director-General was extended to 90 days. It follows from the above that the only objective without a proper debate is to appoint a temporary director who will literally control the programme as soon as possible. As a result, it is difficult to take away the impression that the Kukuriku coalition, because of its ineffectiveness, foresees negative trends it wants to influence through Croatian radiotelevision. So they decided to work on their image in a way that Croatian broadcasting serves them as a PR agency. And on statements coming from the government these days that the government has no political motive in proposing changes and has no intention of editing the information programme is hard to believe. However, cosmetic change has been made, and now the editor-in-chief and editors of individual programmes will be elected by the Director-General on the basis of the public tender, with the previous opinion of journalists and other employees, and all other powers that are truly broad remain with the Director-General. Thus, the Director-General should manage the business, dispose of real estate, the property, propose to the Supervisory Board the Statute of the HRT, adopt general acts, propose a work programme and financial plan of the Croatian Television, etc. These days, a warning comes from a significant number of human rights associations, cultural institutions, professional associations whose representatives have shown disagreement with the proposed law. As we have already heard on Thursday, it is announced and round table on which representatives of different cultural institutions and civil society will speak about the bill and how they announced that they will send the government a message on how to adopt the law, but will present their position on the removal of civil society associations from the decision-making process on Croatia's broadcasting. My colleagues and colleagues, we are increasingly witnessing that the government is calling for decision-making by political consensus, and at the same time we are changing the laws that we have passed by consensus, and we have praised the broad public debate that has failed this time. The only thing I have left to say is that this proposal is not the way we are going to solve the problems on Croatian TV. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11535	Thank you very much to the honourable representative. The next is distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11536	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister with an associate. So here's how it was going to help HRT. It would certainly fill the Program Council with those missing members. That it could have been the same because of the circumstances under which an excuse was sought for the adoption of a new law and to resolve those which are both within the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council four years ago by the Committee on Information and Media which opened the competition for the Programme Council and for the Supervisory Board. If it had been possible, it could have been the same as the members of the foundation and the Croatian Defence Fund. Just as before the deadline was resolved, so could these if they hadn’t really done their job well. Anything could've just wanted to. But it was targeted to pass a new law that would install a political dictatorship by installing a political commissioner who would run public television, under allegations public. Never again will this law be public but it will be state-run. It'll be state-owned because that's what the majority of the Parliament wants. The parliamentary majority that found common language in the past term, which passed the law by consensus together with us, which praised him, who spoke to the most beautiful about the work of the Ministry of Culture and the Government that found a consensus that HRT would be truly public and that in this democratic process that is ongoing and constantly regenerating and perfecting, we would come to the conclusion that by bringing together the clubs of the majority and minority representatives, we would come to a reasonable decision on how to decide on members of the Programme Council, as well as members of the Supervisory Board, and then at the Administration of the HRT. HRT management is really responsible, because it is a complex, large system such as HRT and certainly needs quality and qualified management and its responsibility. According to the results, they have taken steps to reduce consumption, financing and dubiosis in HRT, they have taken certain steps in the current and past term of 2011 and in these first months 2012. But that's not enough. They are not likely to be, or can be, told by colleagues that they have seen examples of political instruction on how to create a program. They probably exaggerated on some of their shows, whether informative character or others who talk about events in Croatia. I guess someone didn't like it, and that's why it went to a change of law. I don't see why our amendments aren't being considered this time. Why hasn't the debate been held, why isn't civil society heard, why hasn't everyone who's decided so far been involved? The public hearing lasted a month last time. Month, full month. Over 40 proposals were received, opinions on the text of the draft proposal. Most of it's appreciated. Following the end of the public debate, the text has been revised in detail and addressed to the European Commission. In its opinion, the General Information Society and Media Administration and the General Competition Administration were given the agreement. Where are they today? Is there any today? We see that the European Commission and its relevant factors speak of the fact that the current law is better than this proposed. And that is what worries us that we are coming into a sphere that will not be good for Croatia, which will not be good for the Croatian public, which will certainly bring trouble to everyone. And it could have been different. It could have happened without this force now applied by most because each force lasts for a period of time. It won't help to cover up any affairs, any nebuloses, any failures in law making, any defenses when it comes to defending its coalition partner, any errors in terms that have been ridiculed in the past, criticised. And it can't be said that it's a responsibility on one person and on a policy that will govern. This is an important issue for the Croatian state, this is an important issue of public television or state television, it is a question of party television and the division of party prey or not. Be assured I've been listening to all this, seeing this speed, the speed in passing this bill recognized a strict goal. And he believes he will ultimately manifest himself in other things he would not want to do. Now HRT begins its program with the Croatian anthem. And finishes his program with the Croatian anthem. This kind of performances of speed, intransparentity and desire to nominate as soon as possible one who will be responsible and likened only to coalition partners in the Kukurik coalition can expect the HRT programme to begin with the corning of the singer and thus end. I believe that the drinking coward will stop when that drinker is finished in the pot. Because they can't interpret these intentions differently so clearly without the public, without public debate, without those relevant factors that have so far warned about everything that is happening in this law, and the law clearly and transparently speaks about what a contract is with the Government, what programmes will be financed, what citizens pay for, how to present themselves in the Croatian public, what a responsibility should be, how to protect the interests of editors and the lack of political interference in editorial policy, which is quality, which is editorial integrity, which is diversity. These are all things that are clearly defined and you can't get away from them. The Croatian public will not allow, be assured, such an arrogant, impertinent amendment of the law. I believe even those who sent warnings, even though I wouldn't want to. I would not like to wait at all for Serbia in our European integrations, as Mr Buric said, I would not want it to be a reason and I do not want to talk about it at all or doubt that this is the reason why we constantly defy the European Commission. I would not want that to be true because I absolutely believe that we have brought this consensus that we have completed negotiations and that we are a member of the EU where we belong. I believe that we will not wake up with the corning of the drinkers, with the program of Croatian Radio Television and that we will not end this way. I believe that there will be reason for the amendments proposed by the HDZ to be respected, and for a consensus to be found in this because we will never again be able to appeal to each other for consensus on any issues that were in force today for the Croatian state. If we can't find a consensus on this and a consensus on how we're going to deal with economic opportunities, how in the case of legal solutions that aren't real, they're going to get out of the crisis. How we'll look for each other when it's hard for Croatia, and it's hard for her now. How do you intend to make important decisions in the future by consensus and before the eyes of the European Union to stand together. You all swore this was the best law, here's a transparent display of Vice President Stazic as chairman of the Improvisation Committee at the time, colleagues Beus and all the others who participated in the debate, I analyzed everything. It's the best, it's the most democratic, it's with a lot of respect for us as an opposition to which you gave the opportunity to make our remarks into law. Well, I used to be at it a little bit, and I wouldn't. They assured me that it was good and that it was definitely going the right way and I was sure that we were on the right track, that we had passed the Law on Croatian Public Television that would be worth a long time and that it would work in the right way. I see that there is no, this is a goal only, the boast of the majority who does not want to obey any democratic principles and does not want to install those amendments that would surely find a common way in further work and business.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11537	Thank you. We have two replicas on your exhibit. Representative Petar Baravanovic first reported. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11538	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. Representative Djakic expressed concern about the start and end of Croatia's broadcasting programme. Don't worry, there won't be any cowards. You'll listen to the anthem. When and if the rooster will end up in a pot, then. Your thoughts and predictions as to how things will happen under this law one way or another, it is very likely to stem from your well-known methodology of your party's work wherever the government puts everything under its party control. And even to the function of honorary work of what we call a skating, these are hardworking and hardworking people who keep the cities clean. Is it not possible to become a member of the HDZ to defeat your party in Sibenik until the defeat of your party or the Scots was signed? But back to the topic, the topic is Croatian Radio Television. What he wants to do with this law is never again to have one of the key party authorities, as was Mr. Vrdoljak to be the director of television, nor to be the director of today's former youth president of a political party. What it wants to prevent is that very influential editors are not members of the main board of one party, by chance it is HDZ, and also some 4 or 5 speakers from your party's colleague Glavak, to Memun, Matček and other teams, have exited the incubator. Don't tell us, please don't lecture us on party staffing, at least don't give us HDZ lessons. It is, however, an insult to the common sense of the intelligence of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The criticism of the law is absolutely legitimate, but not about party personneling, at least not you HDZ gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11539	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Representative Josip Djakić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11540	So here's my colleague Baranovic asked me not to give lessons, I'm just going to share what's reality and truth. And this is next, in 2001 and then by law since 2003, the SDP has then decided to create public television. He won the HRT as an election prey in 2000. And the first director then Galic won his first term in a way that Prime Minister Racan proposed him to the parliament, and the parliament voted him as HRT director. So one way to choose the leaders of some major organizations. That's what your Vice President Stazic, the Parliament said. That's what your colleague Beus Richembergh said, too. And he said he was against it. I don't know how they changed their minds today, and they're in this way today. Exactly the same way they were against. This testifies that there's no thinking with your head, no more what I had a year ago just, it's out of memory, it has to be because the party dictator says so. Someone resented him badly on Croatian television, someone was in some option where he shouldn't have been, someone put something in the program that shouldn't have been. And the leader of this coalition is Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, probably his dictatorship must be listened and you must no longer have an opinion. That's what these testimonies have been saying in the discussions about this law that is still in force. And I assure you, therefore, that you are not quite right when you talk about squabblings, because Croatian broadcasting cannot be imagined or compared to any kind of squabbling. Various people, various commitments that are and editorial policy, which have been the most believed in HDZ this whole time, but are not touched or removed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11541	Time. Thank you. We have another replica. Representative Damir Rimac. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11542	The Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister. Dear counterpart Djakic, I propose and appeal to refrain from deplaced statements and pulsism primarily concerning the Croatian anthem. And a few words about speed, speed and intransparentity that you mentioned. Namely, several discussions confirmed, established and concluded, and also held at a session of the committee we had yesterday, but also at the plenary session at the first reading. That the situation in Croatia is unsatisfactory, that the financial situation is catastrophic and that organisational policy, i.e. the organisation of business, is facing extremely big problems. So these are all the elements of the state of emergency that requires rapid action. A quick 10-year-old act that's in effect on HRT. The elements of crisis management that exist on HRT require quick and effective action to at least try to change the situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11543	Thank you. Here's my colleague Djakic, reply to the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11544	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, you're not exactly a young colleague this time either. Since the report and a press release by the president of the programme council clearly states that you did not have this 920-page Croatian House report on the situation on HRT wanted to deliver it, the government rejected it to have the excuse to say that the situation is wrong, that there is a revolution, that there is crisis management, that there is a crisis, that there is horror. That's absolutely not true. And financial indicators show that HRT is heading towards a good path and recovery. It was necessary to fill the programming council so that it could decide for two-thirds of the majority and disband both the programme council and the supervisory board before the deadline... for new ones. And you could have done anything in six months that you wanted to help HRT be public. You wanted it to be yours. And that's the whole problem, there's no demagogy. This clearly shows the speed, non-transparency, non-cooperation, not showing a single hint that one amendment of these 12 would accept talks about not wanting to cooperate with those who gave their hand when needed, when needed for both the EU and ourselves, and that HRT would be public. You don't understand that today. Today you are surrounded by fences that shouldn't be in these moments when we should respect each other and look at the reality that lies ahead. It won't be good for you to see. There will be more political games in this House and we will discuss what is happening. They were alive and seen. I told you every force is...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11545	Thank you. Next up for debate, Vice President Zeljko Reiner reported. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11546	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Madam Minister. Well, here I would first refer to what was last said and repeatedly repeated as a sort of mantra, and that's the story of how everything on HTV is now a mess, the program is bad, nobody's watching, nothing's good, economic down, etc. When the previous law was passed in December 2010, and I will highlight the consensus of all political parties in the Croatian Parliament at the time, the law was made in line with the positive acquis of both the EU and the Council of Europe, it passed two readings in the European Commission, it was positively accepted in the Eurovision and was actually seen even outside of Croatia as a desirable model for the functioning of public television and beyond in the transition countries of Southeast Europe. It was actually adopted as part of harmonising Croatian legislation with EU standards as one of the preconditions for accession to the Union, as part of Chapter 23 on human rights. And then I remind you, and now I'm going to quote exactly what I said to the consensus that is becoming the representatives of the current coalition government and most of them are saying exactly the opposite of what they're saying right now. I will now quote, for example, a respected representative of Stazic, who said about the law: "I think he deserves praise because public television is generally good. She can't belong to either government or strangers. Governments change, parties come to power, public television can't be an election prey because it's not good for that television to change its leadership, its concepts every time after the election. This law represents giving up television etatization, etc." So exactly the opposite of what's happening now and what's being said here as a reason for changing the law. Because I repeat, if some law changes so quickly in a year and a half, I guess it's no good then. Then we change it or we have to change it because it's not right. That's where we see actually the people who are now talking against him were talking about. Here, let me quote another important coalition partner, the respected representative of Goran Beus Richembergh, who then said, "HRT is one of the strongest brands that Croatia has at all. It's one of the best-quality media through which we can express not only our identity but also our interests. HRT is the only medium that can be reached from other countries of the entire Yugoslav speech area, very simply with a high dose of respect." I have to say, if we're talking about the data for the last five years, after five years, the ratings of television began to rise again. About a week ago, HRT received a prestigious award from media houses and 16 Southeast European states when it was selected as the best among 110 media houses. Therefore, there are actually no statements that this is wrong, that all of this has been ruined, etc. These statements are actually an excuse to make human resources changes on HTV, to rule over HTV and to turn it into an authoritarian service of the ruling parliamentary majority, and we will have one situation that we will have only a state-owned company that will not have administration but a single director with absolute authorities, the power to make business decisions, the authorisation to quote "repeat from the execution of the HRT Programme Council and directorship if he considers it," so he personally considers that he is not in accordance with the law and that he is jeopardising the operation of HRT, whatever the concept of the Croatian Agency's activities could be put in place, and of course all sorts of things can be put in place. The director will appoint and resolve the editor-in-chief of HRT and Croatian Radio, so they will absolutely depend on him, he will appoint his deputy, again quote "to manage and manage HRT's business decisions on the availability of real estate and property of HRT, he will propose the Statute of the HRT, bring general acts of HRT, propose a financial plan and final account of the HRT", and therefore no one else should be there obviously on that HRT because he will have all the powers and all the power. The HRT Programme Council will actually come to the attention of one singing society, one singing society that can possibly discuss the program after all, and then what will debate will not have to tang anyone again. So all this together comes down to the dictatorship of actually one man who will be given huge powers, completely eliminates the role of civil society, which, of course, now through elected members of its ranks could participate, decided on the choice of editor-in-chief, programs, television, radio, etc. Therefore, what is not for the first time happening with Croatian television will happen. I know that the Croatian people have this famous amnesia disease, but I remind you that we saw that scenario in 2002. Then the government led by this same party as it has now organised under the name "Forum 21" pressure, changed the law, returned to politics on television, installed the footage of a particular party profile, and then the same body, "Forum 21" ceased to exist, carried out his entrusted task, and what happened happened happened. So the thing repeats itself, history repeats itself, unfortunately people forget what happened 10 years ago. The same thing is happening now, the programme council's work has been blocked on purpose even though it has been since the parliamentary elections for 6 months, if there were political will this Parliament, the ruling majority had enough time to elect new council members, which would, of course, allow for the normal functioning of the HRT. Obviously, it was not wanted because it wanted to change the humane structure of the HRT administration and rule the HRT. Therefore, we need to make it very clear what this is all about, and I think we all know that. It is clear to those of us who speak and point out that this will be done. We know that there is a majority of the ruling, and we know that no matter what we say now, we have spent this vast number of hours on it, the will of a political majority will be carried out. However, it should be pointed out and it should be made clear that this is not good, it is exactly the opposite of what happened two years ago with that same law because it was then that consensus was reached, a conversation was reached. The ruling majority then accepted suggestions and reached consensus, and now it does not want to be done and I think it is certainly not good for the HRT and neither for the Croatian state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11547	Thank you, too. We have three replicas on your exhibit. Representative Boro Grubisic first reported. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11548	A colleague of mine and a representative of the Parliament, a colleague of Reiner. Namely, I was present personally with a speech that you quoted, and colleagues of Stazic today, Vice Presidents of Parliament and Mr Beus Richembergh, when these praises or praises were expressed at the expense of the law that was in force so far. I'd say, just a year and a half ago, we compare those speeches that were given then and we're listening to these shows today, we should actually be wondering if it's a hypocrisy. Still, we are asked to have what they said and to believe in good intentions. So if such praises are given, which is why we have this bill today in the debate, the amendments to this law, and so much praise was given a year and a half ago. Is this about hypocrisy and the end of it?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11549	Thank you. We have the next line, colleague Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11550	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's colleague Reiner, we need to make it clear what this is. The central issue that is being raised gave real political interference to HRT's editorial policy is in force through this law, is it really going to be a moment when editorial integrity that clearly protects professional interests of editors and journalists against all forms of political action will be destroyed. Don't we really realize that it's on stage through this law that we want to stop it from being like this, that we want to improve through everything we've put into the amendments. Do we really not want this to be a public television that will be in the service of citizens, to be satisfied, to be a public interest in the HRT's response to the needs and wishes of the users of all age, gender, national groups that finance it and oversee it. Can't we really see that this kind of political harassment isn't good and it doesn't lead to good? Why did we not appoint new members of the Programme Council instead of these five members, call for tenders if we know that Tomic was in conflict of interest and resigned, Grivicic also left because he was no longer in the Chamber of Agriculture. Sanja Ivić, I don't know what the reason, Milan Kujundzic, is in politics, Victoria Car. So these are people who are all replaceable and could choose new, high-quality, professional to continue filling out the Program Council and continuing their work. I don't see any reason to put it just because it's such a catastrophic situation on Croatian television. That's absolutely not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11551	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11552	Dear Mr. Representative, I think it's true that you said that all of this was actually not done simply because today, or Friday, you could choose a new leadership that would be similar, which you would listen to. And of course it could have, of course these five people could have changed in all these desert months. It is clear that they could have assumed their function normally, it was clear that this one crisis of governance with HRT could have been normalized, which was caused by various reasons. I believe that there were, of course, tenorous reasons, but of course, it could have been done all the time but it wouldn't have been done. It was not intended to be done precisely so that the law could be offered today and that it could be voted by the majority on Friday and made the same structure as the party's will. It's clear to all of us that this is the case, so this question of yours, I consider exclusively rhetorical. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11553	Thank you. And the last replica, Representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11554	Dear colleague Reiner, for the truth's sake, you said HRT had won a prestigious award between 16 countries, etc. You believed the logo on HRT, it was pardoned for the expression rape of the audience, it's a minor not prestigious prize, it's an obscenity award. It's a reward that such companies have won that it's useless to spend one word on these companies that they've won and not who the Golden Kuna is for that Oscar. This was just one trick that was made. It is actually one scam, a hoax and a Croatian journalistic society has requested that the stamp be removed from Croatian broadcasting, and that is just another proof that this administration and this TV leadership should have been replaced by me once again, I said a long time ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11555	Thank you. We're moving on to the debate. Agent Dinko Bosnjak called. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11556	Thank you, Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister, fellow MPs. The adoption of a final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Croatian Television will allow political installation of the head director of HRT, which will further appoint its political counterparts and editors-in-chiefs. Article 8(5) of the Law states that before the appointment of the editors-in-chief, the Director-General will request the advisory opinion of journalists and other employees who are creatively involved in the creation of a programme on whether candidates for the election can successfully carry out the duties for which they are competing or for whom they are proposed. Nowhere stands what happens in case that opinion is extremely negative. So it is clear to all of us that this will serve as a cover for political decisions and choices of the like. The explanation of the reasons why the law is passed is about modern public television. We can believe everything, but it is not possible that the politically appointed editors-in-chief will represent the interest of all citizens in Croatian broadcasting. More will be that they will convince us that the measures taken by the government point to the light at the end of the tunnel, not that the real truth is that they pushed us even deeper into the recession. Maybe we should fix a government rating that falls from day to day and hastens with this bill to convince us in public media that under this government we are never better than that we are not aware enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11557	Thank you. And last reported for an individual debate, MP of colleague Davorin Mlakar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11558	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd start a little different from my colleagues, although a lot of the most important things are said in this law. I would say as the first finding this is not the law on Croatian radio television, these are not even amendments to the Law on Croatian Radio Television. This is the law on the human policy of the ruling coalition or the ruling party, and I will explain the data from the law itself. Of the 25 articles of the law offered to us on benches 23, it speaks exclusively of staffing, the appointment of individual bodies and their competencies. Only two articles and this article 1 talk about business, something about expanding business of Croatian radio television. And what is not humanizing is the last article in Article 25 of this Law that says that this law enters into force on the day of its publication in "The People's Newspaper". So, even in these two articles, I am convinced that it wasn't the expert team that did it, but it was exclusively politically colored law. Even in those two articles, the proposer was not correct enough to take into account some of the principles adopted by civilised peoples as it is said in legal terminology, which is that every law, if there are no particularly justified reasons, gets a deadline for getting to know the public with the text, the content of the law and what this law regulates. So, the walkie-talkies that eight-day deadline is left in the rule of all the laws that those to whom the law refers have opportunities to know the content of the law. I don't really see any reason why this law is being passed, so the law goes into effect on the day of its publication in the People's Newspaper. What is important, therefore, is that the law speaks exclusively of human beings, of setting people up for important functions in Croatian broadcasting, and all the time we're listening to stories about the situation on the radio, about how there's a reason to edit this media house differently. Some of the comparisons that can be used are also considered, as the situation in the Vesnik publishing company and in the printed media cannot be compared to electronic media. And I think there is a big difference and a significant impact of public television which unfortunately the printed media does not have, but at the same time I can't be an argument when it comes to the Law on Croatian Television. What many have already said you assure us as has come from Zoran Milanovic's workshop several laws, so you have assured us that competitions are a less transparent way of naming and selecting than it is a political appointment to individual functions. These were reasons with the adoption of the Civil Service Act. It was also an explanation when people were changing from top executive duties to a lot of lower levels of responsibility in public enterprises. It is now said in the adoption of this Trust Act that we should have that this system is better, that it is better to have one man who represents an entire public institution than it was the administration of more board members who guaranteed in some way a democratic decision-making process in public television. And then to show to what extent this creamy proposed law, which should be called the Staffing Law on Croatian Television, is proof that for this principal director, for this most important person or the most important person who will manage public television, they need weaker, less conditions than they need conditions for members of the Supervisory Board and the same television. So the work experience for the principal is prescribed for 5 years, and for members of the Supervisory Board for 10 years. That's unconsistent. This is a quick addressed provision that probably had no purpose at all to regulate relations on public television, but was meant to meet the tasks that were obtained in order to get rid of resolutions as soon as possible and then appoint executives. The question of the election of the Director-General, the knowledge that these people are responding to the competition must possess is the authority mentioned in the law, but nowhere has it been said that they will be determined, who will establish and what are objective criteria and indicators that those who will receive the Director-General tomorrow know what his knowledge and skills are, or how you wrote among other knowledge at least 5 years of working experience in the management of business systems, knowledge of media legislation and new information technologies and other conditions prescribed by the Statute. When and how to exercise such knowledge, there is not a single word or can be determined what that person should know to be chosen in that place by the simple majority as you suggest. And what I think is important to say, it's obviously not even an obedient profession, it's not only public opinion, civil society, but probably those people who have worked creatively in public service, those people who have kept that house all these years and who probably have the most right to give their opinion who would be the people who can run that house. It's our opinion, and the proverb is that man and ass know more than just a man. Perhaps the administration of a multi-member knows more than one even the superman of the Director and of all the brands this house built I would believe in this law if you had written only one article if Djelo Hadziselimović had chosen. But these people will not be chosen by Djelo Hadziselimovic, these people will choose politics and because of this we look with great anxiety at the application of this law. All the remarks we made and in the debate in the first reading have not recently been taken into account. Even in Article 12, in what is essential for the work of the Supervisory Board, it must be stated that the Supervisory Board oversees the work of the Director-General. You missed the enrollment, too. You refer us to other provisions from which we should understand that in some ways the Director-General should but not necessarily and must answer to the Supervisory Board. And except that it corresponds to the Parliament that will choose it or appoint it he must answer to the Supervisory Board because the Supervisory Board oversees not only the work of the HRT but also its Director-General. And at the same time, if the amateurs hadn't written the law, he couldn't, this Director General, participate in the work of the bodies that oversee his work and in the work of the directorship, because then the question is what all these bodies you've counted on would be enough to conclude that HRT only needs one single Chief Director set up by the parliamentary majority, and that will be that new value offered by this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11559	Thank you, too. We have two replicas on your exhibit. The first one came to a colleague, Jasen Mesic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11560	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I'm surprised that dear colleague Mlakar is surprised that this law comes into force on the day of its publication, not eight days after the publication in the National Journal, as is common, often. It's just a matter of math. Namely, it is so calculated to arrive during this assembly session to pass the law, to vote it, to name the natural v.d. Chief Director, we'll propose it through the board and we'll order the board president to call it in, make a quick proposal here, and on Friday, it seems to me it's nice to vote it out and go quietly on a vacation. But because we're a little hasty here, then we're going to call it V.D. My colleague, Mlakar, gives him a 90-day term so he doesn't have to rush to call a public tender, have a good, think carefully about how to really choose the best bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11561	Thank you. Next replica, MP Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11562	Yes, that fellow Mesic and his colleague, Mlakar, is at the hearing of Mr. Mlakar, that the black Friday and the 13th day will actually be the day that a part of democracy in the Republic of Croatia will die in some way without any shame, shame, without shame, completely no shame. As was the best way of putting it, you were talking about the criteria of those who would be on both the Supervisory Board and the Council of the HRT, so you talked about it, as it was, without criteria, set in the same way and exactly the same methodology as the director of HEP that I admitted that he knew nothing of it. But that's why 20 assistants will be employed, and I don't know which ones, the ones that will help him in HEP, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11563	Thank you. That's what ended the individual debate. We're moving on to a five-minute debate on behalf of the representatives' clubs. The first came from the Croatian Labour Party. A colleague, Branko Vuksic. ... I'm sorry, it was all wrong with me. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] On behalf of the HDZ club, colleague Jasen Mesic. Here you go for five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11564	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister. Here it is at the end of this debate about the final proposal of this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the HRT Act let's say it's this hypothetical if we really respect the opinion that the situation on HRT is that we actually hear from someone that it's really the way it wants to be shown, let's say. What do you think this Chief Director who gets elected will he have more authority and strength if he is chosen by consensus or two-thirds here in the Croatian Parliament or only if he is chosen by most? What do you think this man and those bodies that are going to be voted under this law and who are obviously going to be voted by the majority, will they have greater authority and power if they are elected two-thirds or if 50% plus one is chosen? If you need to deal with these piled-up problems under your mousse. And it's not the Constitution. The law can be passed as legally passed, here is a matter of body selection and in the European Commission's opinion it writes nicely. So, it's about the procedure of selecting a body on HRT, we can pass the law as the law is passed, and then finely in the law we prescribe that the head director is elected two-thirds. If that's the case, if that's what that's all about. I don't think that's the main problem, I think HRT's problems are very much in the future. That is why we insisted on the strategy during our first reading. I think it's terribly important to reach a consensus about that, too. Because HRT is really an institution of strategic interest in preserving cultural identity. So that we can think differently in one country of 5 million people, 4.5 million people entering European integration of hundreds of millions. How are you going to protect culture, language, your audiovisual sector, expression, in which way, if we are already questioning that fourth channel about culture? In what way? This is not how you want to do it. I think it should be, it should be the first sentence of that strategy that we think should have been the basis of this law, maybe in some way you would have believed that some... But I know that there were people here who were on their blogs, as soon as there was a change of government saying we're going to change the law, they're all going to be replaced within a month, super-messages, super-messages. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The people here, our colleagues and colleagues, that's how they wrote on their blogs and, of course, that's kind of in their best interests. I see a certain kind of rematchism here, I don't see much of a concern about the functioning of the system. That's why I don't believe it's not good this way. The law can be passed fifty plus one but let's bring it to two-thirds of the majority. Or you really think it's much better to vote it yourself, you really think that's how much better HRT is going to work. In the last two years you've had a few financial losses, that if we got a report from the Program Council then we'd see it. If we could have had a financial business debate on any committee, then we would have seen it. You are currently in a position to be given a legal provision on the fee, i.e. on state aid, because by 1.7 a proposal for a new contract was to be submitted to the Government, which is the basis and the assumption that there would be a subscription, together with a joint opinion of the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council. That's not what he thinks, is it not the bodies that are not filled? If commercial televisions press charges at this point, they'll get a deal with the government that's not respected, and without a subscription contract, there's no. Think about it, think about it. I know it may be hard for you right now, that you're bored, but I'm telling you the truth, and the law makes it clear, and I believe that the minister can confirm it. That's what we wanted to warn you today with this debate. Thank you very much. I don't have a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11565	Thank you. It's not a warning, it's a warning about the end of time. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Party, colleague Branko Vukšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11566	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor. I don't need to, I don't agree that everything needs to be replaced, everything on Croatia's broadcasting should be replaced, it should be said that there are very, very good journalists, good editors, professionals, quality and not even a problem in knowledge and those who do bad work, in ignorance but rather a problem in service, in self-censorship, i.e. wrong management of Croatian television. From the beginning we agree, Kukuriku coalition and Croatian Labourists. I'm just talking about the way. They asked my colleagues if we'd put amendments to this bill, of course we wouldn't give the bill, it wasn't even included in the debate, it doesn't make sense. This is a rape of democracy because it orders everything you say, that's what "Psi barks, caravans pass through."we'll pass the law anyway, we'll put under our control. Maybe even, now I admit maybe they're with some good intentions, maybe you really believe, now that you're listening you might really believe that, I mean. This one, well, but they believe in power on Croatian television. The worst part is that you're afraid of journalists, the advisory character, so what it means is we're going to ask the press, you want, you know what it is, it seems to me that the editor of the information program was chosen in this way, and when she got 48% of the journalist's opinion, then she said, so what does that have to do with it is only 2% missing, nothing else, and she was. It is Hloverka Novak-Srzić, who for 15 or 17 years has been lighting and burning on Croatian TV. Earlier, a colleague from HDZ asked me if I knew anything, so here they reported to the Croatian Parliament by journalists, Aleksandar Stankovic spoke about corruption on Croatian radio. Do I know that someone is being punished, that they have yellow records, they have notices before they're fired, just for what they're saying? Elizabeth Gojan was warned of being fired because as union president, or president of a journalistic society, now do not hold my word, said what she must as union president, cannot separate those two functions, received a notice before being fired. Maya North has been replaced because she speaks, the Maya North has received a notice of resignation. There the holy people, there people are called to coffee and threatening and saying, "They're threatening, trying to bribe, they're doing things." We all close our eyes, if the police know, know the police, I said the last time, it's in the paper, it's concrete data. The police found out and the policy said move away, leave HRT alone. So it's all known that some of the codes here have first heard that something bad is happening on Croatian radio. The key is the relationship between the editor-in-chief, the editor-in-chief, the journalist-in-chief. The Director-General must not be involved in the programme, and he interferes with the setting himself without anyone participating in the process. The director-in-chief calls the competition, based on the competition, determines who he will receive for the editor-in-chief of the radio, which I must say, we have not said a word to the Croatian Radio, which seems uninteresting, which is good, which is very good. So it's a mix-up that we're going to try to challenge because it can't be done, other laws are in the way. Practice in Europe does not allow those who manage the company to interfere in the affairs of the editors. Are commercial and public television competitive? No, they're not. It's only unfortunate that commercial television is better in public content than public television. The information program on commercial televisions than public television, or it's more visible, is mostly something wrong with that. The other contents must not be matched. HRT must not be the third commercial television, HRT's mission is to "serving" the public's interest, drama programme, educational programme and entertainment program but not licensed domestically. And in the end, just to tell you what HRT is today, the only biggest brand he's ever chosen, he hasn't recorded, he hasn't come up with, he hasn't directed, he's chosen. It's a disgrace to HRT. It is certain that Croatian Labourists cannot support such a law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11567	Thank you. We have a correction to the incorrect quote of counterpart Marelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11568	Mr. Vice President. Here's my colleague Vuksic said something, and maybe I've been a bad listener all along, but I've been in the assembly the whole time. The right side of the silence didn't react, something's happening. Is this condition certain this is the state of broadcasting that's happening today, and that's why this law has been given to change like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11569	Thank you. And a debate on behalf of the HNS club Petar Baranovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11570	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. The HNS club will support such a law and support the reasons for its adoption, and they can, in our opinion, be classified as two basic groups. One is a financial, material and technical situation on HRT because believe it or not these people who are standing here with us tonight have salaries so low that you would probably remain shocked, 75% of HTV employees have a salary of up to 4000 kuna and it is only a miracle and probably life acrobatics how they manage to have patience until this late hour to record this transfer and work for such modest receipts. The second is what journalists have experienced through the history of HRT I don't normally read if you noticed when I exhibited in the name of the club either individually but this time I had to take a jokebachter because I would probably forget to mention some of the freshest cases just... of Latina, Ana Jelinić, Elizabeth Gojan, Maja North, Robert Zuber, Sanja Mikleušević, Aco Stanković, Aleksandar Stnković, Lela Knezevic, Zoran Sprajc we can still count, they all got yellow. One chart, two charts, warnings before exclusion, and not all because I don't know how they alienated certain material assets or committed some kind of failure to come to work for very clear reasons, they didn't fit the criteria of editorial policy, you know which one. From Mr. Tonchi Vrdoljak to the current director through the editor-in-chief of a series of speakers who later came to HDZ, it is clear to all how human resources policy was conducted in most of HRT history. It is clear that such dominations and such a way of functioning of HTV HDZ will not be so easily denied. There was controversy over the opinion of the European Commission. This debate at this late hour reminds me of a long-standing debate on the Law on the Ecological Fisheries Belt of the Republic of Croatia when the next opinions of the European Commission have been violated by our own Constitution, the International Law of the Sea, the International Convention on the Law of the Sea of '82. We have trampled even the fundamental postulates of the EU's functioning on their request and their legal gain because we have listened to the opinion and have no character. That is why we need to make one thing very clear, the opinion is not binding, it is binding on the Croatian Constitution. He alone is above this House, he and others for the believers, for agnostics I leave them in a dilemma. The validity of this law will be shown very soon. Then perhaps you gentlemen will get arguments from the opposition to criticise power as counterpart Stazic, who is now gone in that case, will not be good if we act in the same way. Technology well-known, in these discussions you've shown quite a bit. You know technology, you have experience in political personneling, it's hard to catch up with you. I don't think we'll ever be so skillful, never so consistent, so complete, without error. It's hard to reach. The debate between the two readings and the public polemics, it may have been a short time but there was time and the controversy could open within 10 days. It could have opened the polemics and could have held round tables. However this government's intention through this law and its urgency in making that the house that this year's financial projection based on the functioning of the business on two hypotheses, one that will increase the level of TV subscription why there are no permits for now, and the other that there is an agreement with trade unions on the reduction of rights that are already low. As I said just before, no deal with HTV employees was reached. Television is in a difficult financial organisational state and an absolute deficit of operating criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11571	Thank you. On your exhibit, we have three corrections to the incorrect assumption. Representative Jasen Mesic first reported. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11572	Thank you. An esteemed colleague said the incorrect assumption is to know what was the software policy on HTV. But it has absolutely nothing to do with these amendments and the additions to the law, is it clear that the Prime Minister said they were not interested in information and editorial policy, but rather in sound financing of the house in financial terms. Amendments and additions to this law do not speak either of the Zs about any changes in this regard but only about the choice of the body. That was the mistake of an esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11573	Thank you. The next correction to the incorrect quote, MP Josip Djakic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11574	Mr. Vice President, it's an incorrect assumption that Zoran Spreitz has received for no reason what the Program Council has sent him. It is true that Zoran Sprajc has come forward as editor of Dnevnik since 18 December 2011 in order to deal with the Programme Council, it is true. You forgot that. And that Zoran Spreitz also made one no-drink move towards the victim of Vukovar when he said if the tragedy could have been less. Vukovar has given everything for the defence of Croatia, which Croatia has given for the defence of Vukovar. That's the point of the problem that Zoran Spreitz has caused.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11575	Thank you. And last correction, fellow MP Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11576	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Namely, counterpart Baranovic lists him, and I correct him in this, about all the evils the HDZ government and HDZ inflicted on him and in what he proved to be in a bad light. So I'm correcting it's just HDZ, but it's also SDP, starting with Komadin..., Ferdelia, Ferenchkat, Holly, Jadovno,..., etc. Your Kukuriku coalition has almost listed such things as HDZ in six months' time. So that's all I'm correcting. And you, as psychic Milan, are now predicting that we will watch how beautiful television and beautiful it would be if you were to enforce your law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11577	Thank you. However, I can conclude that you haven't corrected anything. Thank you. And final on behalf of the HDSSB club for five minutes, counterpart Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11578	The debate takes place in the European Parliament by 11th, therefore nothing unusual for me. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with an assistant. When we watch "TV Calendar", and I look at it every morning as one of the most interesting shows on Croatian television, African, Asian and South American states are often mentioned very often in which the coup was carried out in some time. How's the coup going? First the military, the generals, then the police and the last TV. It's a coup and this is a mini coup. However hard that sounds, this is a mini or a silent coup. Because the ruling coalition takes over Croatia's television, the election of the editor-in-chief, that is, what is already called the director and all editors, clearly in the pyramid created by the election from the Croatian Parliament, therefore from the ruling majority, the pyramid of governance is being initiated through the Supervisory Board, the Programme Council, which again elects the majority of the Croatian Parliament, and then clearly the principal director, and he chooses the editors-in-chief. The pyramids are completely clear, completely clear. Busy Croatian television, the most powerful media, one image is worth more than a thousand words and it is clear that not only before elections but also in ordinary life, in everyday life television is the most powerful medium. It's completely safe and completely evidenceable. What does that mean? We have received promises here and a moment ago that when this happens and takes over we will see how beautifully managed Croatian television, how it will be wonderful and beautiful, and they do not believe that the 2/3 majority, therefore part of the opposition, would be qualified to give its opinion too, so that we can agree with some consensus on it because television is public, not television, or rather write this final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Humanization of Kukuriku Radio Television. That would be a real and appropriate name. This is what it is like in 6 months to take over television without supplementing the Programme Council on purpose, it is like the early works of Karl Marx, and it was made by a film by one Želimir Žilnik, a Slovenian director who was then abandoned or banned in Yugoslavia because the poster for the film... was very uncomfortable, mildly said, because it depicted something that could not be shown, it was not very nice to show. And we seniors remember that, and you're crying for that movie. So it is clear and more than clear that the editor-in-chief-in-chief will choose in fact the way in which we present and informative programs and fun and all that follows, without being able to influence that part of the citizens whose representatives we are from the opposition. It's from this pyramid of rule and choice, and then rule over HRT, which is the most powerful medium. I'm talking about television here, but there's a radio that nobody's said anything about today except for my colleague Mesic, but who's great. Today, Croatian radio is excellent radio, heard and respected by the profession, but also by the citizens. And I listen neatly to the chronicle of the day at three o'clock and at five o'clock and I primarily informatively, but he's rich and fun program. Which is why, if we listened to the quotes from Beus Richembergh, from Stazic, who only a year ago said it was an excellent law. The fact that the situation is bad, I do not claim that it is a good situation on television, but we do it in another way, not by changing the law to which we will give all powers, in fact good morning Prime Minister, so will welcome or healthy Prime Minister, it may be so announced on Croatian television when such a situation happens on 13th, unfortunately Friday and 13th, one black, we will also get this gentleman who will most likely be named on 13th Friday, 13th July, maybe July by someone.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11579	Time, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11580	So, fast and effective action, early works to the Kukuriku coalition so within six months take over television and that's it again, one part goes military, the police go, TV goes. That's what these two are already in some way and... On behalf of the President of the Republic [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Itd. It's already there. [[Intruder Basinić: Time.]] Just more TV left. And this is where television is taken over. It's a mini coup. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11581	Thank you. We have three corrections to an incorrect quote. The first one was Damir Mateljan. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11582	Of course, I am correcting Mr. Grubisic's incorrect claim that this is a mini move of a coup, because by that logic, things are probably then taking over by the coalition also a coup. This law, whatever it may be, has the legitimacy of the Parliament. Therefore, talking about the coup is ugly at least said.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11583	Thank you. The next amendment came from MP Petar Baranovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11584	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, there should be no visible Milan so as to see the absolute inaccuracy and failure of the alleged representative Grubisic, who found this to be some kind of mini coup. It seems to me that he still does not realize that we live in a parliamentary democracy in which citizens choose their representatives in which there is a parliament in which the decisions of the majority are governed by laws which are mandatory for all. They are adopted on the basis of the Constitution. That this is a parliamentary democracy, but this is not Guatemala. Why and why so much obsession with blows and these procedures that in less democratic states know to be present I really don't understand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11585	Thank you. And last correction by MP Jasen Mesic. Here's my colleague Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11586	Namely, an esteemed colleague, Grubisic, said that I was the only one who mentioned the Croatian Radio but was also mentioned by the chairman of the Media Committee. So I'm correcting Croatian radio is really great in all kinds of programs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11587	Thank you, too. This is what we've exhausted the list of people reported. And I call on Minister Andrej Zlatar Violic for final address. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11588	Thank you, Mr. President, honourable MPs and respected MPs. At first, someone pointed out that the ministry was not actually defending this Law but that it was more of an advocate. The job of the ministry's representative is to explain, not to pollemize. For that reason, I will refrain from all the comments and possible answers that would have a polemic tone. I'm going to try once more very summed up the key points that weren't exactly discussed here. The first one is a copy of the National Journal of December 2010 where this law takes effect on the day of its publication in the National Journal. I can see that this practice isn't unusual even when it wasn't in a hurry and there wasn't any panic. Secondly, the law was passed in 2010 after 7 years of continued behaviour by HDZ authorities under a continuous team at the Ministry of Honored Former Minister God Bishop. In these seven years, as in the previous 12, 13, no media policy has been adopted in Croatia and even less media strategy. Although this law was passed without a media strategy, which is the whole of the 2010 law that regulates all the parts you mentioned and parts of the acquis, it concerns the way support is regulated in the form of a subscription, it concerns commercial competitiveness, relations on the market, it concerns all programme orientations. If the law was passed, after 7 years of opportunity without any media strategy then really objecting to what changes and additions are related only in the way of management were adopted after 6 months of government behaviour I really don't think it's correct. But perhaps the word is not needed at all in this presentation. The second thing I want to say is that I am calling for the record, so which is unconfirmed, is that I will ask for a stenogram from the session from which it will be visible that I am, as I pointed out in the short lines, because time has been limited and the bad and good comments that the European Commission has made. But since they are not binding and not binding, they are recommendations, so these remarks, of course, have been misused here as a fact that I said that the Commission is agreeing. I didn't use that word. As for public debates and issues of shortness and length. In January, round tables began on the problem and problems accumulated in the media and especially on Croatian radio. They were large numbers from January to 5 months. They took part, listened in part, attended part of it, so not involving in the work of civilian associations representatives of the ministry. And also many hours spent in consultations with union representatives, journalists' unions and other trade unions representing or professional associations representing stakeholders when it comes to the Law on Croatian Television. This is why we have conducted extensive consultations and participated in public debates organised by civil society for 4 months. This is why civil society obviously had no need to in the period from 18.5. when the bill was published on the Ministry's pages did not encourage any civil society, no expert association to the HHO which reported yesterday to organise a public debate. From 18.5 to today, it's been 10 days, and I have to say, it's been almost seven weeks. Enough time for all forms of public debate. As for the comments that came to the web in the public debate, I must say that much of these comments went beyond the reach that concerns these changes and complements. So it was about painful points that were painful points for this society. The question of subscription, the height of the subscription program, everything these changes and additions haven't entered at all. And these issues, of course, remain open, remain open to both the media strategy and the possible debate on the whole of the law. But I repeat really these changes and additions did not in any way try to enter or change what the 2010 law has expressed and underlined as a public function of HRT. So I think the charges are completely inappropriate that way. There was also a comment that we hadn't adopted the amendments. As far as I know the practice of working, the amendments were dedicated today on the day of the second reading. There was no time to adopt them. The amendment will be made Friday morning, if that's how it goes in the parliamentary procedure. Or another day. However, I must say how many amendments I have now reviewed, in these amendments there is one serious amendment coming out of the lines of opposition where it is proposed that television be run by a three-member administration, and that the administration be voted on how? Most of the MPs, not two-thirds. Well, then I really don't know what he's playing with comments, suggestions, and ultimately in writing with amendments. The goal was quite clear, to separate three bodies with powers. Three bodies and three levels that existed and boredom, and we didn't go into changing the structure but to sharing powers. Civil society is not excluded because all civil society and now have opportunities to enter and be part of the Programme Council. There's nothing to stop them from doing that. For the members of the Programme Council as well as the Director, they have been raised in relation to the previous law of this very professional norm. In fact, we are looking for knowledge of media legislation and experience in media work simply because we believe that television is not one of the institutions or companies among thousands of companies that exist, but it is a public television and a specific institution of public interest for the Republic of Croatia. I can only tell you in the end that these amendments will really be reviewed, read, see how different they are and how well they correct the existing law. It has already been said today that a standard of 5 to 10 years will rise, and we find that absolutely acceptable. And in that sense, nothing, but absolutely no danger exists from these changes and additions. It was not possible to go into further implementation of the existing law. It may have been the best written law, but the measure of quality of the law is unfortunately measured by its implementation. So when the law says and writes that the choice of people in the Programme Council is still quotad by the attitude and opposition ratio, I don't know what instruments we couldn't measure today which people in the Programme Council today belong to foreign positions or foreign opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11589	Thank you, Madam Minister. We have two corrections to the incorrect allegations of your exposure. Davor Ivo Stier, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11590	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, you mentioned the minutes of the Media Committee, which is, in fact, the conclusion of that committee and, of course, they wrote that conclusion of Parliament's professional service. So if they were deceived, obviously they didn't get full information. You could and had to specify at that meeting of the Committee, which is all of the European Commission's remarks. It was also a question of whether there were any. You didn't list them. You could and you had to do it. You didn't list them.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11591	Thank you. And a correction by Josip Djakic, please welcome your colleague. What are you correcting?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11592	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It is incorrect that the minister states that associations and civil society have seats in the Programme Council. They don't have it right now, that's incorrect. You didn't let a tender be opened for them and now they don't have the opportunity to be on the Program Council.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11593	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I'd like to thank the minister and her associate. We will continue tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Public Collection, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 58. Have a good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11594	Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Radio Television, CZ No. 98. The debate, the text of the law is closed. The proposal for an amendment is divided on the bench. I'd like to make a statement on the amendments. I ask the Prime Minister's representative, Your Honor, to step out. You've got it in front of you. Thank you very much. We can go. First amendment of the HDZ representative club to Article 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11595	The amendment shall not be accepted for the reason that the intensities of this amendment for the administration of television remain the governing body without introducing the Director-General.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11596	Thank you very much. Representative of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11597	Thank you. We are not satisfied with such an explanation because a complex and large system like Croatian RadioTelevision, it would be better to have a multi-member just as many public companies have, not that all power is concentrated in the hands of one person, because the bang has shown that the public constitution of a multi-member administration can perform more quality and objective handling. Therefore, I request a statement on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11598	I ask that we make a statement about an amendment that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much, I'm sure he didn't get the necessary majority. We are going to the second amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club to Article 3?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11599	The amendment of the HDZ Club in Article 3 is deleted as the amendment also refers to the role of management to be managed, not the introduction of the Director-General's office. And for the same reason, the government does not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11600	Representative of the club respected representative Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11601	We do not accept such an explanation, namely the intensity of the amendment was that according to the first amendment we proposed to return the administration, a multi-member administration that would manage HRT, not that all power is concentrated in the hands of one person who will be elected to the majority of parliament, especially as this person will have a crucial decision when picking up the editors-in-chiefs-in-chief on HRT. I therefore request a statement on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11602	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to come forward with an amendment number two that the government does not accept. Who's in? I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to Amendment 3. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area. Please explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11603	The amendment of the HDZ Club is also an article which is replaced by the Director-General for the reasons set out so far, because the urgency of the proposal and the amendment of the law to introduce the Director-General. For these same reasons, the amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11604	Representative of the HDZ Club, a respected representative of Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11605	Of course we don't accept this argument. The intensity of all the amendments that have been proposed so far has just been to try these amendments and additions to the Law on HRT if nothing else is to form a body of several members that would lead to the management of HRT and not to give power and management and influence to the choice of editors and influence on the programme is concentrated in the hands of one person. I therefore ask for a statement on this amendment as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11606	Thank you very much. I'd like to make a statement on Amendment number three that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We move to Amendment 4 of the HDZ Representatives Club. Your Honors Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11607	It is an amendment relating to Article 5 and lists the HRT authorities where the Governance Board of the HRT Supervisory Board is re-emerged. For the reasons set out so far, the HRT administration cannot be listed in HRT bodies while the Supervisory Board and the programme of course are. For these reasons, the amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11608	Thank you very much. Representative of the HDZ Club, a respected representative of Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11609	We don't accept this argument. This amendment was just designed to propose the HRT administration in this Article 5 and to continue to formulate exactly the powers we would like for both the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council in order to really deal with the programme, to control the programme in particular that part of the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the HRT which is currently not respected in accordance with the applicable law which is in force and that the HRT administration takes over that part of the financial management and that further decisions should be made by a two-thirds majority, which would guarantee the quality of decisions taken, rather than the concentration of power in the hands of one person who chooses editors.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11610	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment number 4 of the HDZ Representatives Club to Article 5 which the Government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We move on to Amendment 5 of the HDZ Representatives Club to Article 6. I'm asking the Minister to plead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11611	Amendment No 5 also refers to the function of the Director-General. The proposal for an amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives states that HRT is managed by HRT in accordance with this law and the Statute of the HRT, given the intensity and basis of the law that HRT is managed by the Director-General, the amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11612	Thank you very much. Representative of the HDZ Club, a respected representative of Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11613	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, we are not satisfied with the explanation. It is the same set of amendments that have been proposed for the reason that we believe that such a law as the European Commission has assessed will be worse than the law currently in force by political consensus in this House. We ask for a statement on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11614	Thank you very much. I would like to make a statement on Amendment 5 of the HDZ Representatives Club that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm realizing he didn't get the necessary majority. Moving to Amendment 6 has been withdrawn. Amendment number 7. The Honorable Minister, the Club of HNS Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11615	The amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HNS refers to change. It's about the conditions for the selection of the principal director. 5 years of work experience of management of business systems is replaced by the basis of public debate and the European Commission's proposal, with the words 10 years of experience in responsible media and other business systems. The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11616	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the bill. Amendment number 8 of the HDZ Representatives Club. I'd like you to come forward with an honorary minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11617	Amendment number 8 of the HDZ Representatives Club regulates the choice of the president of the administration, the conditions for the election of members of the administration, the position of members of the administration and so on. In view of the fact that there is no administration in the law itself, the function of the Chief Director of the Amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11618	Representative of the HDZ Representatives Club, respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11619	Dear Mr. Chairman, we are not pleased with the proposal's reasoning because here is a clear indication of what candidates for the president of the administration and members of the administration should have. Since new amendments to the HRT Act introduce something called Directorateship, and under the new proposal of the Law, the Director-General will be entitled to choose his own deputy is not specified in the draft law by any criteria other than that he will be from the Directorate. We believe that the proposed formulation of the existing law is much better and therefore we ask for a statement on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11620	Thank you very much. By raising our hands, please state who is for amendment number 8 of the HDZ Representatives Club on Article 8 of which the Government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We move on to Amendment 9 of the HDZ Representatives Club to Article 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11621	The amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club relating to Article 9 speaks about the powers of the HRT administration. As no amendment exists in the final proposal to amend and supplement the Law on HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11622	Thank you very much. Representative of the HDZ Club, respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11623	We are not pleased, Mr. Chairman, with this argument, so we have proposed an amendment. I particularly point out that in this amendment we have proposed both how and how editors are appointed and resolved, how they are elected, especially here we are bound by the Statute of the HRT. We believe that this formulation is much better proposed in the amendment than in the new proposed law, and also on the basis of the opinion or recommendation of the European Commission which we have had the opportunity to see in... The Croatian Parliament. Therefore, we ask for a statement on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11624	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment number 9 of the HDZ Representatives Club that the government does not accept. Who's in? I'm realizing he didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much. We move to Amendment 10 of the HDZ Representatives Club. I'm asking the Minister to come forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11625	In amendment number 10, the HDZ Representatives Club proposes to delete Article 10, which introduces the Governing Board by law, so the amendment is to delete the Directorate-General made up of the Director-General and the Director-General of Construction Units. The amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11626	Thank you very much. A respected representative of the HDZ club, representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11627	We are not satisfied with this explanation, Mr. Chairman, because at the same time as we abolish the administration of a public institution such as HRT we are introducing a body that is actually a college of directors, and it is called the directorate of the HRT which will actually be elected directly from the principal director who will appoint his deputy from that directorship. Nowhere has it been specified under which conditions, on which deadline, we are therefore asking for a statement on this amendment because the practical directorship is a parathiel or, as we consider, the College of Directors.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11628	Thank you very much. I would like to make it clear about Amendment 10 of the HDZ Representatives Club to Article 10 that the Government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We move to Amendment 11 of the Committee on Information, Information and Media on Article 14. You may come forward with an honorary minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11629	The Committee on Information, Information and Media suggests that Article 14 of the final proposal puts it: "if the candidate did not propose himself a statement that he accepts the candidacy" is deleted. It is a tautology in this article that repeats the same obligation twice, and this amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11630	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the bill. Please amend number 12 of the Legislative Committee to Article 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11631	The Legislative Committee in Article 14 suggests that...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11632	You can only make your point. Do you accept or...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11633	It's acceptable, yes, this one before.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11634	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. Amendment No 13 of the HDZ Representatives Club to Article 18 You can plead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11635	It's unacceptable. In this article, the Croatian Supervisory Board of the HRT shall adopt in this respect, with the prior consent of the Programme Council. It shall not be accepted because the powers of the Programme Council are described in other ways, and the Statute shall, according to the new proposal, be adopted by the Supervisory Board on a proposal from the Director-General. It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11636	Thank you very much. Dear Mesic, representative of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11637	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. We're not satisfied with this kind of explanation. So, when the director-in-chief of the new proposal, i.e. amendments and additions to the HRT Act, has so much power and has a crucial decision in selecting the editor-in-chiefs and controlling and programming and business, I think it is really too high to make statutes on its proposal as well. And we think it would be much better to agree to this proposed statute that brings the Supervisory Board, and confirms the Croatian Parliament gives consent to the programme council, which is very important because we are all willing to have a quality program on HRT that would also meet the needs of public television and, of course, be in line with the contract between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and HRT. Therefore, I request a statement on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11638	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment number 13 of the HDZ Representative Club to Article 18 which the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We move to Amendment 14 of the HDZ Representatives Club on Article 19. Please plead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11639	Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club, which refers to Article 19 again mentions the management of HRT and the president of HRT administration. For the reasons that these bodies do not exist in law, an amendment shall not be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11640	Thank you very much. I'd like a representative of the HDZ Club of Honored Representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11641	Mr. Chairman, we are not satisfied with this reasoning. Already, on HRT these days, there is a hyper panic state, nothing more is known on television, all processes have been practically stopped, and in some ways this provision we wanted the Statute of the HRT to be adopted so that this institution could begin to function in an adequate manner and we are asking for a statement on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11642	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment number 14 of the HDZ Representative Club to Article 19 which the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We move to Amendment 15 of the Legislative Committee. I'm asking the Honorable Minister to come forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11643	The Committee on Legislatives suggests that Article 20(4), Article 21 of the previous wording should be deleted. The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11644	Sustained. It becomes an integral part of the bill. Amendment number 16 of the HNS Representatives Club. Please state if you accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11645	The amendment of the Club of Representatives of the HNS, which again mentions the transition from 5 to 10 years of work experience, is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11646	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the bill. And finally, Amendment 17 of the HDZ Representatives Club. Please plead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11647	The amendment of the Club of Representatives in Article 22 suggests that the date of entry into force of this law should become the temporary administration of the HRT. For the reasons that temporary solutions are solved in another way and that the administration does not exist, the amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11648	Thank you very much. I ask the representative of the HDZ Club to come forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11649	Mr. Chairman, we do not accept such an explanation because the intensity of this amendment was to shorten one step on the decision-making of the change in the management of HRT and given that certain short deadlines for the operation of the temporary administration or v.d. Director-General. We believe that if this amendment was adopted it would be much more practical, more operational, and that the processes on Croatia's broadcasting could take place more functionally in this period until the elections, until the selection of the principal director and other Croatian broadcasters. Therefore, I request a statement on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-03-0.u11650	I would like to make a statement about the amendment of the HDZ Club that the Government of the Republic does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. I ask that by raising my hand, we declare ourselves who is for the bill and the amendments that have been accepted. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? Thank you very much. You can give the result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes, 80 for, 35 against and 3 abstentions, the Law amending and supplementing the Croatian Radio Television Act was adopted in the text, as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted.
