ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u24977	Good morning, colleagues and colleagues. We were even in the assembly until a moment ago. We move to - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Judicial Council, first reading, P.Z. No. 211 The proposed law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. When adopting this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply in accordance with Articles 144 to 150. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. The opening statement will also be given by Justice Minister Mr Orsat Milenic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u24978	Dear ladies and gentlemen, before you there is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Judgment Council, it's actually a continuation of everything we've been through yesterday. What is most important of the amendments to this law is this, in one part it is in line with the requirements of monitoring, so this concerns the standard of DSV members, what we consider to be very important, and this is the next more precisely defining the concept of redesigning the court which will directly affect the mobility of judges and how they can be moved from one court to another when the number of seats is reduced. At the same time, this move will now be more transparent than so far because it will also be published on websites, a kind of competition will be announced for free seats in courts where it means opening the need, judges will be able to compete with their lines, a list will be created and thus will be determined who will be transferred. We think this is very important because everything we said yesterday is necessary for us to at least get close to standards so that everyone can start doing things as uniformly as possible. We have a lot of courts where we have a lot of cases, and we have those with fewer cases. Next year, as I said, we have a reshuffle ahead of us on the management of the courts. This is one of the preparations for that. So, when we do that, it's going to be done by these rules. What we said yesterday actually happened at the ZPP and the Court Act, so the question has been raised, all of these new deadlines that we're putting in place, how will the citizens achieve them? Then we say we make a commitment and there's a commitment and there's a course of action in order to take things and by urgency. That's what we introduced. Now we're introducing it here, and precisely as a stern act. So what is prescribed as an obligation in the Law on Courts is now prescribed here as a stupendous act, so a tool is given to sanction such conduct, i.e. failure. Also, a tight procedure itself comes to an increasing number of tighter procedures. Yesterday I said I was glad that it saddened me to have them at all, but I am glad that the system recognizes such excesses and that it deals with them and that our judicial inspection here makes a great contribution. So in order to make this tighter procedure more effective, we return to an older solution that was good and good, it means that the special Council will actually establish all the facts, so three people, three members, not the entire DSV. The entire DSV will make a decision on that. It'll speed up the process, simplify them, and it'll just go faster. We are introducing a new institute that we have noticed is necessary, which is that the President of the Court and we are also planning the DSV in a strict procedure will be able to ask for the judge to undergo a medical examination, i.e. a medical evaluation. We saw that as one flaw. We haven't had any rules yet, but there's really no reason to be different from the deviation from other employees. So that's one we consider a very important thing. Also, in the process of resolving the President of the Courts, it will be much simpler. It is currently theoretically and practically guided by the provisions of the CAP, which is completely unnecessary. We have a situation here where someone works well or doesn't do well. DSV discreetly appoints him and there is no need for you to then, after discretional appointment, you have one complicated procedure that can take a very long time. So it'll be simplified. One more thing is that yesterday we talked about these relations in general and in establishing responsibility especially for the President of the Courts one of the things that is being introduced here is that in the appointment of the President of the Courts they will have to give their work programme, that this programme will be given the opinion of the Supreme Court, but will also be given by the Ministry of Justice. Because that program belongs to management. It is not a program that will be tried in some case, but it is a program that will be managed by the court, and that is what citizens expect of us. So that's one element that unfortunately never existed until now but that we're now introducing. I'm saying it's within that constitutional provision that the presidents are elected by the DSV on their own. However, we also think that it should be introduced and that it is a good thing to introduce it means that the Ministry of Justice is also giving its opinion on the programme. The program must contain everything that matters, which is important for the citizens. From how old items will be solved to how they will be managed at all, how schedules will be done, etc. So it's short, it's changes. He's part of this package we discussed yesterday. So, primarily the Law on Courts, but it also relies on all these many laws that change certain things, which introduce more discipline in the proceedings and then require greater discipline from the judges themselves. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u24979	Thank you, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We're moving on to a debate. I'm opening a debate. First they're at work clubs. SDP club and colleagues Vesna Fabijačić-Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u24980	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Judicial Council. The Law on the State Judicial Council adopted in 2010 was a significant step in democratisation of the judicial authority. Of course, this was the case in the process of meeting the conditions for closing Chapter 23 when it is said in a simplistic way that the principle that judges are the ones who choose, improve and punish judges. The judiciary thus acquired legislative immunity from the influence of the executive authority. The two amendments to the Law on the State Judicial Council during 2011 were also followed by the fulfilment of the conditions for the closure of Chapter 23. The first amendment in 2011 resolved the competent decision on the immunity of a judge, the incompatibility in the conduct of the actions of a member of the State Judicial Council in cases where candidates or judges are relatives, spouses in relation to fosterers or similar to those of the candidate's assessment in order to ensure a quality choice. Therefore, these first changes were in the wake of strengthening the independence of the judicial authority, preventing the possibility of conflict of interest and opening the preconditions for the choice to be of quality. The second amendments to the Law on the State Judicial Council were also the reason for meeting the conditions for the closure of Chapter 23 and went in the direction of rationalisation of the case and achieved the possibility of a provisional schedule of judges from one court to another when there is a need for increased inflow of cases. This third amendment of the Law on the State Judicial Council is in line with the obligations of the Republic of Croatia in the process of monitoring the implementation of its obligations after the provisional closure of Chapter 23. In order to carry out the duties of the President of the State Judicial Council or of a member of the State Judicial Council, a legislative framework is now being created to reduce the scope of their judicial duties. We consider this a proper approach because we would be in an unequal position with our fellow judges if we had an equal range of performing a judicial duty. The reduction of the duties of the President of the State Judicial Council by 75% and the 50% balance between the responsible and extensive duties of the President of the State Judicial Council or a member of the State Judicial Council and their judicial duties. We also believe that these amendments lead to greater transparency in the process of relocating judges and electing judges, resolving cases in order to be accepted in court, as it has been resolved in the Law in courts, will satisfy the practice that the old cases are in the drawer and are not resolved, and that the judges of statistics by choosing their own order in solving these cases. The introduction of a newspaper that, in the event of a suspicion of permanent loss of ability to conduct a judicial duty, the judge is obliged to submit a medical examination is certainly on the trail of a more high-quality trial. And as we could hear from the minister next year, further changes and regulations are waiting for us regarding the reshuffle of the courts. What we appeal to, and what we think should be dealt with in a different way in the law, are certainly the property cards of the judges. We're all on the same track, we're all talking about zero tolerance to corruption, transparency, we agree that both executive and representative power, and I think that's how it should be in the judicial authority as much transparency as possible, and the greater transparency we are getting closer to that goal of any degree of corruption or conflict of interest being present. We therefore believe that the property cards of the judges should be as transparent as those of the executive and representative authorities, so we urge you to keep an eye on this in the following changes. And that he's finally estimating. All these amendments and additions are certainly necessary for the State Judicial Council to be an independent and independent body ensuring the independence and independence of the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia. and therefore the SDP club will support these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u24981	Thank you very much. It's the HDZ Club and colleague Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u24982	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I would like to say right away, something that colleague Fabiancic spoke about the role of the State Judicial Council, among other things, and about the EU and our club's accession, also states that the State Judiciary Council has in every respect met expectations in that part and that it has absolutely contributed to meeting the obligations of the Republic of Croatia to join the EU and will support the adoption of this law by the HDZ Club. What we wanted to say in principle in this debate, given that it is the first reading, we might warn of two important things that this law on amendments and additions says. One speaks of the fact that the State Judiciary Council, in its jurisdiction, can score candidates for certain judicial posts and that during the whole process of beating these candidates at the talks and personal insight if you want to give each candidate a maximum of 20 points. I would say that the practice of the State Judiciary Council has shown that these 20 points, here and in the press, have been following some of the candidates' objections, often 20 points cannot reflect the true state of affairs, or the quality of a particular candidate, because they are already coming to talk to a certain number of points that have been obtained according to the established methodology, and thus these points have already been placed at the highest or lowest, depending on the place, for selecting a judge of a particular court. In particular, this means that presidents, especially smaller courts, are generally coming to the most points and de facto consume that small number of advertised vacancys for judges, and that, often, judges who actually do the most in the court's work by statistics tend to make decisions in the most complex cases and make judgments, that often they cannot satisfy the methodology at all by the existing methodology in such a way as to be placed in the highest places and thus apply, i.e. with general certainty in those places. The second thing that can also be seen in the practice of current ads for vacant places is the fact that from other parts of the judiciary, the most common candidates are so badly scored that I don't even know what number of points in the conversation they can't compete at all in the court seats. That is why we propose, and we believe that there is time in two law readings that the proposer once again, it is article 54 and 55 that we do not go into detail, think about it, given the fact that the State Judiciary Council is the only body that will bear full responsibility for the appointment of each individual judge has this instrument of giving a certain number of points, it seems to me that perhaps more points than it is doing now and that perhaps it can be more qualitatively behind its decision to appoint each individual judge. What would be the number of points, here only for those who do not follow, is the maximum number of points 150 by other judges' activities, and then during the discussion of their programme for the President of the Court or for a particular judicial duty you can get up to 20 points which are again calculated in a special way by all members of the State Judicial Council. The second perhaps technical remark, when the ministry had already found it necessary and this law had to be regulated and given the amendments to the Law on Administrative Disputes, and then on administrative courts, administrative trials, in certain provisions such as the Commission for the appointment of judges and candidate election committees, is being amended and the administrative court is now changing in a way that becomes a High Administrative Court. This has been done in Article 9. In the transitional and final provisions, it is said that the role of the Administrative Court is assumed by the High Court of Commerce, but given the nomotechnics, if it has already been amended everywhere, we propose that, in Article 7(2) where it is mentioned about those who appoint members of the commission, change the term and, instead of the Administrative Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia, state that it is the Supreme Administrative Court. Everything else, so we are aware of the fact that the methodology is made by the State Judiciary Council, we are aware of the fact that, in some way, the exact data on the number of cases solved must be the basis for a decision on the value of each individual candidate for a particular place, but I believe that with a better score schedule or points for each candidate we will get the real selection of the best possible candidates for those places. And what I believe the others will notice, a mandate which could not now be twice the members of the State Judiciary Council now transforms into a new possibility so that you can be eight years in a row of a member of the State Judiciary Council. The question is, I believe that others will talk about it, whether it guarantees the quality of the State Judiciary Council that we are looking for or that will already slowly create semi-professional members who will be further away from performing their judicial duties, and closer to one new position. So we think that maybe that solution isn't the happiest thing right now. As I said, the HDZ Club will support the adoption of this law, and I believe that even the promoter can take into account these remarks that we have made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u24983	Thank you very much. The next is the HDSSB club and counterpart Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u24984	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'm glad you're with us today, Mr. Minister. Here's when the doctor starts talking about law and justice, then it's really going to be the right thing to do. My contact is like a permanent court medical expert, so here's a chance to get in touch with judges and justice at least on that side. But what I was about to say is that the HDSSB club will support such a legal proposal for a number of reasons. I have also asked the Minister and the previous ministers on several occasions and, therefore, also here from this pay phone how much the state, how much the judiciary stands, the cost of dislocated litigation proceedings in the Republic of Croatia. So, in the dispute of two persons, in the case of two persons from Slavonski Brod, the court's decision is that the case is dislocated in Đakovo, Požeg, Zagreb even. Now, the parties, their lawyers and everyone else travel to Zagreb from Slavonski Brod for litigation. It is clearly much more expensive than if a judge were transferred from Zagreb to Slavonski Brod so that there would be no need for numerous parties to travel to Zagreb, because his journey as a single party is, therefore, far cheaper and stay in Slavonski Brod than to make dozens of people travel to dislocated trials in Đakovo, Požeg, Zagreb etc. due to the overcrowding of the Municipal Court cases in Slavonski Brod. So when I'm talking about the money spent for that purpose, then I have to say it's about tens of millions of kunas, and in the era we are the maximum savings of the state budget and the state treasury and everything else. That's one pair of freaks they'd say. Secondly, it is a number of damages caused by a violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. And this law will also contribute to reducing this figure. Here in the budget of the Republic of Croatia, it says that 26 million kuna has been allocated to these purposes in 2012. It is this year, and 21 million and more are foreseen for 2013, and 2014. 17 and a half million kuna. Therefore, with obvious tendency and thinking that this will be less and less, and this legislative proposal is also going in this direction to reduce this compensation to the parties due to infringement of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. For these two reasons, we are about to raise our hand, so for this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Judgment Council. Once a few years ago, the activities of the judges of the Municipal Courts were carried out by executive procedures, and then many of them very easily met their standard with only one signature on the executive as it is called paper, not law, request, or so on. And then he says, look how many cases I've solved or had cases because he's put a signature or a paraphras even with, so a paraphras with his signature on such objects. We know that well all those who have contact with the court. And now that those cases are out, so they're not in the courts anymore, it's something different now. What you pointed out to Mr. Minister last night when you came here today and today that the advantage in resolving disputes will be those cases where they threaten the possibility, therefore, of antiquity or trial within a reasonable period of time. That's very good, and we support it. With that I am not here when I look at the budget of the Republic of Croatia and I see a reduction in the judiciary of about 150 million kunas, and in the items concerning the training of judges, court practitioners as they are called counselors, whether they are young people who come, they are advisers to say savings and asparagus in those positions. It doesn't make me very happy, so then the Judicial Academy, which is also a very significant reduction in the budget of the Republic of Croatia in that segment. So, all the high-priced justice is a little cut off, your portfolio. But well, that's, you're the minister, so I guess you'll find out. But if we were to save with these decisions a little by little, so in the cost of a dislocated trial, except for the reduction of the costs due to violations of the right to trial within a reasonable period, then it would probably somehow be reported, that reduction in the budget and these costs. Other aspects of this legislative proposal were discussed by a colleague, Mlakar, who is really professional in this, and also a colleague before me from the SDP. I just wanted to look back on article 55a. which is referred to as candidates for judges in paragraph 3. reads as follows: "candidates can score up to 150 points from one or more written actions, and the candidate can score up to 20 points in oral conversation." And in the 7th list of championships as a sign of transparency and openness and there is nothing secret, there is no hiding says like this: "The list of championships is published on the Council's website and contains a total of points and points achieved by each of the criteria." It would be very transparent. The list is published, this one has 160th, that 145th, etc. And it's clear who was admitted. But it's not like that. It's not like that. I'll name the lawyer of one of Slavonski Brod who competed for Judge of the Municipal Court in Slavonski Brod. So, the private lawyer was also, when he was also on oral interview or interview, however we want to make an excellent impression there, because as a lawyer, he is often tried in all possible segments from criminal to civil rights, commercial rights, so man knows matter, works 20 years as a lawyer, but he did not pass the contest because some candidates had a maximum number of points or almost maximum from so-called. written stores. When he wanted to check and compare his written shop and other candidates, he was told he couldn't check. He can't check, it's none of his business. And what can a man do now? How can he prove my point of expertise, as he can claim and he claims it's more quality or subjective to his impression, but he really doesn't have the right to see the written actions of the other candidates. He can only look at his shop and where if he was wrong in his written store where he was wrong. But the written actions of the other candidates have no right to look at even though the party concerned is in the process. Here, so much for this transparency in decision making, so much for the written action and the points that are obtained in these written actions and these 20 points in the interview itself. And he said well to his colleague, Mlakar, that perhaps the relationship between the total number of points could be a little bit more rational, more overly and on the side of this oral conversation as it is said today in a Croatian interview, yes. There, thank you very much. And we will support regardless of these remarks we will support this legislative proposal in the sense in which I spoke in that first part, so the cost reduction due to a dislocated trial because now the State Judiciary Council will be able to dislocate the judges, not the litigation. And secondly, we will probably hope there will be fewer disputes over the violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u24985	Thank you. Notice, The delegation of the Croatian Parliament to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of the National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament will hold a session on Monday 10 December 2012 at 14:00 in the Chamber of John Mažuranić on the International Day of Human Rights on the subject "Status of Croatian cases before the European Court of Human Rights with a view to the rights of persons deprived of liberty" and invite all interested representatives to respond. Thank you very much. We're going to the next club. It is a club of Croatian Labour Laburists and colleagues Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u24986	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This is the last of this mini-set of judicial laws, and it seems to me that the minister in one rational way shows that he wants to introduce order where the order is most difficult to introduce and where it is most needed. in a court of law. According to the Croatian Labour Labour Party, this is a good law with good intensity and good solutions, and in any case we will support it. However, there is something to be said about the law, it may be good even though it goes in two readings, so we have time and opportunity not only to react to concrete articles but also to say something about the general meaning of the law, about some of the messages that are being sent to them and some of the general solutions that work. The problem in the judiciary, and whoever and everywhere else are primarily the people who work in that system. Their awareness, expertise, hard work and other characteristics depend on how the system works. The role of DSV in this is crucial. Namely, the DSV sets up judges and replaces them and disciplines them when necessary and performs these organisational tasks that are currently related to people working in the system. That discipline is sometimes necessary to prove the amount of charges for violation of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. We've all said that before, and yesterday we talked about it. But that is an important topic, it is something that Europe is most complaining about among other things, it is something that is found so much in the European Court of Human Rights and that is something that the Croatian state must finally pay when it is guilty and paid. And it's actually the judges who didn't do the job on time. The fact that judges are elected for life is what we agreed at one point and that's how the system works. Whether it's good or not is the subject of a very broad discussion that's not here right now. But the fact is that if it is so that the position of a judge is guaranteed in such a way there must be a body that can affect his career on his progress, finally and on his staying in the system if he really ecldently violates the rules of that system. It's supposed to be the State Judicial Council right now. This law changes a few aspects of functioning. The most important is the transfer of judges who should now go on the list of championships, so some objective criteria that include both the expertise and the results of the judge and positive and negative and finally his desire to move to another court, which is good. Elimination of the provision that a disciplinary violation of a judge is conduct contrary to the fundamental principles of the code of judicial ethics. This is something that was introduced in 2011 into the law and would now be removed because the phasing out of a case against a case against judges should take place according to the applicant identically to the fundamental principles of criminal proceedings, so a concrete act. A concrete act shall be discussed in a concrete way by specific rules and shall determine specific sanctions. And that's the office. However, if there is no ethics and no justice in the process of functioning the judge and assessing his work, then the whole thing is formalised in such a way that the role of the judge becomes the role of an officer who, by the precise provisions of the law, makes precise decisions and does not care much about justice. I think this clause on ethics and the code of judicial ethics should in some way remain in this law and that the violation of that ethics, and it exists, I think, defines that breaking that ethics should be a major violation for a judge. One of the things that this bill actually emphasizes is the obligation of judges to settle cases according to the order of arrival and urgency. I think it's an extremely important thing. I remember one example of him being here somewhere and mentioning one person from Rab who's had two procedures at the same time. One of the procedures of the master who cheated on her and took her money from the loan and where she was absolutely right and another executive procedure for the house she mortgaged on. This mortgage executive procedure was completed within the time limit. This second one still lasts after two years, two years. She's right. She has received an unlawful verdict and will get the procedure, it is a woman, but she will be given the procedure, meanwhile, without a home. And that procedure where the master cheated on the loan she took on that house doesn't mean anything to her anymore. Therefore, the priority of acting, the importance of acting, and the priority of acting in the order of application are the key thing to attaining the principle of justice. If justice is not done in time, if it is not done in such a way as to take care of other aspects of that person and that procedure, then it is not justice, then it is injustice. Article 7 refers to the procedure when the Supreme Court is required or wishes to enter a person who has no court practice prior to that. And a system is being developed that needs to be done and written. The work will be evaluated, examined in a similar way. The whole thing doesn't concern me a bit, of course, with this law, but the whole thing sounds kind of fantasizmagorical to me. How is it possible for the Supreme Court to enter the Supreme Judicial Body of the Republic of Croatia? It may be a naive attitude, but it reminds me of the opportunity that now a man comes to the university and says you know I know you very much and I need to be a regular professor. It can't become a regular professor, we've passed a law by which it can't become a regular professor, but it has to go through all these steps that are already going from a doctor to an extraordinary professor and something like that. The man here because of some of his merits I suppose political, I don't see what others might be suddenly becoming the Supreme Court judge. But this procedure is well-worked here, but I think in the whole situation in one perhaps a little quieter time, you should reconsider. A good provision of medical reasons, health reasons as a reason for a judge's resolution, has been introduced. That hasn't been possible so far. Of the many judges we have in Croatia, it is easy to assume by law that some of them are occasionally and sick and occasionally sick and thus unable to perform their duties. I guess every one of us knows a judge like that. Here's what two judges think of. People who just can't do this job because they're sick probably, I'm not a doctor to diagnose but suffer from some mental disorders. It's a good thing it's in law, and it's a good thing the judge can send a judge for such a medical examination that he can't do so far. The review was voluntary and these judges were generally and always refused such a review, because when a man is like that, then you can't explain to him that he's like that by definition. Article 16 of these amendments discusses the opinion of candidates for the President of the Court to be given by the High Court, the President of the Supreme Court and the Minister of Justice. They are obliged to give that opinion within 30 days so that a man could place himself as President of the Court. What if he doesn't? The law doesn't say anything about it. Is that true of the principle of administrative silence, that is, if any of these opinions did not come if it is assumed to be positive? Then you should, I think you should write it down to make the situation clear. Article 21 of the Transitional and Final Provisions speaks well, all proceedings pending before the Council will continue and be implemented in accordance with the provisions of the Law on the State Judicial Council, therefore the law does not go retroactively. A few days ago, we talked about the Law on Administrative Procedures, and inside we left one provision that goes retroactively. I mentioned it as the possibility of a future lawsuit or something. I think things like that should be avoided. It's well settled here, and all in all, I think the law, with small changes, can be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u24987	Thank you. Replica, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u24988	Dear fellow Vuljanic, for the first time all clubs are actually almost all clubs, I almost say because not all clubs discussed last night and this is a follow-up, unique in grade. This mini judicial reform is a great step forward. I must remind you now, when the government left then the minister of justice was deemed unprepared, however, it has now proved to be ready, that he worked in silence, that he has made one set of laws, or amendments to the laws that are welcomed by the assessments of all and opposition parties. Now with this set of laws, the amendments to the laws of the courts and judges have tools in their hands and I can't say that we are coughing for European laws. So far, that was my most drastic assessment, the courts are far below and these legal solutions we have and the practice of court is at the moment when we adopt this, I hope that we will adopt the laws, will be far more legal than practice. It is now up to us to discuss here, especially those proposals that we have proposed to the Minister that the Supreme Court president report to the Parliament and the nation on the state of the courts once a year. I think that, that Dom, the Croatian Parliament and the ministry are going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u24989	Replication response, Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u24990	Absolutely, this set of laws is not only necessary, it is necessary. The biggest problems of the Croatian state, this Europe also clearly and loudly showed us, finally and introduced Chapter 23 just for us to know what the situation in our judiciary is, everyone knows it, we know it too, it is necessary to implement this set of laws, to pass this set of laws, but it is necessary to change the practice. In the judiciary, the bad influence of politics has been seen long enough and strong enough to actually repel it to us about the forehead in a mass of examples and in a mass of situations. Right now the judiciary is the most, I'm convinced maybe paranoid, the judiciary is just the most politically devastated in the '90s and more than an economy. The factories were stolen, but a situation was created here to lose confidence in the system, to lose confidence in both justice and justice and justice. That's what the minister needs to change now in six months. I want luck.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u24991	We're continuing the debate. HNS club and counterpart Nada Turina-Đuric. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u24992	Dear Vice President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS will support the first reading of this Law on the State Judicial Council. We consider the proposal for amendments to this law to make very significant progress in the future functioning of our judiciary, especially in the most sensitive part, which concerns most of the amendments in this law, which is the choice of judges or the evaluation of their work. In some ways discipline is introduced, order is introduced, or a much higher standard of self-discipline within the system is determined which, in the event it is not executed, there are also certain sanctions. It's a very big shift. Unfortunately, the untouchability of the entire system has grown for years into the absolute incompetence of the entire system and these changes that are being introduced. I think it will significantly improve the situation in the coming period. Since we are, of course, witnessing daily that there are major problems in the system of provisions of these amendments should be a good instrument that will raise the quality level but of course the number of cases solved in the proceedings at our courts. I would also commend on behalf of the HNS Club, which I did yesterday, and the whole set of laws that have come in the last few days from the Justice Department plus the strategy that we're going to, maybe at the beginning, but here we'll probably talk about it next week in this assembly. They're certainly commendable. This is going to be, of course, a big exam for the whole system, because what's going to be a test, the real exam of all of this is an exercise. However, good preconditions have been created and we hope that the Ministry of Justice will have something to boast about in the coming year, two days of course with the effects of these packages of the Law on the Judiciary. Here again I say HNS will be happy to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u24993	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. First in debate, colleague Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u24994	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary with an associate. And I want to join those who welcome these amendments and additions to the law. I think it's another important step in system editing. First of all, I came forward for this debate so that I could use this time to point out once again and thank the members of the State Judicial Council at the head with the president who agreed to participate at the time when we were trying to close Chapter 23 to so on. the co-ordinations in the government, so where the representatives of the executive government and the judicial authorities sat at the same table together. So from the President of the Supreme Court, the State Judicial Council, the State Attorney's Council and many others certainly the Ministry of Justice. This was a good example of how regardless of the division of authorities in the Republic of Croatia, so on three pillars of government when it comes to the independence of course of the judiciary that should always be pointed out when it comes to the Croatian interests that we can work together because we all repeated that, of course, institutions such as DORH, institutions such as the State Judicial Council, the State Lawyer's Council are independent, but never independent of Croatia's interests, and Croatia's interest was to complete negotiations and enter the EU. So I think that the job that's in front of you and the fact that we're waiting for a new report in the spring, but also that a lot of jobs will actually just be said I would open July 1st next year. So this job is never going to stop. It's just a fact. So I think it's very good that you decided on two readings, not an emergency procedure. I believe that some of our remarks that are truly well-intentioned will be adopted and incorporated into the Final Bill. What I'd like to point out is what I'd like to remind you that we're changing the Constitution. and conditions for discussion. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Fellows and colleagues, please, that colleague has the opportunity to discuss.]] Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So, by amending the Constitution in 2010, which was actually voted by all parliamentary parties, the relevant parliamentary parties further strengthened the independence of both the State Judicial Council and the State Attorney's Council, and I believe that these amendments and additions to the Constitution allowed for the continuation of this work that is still before us today. Namely, I say hello, I'll say what I think is right and what I know especially. So, this possibility of moving judges. I particularly welcome that possibility of assessing the medical ability, or judges, or simply the state of the judges. I think that's good. This will in no way harm, nor will it affect the dignity of judges who must have. However, I think it will strengthen them, and in particular I would like to highlight the President of the Court's programme. So these certainly aren't ordinary judges. The President of the Court is also a kind of manager, a man who beats the rhythm, who sets out the rules and who ultimately oversees the work of judges and I think it is very good that anyone who wants to be the President of the Court has the strength and ability to present his programme in particular in that part that still slows us down and that will be important just when we become a member of the EU, which is a failure to resolve or resolve the remaining cases. So, I think, from July 1st next year, that number of pending cases actually have to be reduced from day to day, from month to month to really reasonable measure, because otherwise, if it didn't happen as a member of the EU, we'd have problems. What I do not agree with, and I ask the Ministers to reconsider, refers to this Ethics Code, so what this is built in, as my colleague Vuljanic said in 2011, which you now propose to remove, or delete. I think it would be good to leave it because ethics, ethical code, ethical principles actually are and must be a framework in which judges will work. So I suggest you take another look, I agree with the argument, but sometimes it's necessary to write some things further in the laws that determine actually, so I dare say the fate of the state. Namely, judges must work without the influence of politics. Politics must forever remove hands as it is sometimes popular to say paws from the judiciary, the work of courts independence of courts, politics, politicians, of course, those in power must neither judge nor choose, judges must not be afraid, judges must not be afraid, judges must not fear anyone, because in their hands there is ultimately success or failure to fight crime and fight corruption. Only completely independent, of course well-paid, well-educated judges can ultimately lead that whole process to what I suppose we are all really interested in because until the judge says the final word in the processes for the serious crimes of corruption and crime we can't really claim, but when they say their final word and when the educated competent, independent, brave and bold judges say that we must ultimately believe them. And finally, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I welcome what we've actually agreed on before, which is reducing the duties of the president, Mr. President, it's hard to talk about when I have to vote with the whole hall. Thank you very much. So, I welcome the principle that we have already agreed on, so reducing the exercise of judicial duties for the president of the DSV 75% and for the members of the council 50%. So with a request, Mr. Minister, that you only respect this one remark of mine, I thank you, and here I am going to support this amendment and the addition of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u24995	Thank you, too. And we have two replicas. The first is the replica and respected representative Sandra Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u24996	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here is my colleague Kosor, I agree in a large part with your debate, but I would like to point out one part of your debate where you spoke about reducing the number of cases left over because of recommendations, i.e. because of EU requirements. It is true that we have some criticism by the European Commission over the number of cases left behind, but we must not do this because of the European Commission and the EU but rather work to reduce the number of cases left behind because of ourselves, because of our justice system, or because of our citizens. We should have done this much sooner than we entered into negotiations with the EU and much sooner than we were under monitoring, and therefore we should be working on reducing the backlogs not only since 1.07, but we should have done it much sooner and later on because of ourselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u24997	And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u24998	I'm sorry, ma'am, if you misunderstood me, and probably because I didn't say we had to do it because of the pressure of the European Commission or the EU, absolutely not. I just reminded myself how good it was since we were unique in the negotiations and because we got this difficult Chapter 23, which we had to meet many standards and to open it up and shut it down. I said of course we did it for ourselves, but if we hadn't done it, we wouldn't have ended the negotiations. I just pointed out that our work even when we become a member of the EU will not stop. So, our job as you know at one point with a million and a half down to 800, 850 thousand objects. But it's my opinion that it's not enough. So that's what I'm talking about. We must never get tired of it, we must never stop watching, so I think as Parliament, that we can, the jobs of fundamental human rights, because the fundamental human right is that every person has a fair, quick, effective trial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u24999	Thank you, too. Next replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25000	Dear colleagues Kosor fully agrees with your findings or wishes. You said that politicians have to take their paws off the courts, they need to stop affecting the judges, and that simple politics should stop interfering in the trial process. And that should be emphasized every time. For what? Just because we know that the former prime ministers had a direct impact on the trial, setting up judges, we know that former Justice Minister Vesna Skare-Ozbolt had to leave because she disagreed with the prime minister who would be the judge of the County Court. We know that from the highest point of view, and there have been statements coming out in the media that have not been convincingly denied that politicians have affected the work of courts and court proceedings. However, judges are also required, so there are two sides and the judges agree to that. Yesterday we talked about the dignity of the judges, the judges have to fight for their dignity and independence. If the judge doesn't want to if he doesn't agree to the political game, he won't agree at any cost. Therefore, there are two sides, there are judges who agree to the political game and there are politicians who want to influence the work of the courts and the process itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25001	The reply to the replica is a respected representative of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25002	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I agree with you. What is the role of the Croatian Parliament is to keep the executive authorities doing everything... but, especially, to bring corruption in courts or judges to the least possible extent possible. We are unfortunately witnesses to all these examples that you have listed but we are witnesses of attempts to bribe judges and the highest cases we know of. Therefore, it is forever necessary to be careful, of course, because both ministers and presidents are governments and MPs and judges are just people.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25003	Thank you very much. We're going forward with an individual debate. Now it's an honorary representative, Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25004	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister. Given the great interest of the MPs on this subject and in time announced for the vote, I will try to be pragmatic but I must take advantage of the occasion. This is an important law given the speed at which we adopt this set of judicial laws, since we may not have had time and opportunity on the Justice Committee as a parent committee enough to come in in detail, and the need is because it is a first reading and it is time for us MPs to make comments that the promoter might also be able to show themselves to them, I will take advantage of this opportunity. So, first of all, I want to say that I'm going to support this law, all in general about the State Judiciary Council has already been said. Of course, his establishment and special law are all on the verge of a clearer and more transparent choice of judicial duty. What's particularly good about these changes is that it introduces a transparent way and criteria for the transfer of judges, as it has already been arranged for state lawyers. This is well-stimulated. It is also good that these amendments to the law clearly state that judges appointed for judicial duty until 31.12.2012 do not have to have a judicial school. So there could be a question in the implementation of what is the case in the case of the transfer or promotion of those judges who do not have a judicial school, and were appointed before that? A few things I would like to very specifically warn about, therefore, as far as this release is concerned from performing a judicial duty for the president and members of the State Judicial Council more in the past several years, there have been discussions whether or not it should be. I think that now, in agreement and in conversation with experts and the EU, which insists on empowering the State Judiciary Council as bodies that are transparently and impartially appointed by officials or judges of judicial officials, this position has come to be taken. And I don't doubt it, it's a good thing that we've seen how engaged both the members and the president of the State Judiciary Council are. What I am warning her of is that I may suggest to the Proposer that perhaps this statement to the judges elected at the State Judicial Council is diminishing the performance of the judicial duty. It does not diminish the performance of the judicial duty I would say is diminishing the obligation to perform the judicial duty under the framework criteria, so it is known that this refers to that so-called norm as we say but framework criteria. Maybe that could be more conveniently regulated. As far as Article 2 is concerned, I don't know if anyone's ever talked about it or if it's been noticed, so Article 2 is actually deleted from that ban twice in the joint appointment to the State Judiciary Council. I would like to warn you of compliance with the Law on the State's Attorney's Office and the State's Attorney's Council, because this provision on joint selection of the State's Attorney's Council stands in that second law. And I also ask the Proposer to consider this erasure of paragraph 2. The intensity of this was that the body as a body had a four-year mandate and that it was then always going to the body with a four-year term, and in the event of a change in individual mandates that they would last until the end of the body's term. That's how the position was taken when this law was passed. And I don't think that's bad. As regards this Article 9, which regulates Article 60a, the transfer of judges without consent in the event of the merger of courts or changes has so far been subject to changes in the internal structure of the court. It is okay for this to change other changes in the real local jurisdiction, but it is now proposed to say by decision on the basis of either the basis or the basis of the Justice Minister's decision. This logically relates to the Law on Courts, which says that the justice minister determines the number of judges, however, the minister of justice does not determine the number of judges because he remembers but has clearly some of what is good criteria, so according to framework criteria, so at least it should be. So far, it has been written in accordance with the framework criteria for the work of judges, and this is about changing the number of judges. Well, I think it would be good to keep the stipulation to say, according to the Justice Minister's decision, in accordance with this decision on framework criteria, that it is known that the justice minister is still making it on the basis of something. I would also like to draw attention to Article 62 of the Law, or Article 11 of the amendments, which discusses the strict responsibility of judges. It is good that that general provision was deleted on the code that is my view, but it is also said that if a failure to comply with a decision taken in the procedure on the protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, it is also a good injury. But here's the warning of a new one being introduced, it's good to introduce it, but it's like this, if the judge in solving the case significantly deviates from the order of their courtship, or does not care about urgency. This expression significantly opens up many possibilities because the question is who will determine when it's important and when it doesn't matter. I would rephrase it in a way to say that if the judge solves cases, if, without justifiable reason, he's deviating himself from the order, so if there's any reason to justify it, then it's not too tight, if there's no reason, or it doesn't matter, who's going to say 5 times, 8 pt, or 25 times important. I warn you, I warn that I think that I need to rephrase paragraph 4 of this article because the numbering in paragraph 1, the numbering has changed, so now you are not comfortable with the numbering referred to in paragraph 4. And just one more thing, the court president's resolution. It's okay that no such procedure is required because he still remains an official, so he remains a judge, only ceases to be the president of the court. Therefore, there is no need for procedure as for resolution. But I don't think it's a good idea to delete paragraph 7 of that article, and paragraph 7 speaks of the right to protection. Therefore, by deleting Article 7, which is that the President of the Court who is against the Council's decision on the resolution of the President of the Court has the right to initiate an administrative dispute. You erased that. Which now means that the DSV has absolutely no legal means, it's simply unconstitutional, and I don't think it could stay that way and that some legal means would have to be. And finally, I would also like to commend that you have completed the article 78 which gave power to the DSV, that is, the President of the Court, that the judge is required to undergo a medical examination. Given the appointment of judges for life, up to 70 years, since in practice there have been cases where it is evident that the judge cannot perform his duty without having the elements of strict responsibility, it is good that this provision is introduced into amendments and amendments to the law. Here I am asking the promoter to at least consider these remarks and to support this law in our first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25005	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the list of persons reported for a ten-minute hearing. I call upon the Minister of Justice, the Honorable Orsat Milenic, to the final word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25006	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear ladies and gentlemen. Just very briefly, a few accentes that have appeared. So, as far as this consecutive two appointments are concerned, we've now signed the constitutional provision, so as it says in the Constitution, it's now in law. It hasn't been harmonised so far. I agree, it needs to be harmonised in the DOV, the DOV law, it's going to be the turn. As for the ethics that were being set, it means why it is no longer a firm act as indicated. There's a first reason that the tensile acts by all criteria must be precisely determined, that's one. Under two, ethical behavior is assessed by the judicial councils involved in the evaluation of the judge's work, thus affecting his choice and progress. So through this is taken this ethical element in the right place, meaning among colleagues, not as a possible stupendous act. Because we've had a hard work, doing damage to the reputation of a court or a judicial duty, so it still exists, we haven't touched it, but we're moving this to where it belongs, these are ethical councils. It's a college thing, so we're moving it there. But I'm saying it directly affects the progress and the judge's assessment at all. One thing, there was a question about property cards, whether they were on the web or not. Of course, that's something to consider. There are and we've been thinking about it, we're going to think about it until the second reading, there's a reason for it, of course we need to guarantee the safety of judges not to be compromised through it, but some general data we don't see why we shouldn't be available because as we said transparency is always important and can only bring good. The next thing, the points on the interview, the question was also open. Some will say it's too much and this, some will say that through an interview then, without the criteria developed, it affects the list that was previously complex by objective criteria. We can agree to the spread of points, but then we should consider that interviews are transmitted via the web and everyone sees what's going on and what's going on at the interview. So we can do that, think about how to expand but then there has to be one additional criterion to see that it's transparent. So here, I thank you once again for your support, of course all the remarks will be taken into account and taken into account.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25007	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm concluding a debate on this bill. We'll vote a little later. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Judicial Council, first reading, P.Z. No. 211. The debate on the draft law is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion. First, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Judicial Council is hereby adopted. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 111 votes, we have reached the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25010	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity committee discussed at the 15th session held on 5 December 2012 the request of the attorney-in-chief of private prosecutor Elvis Mujačević of Lovran to grant authorisation for the continuation of criminal proceedings against Giovanni Sponza for the offence of the libel referred to in Article 200(1) and (2). Penalty law. Giovanni Sponza is a representative of the 7th meeting of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 76. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure shall have the immunity until the term of office has ceased. Without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against the same, it cannot be initiated or prosecuted. The mandate-immunity committee shall propose unanimously to the Croatian Assembly the decision-making, during the term of the parliamentary term of office, the authorisation to conduct criminal proceedings against Agent Giovanni Sponze on the private suit of Prosecutor Elvis Mujačević of Lovran for the criminal offence of slander in the case before the Municipality Court of Rovinj. Namely, in the case of a private prosecutor as well as in cases where the injured person, as a subsidiary prosecutor, enters the position of a state attorney because the lawyer has found that there is no basis for launching or conducting a criminal proceedings, the commission will propose to the Croatian Parliament a denial of the authorisation. The Commission's position is to establish the Institute of Immunity in order to protect the dignity of the duties and not to protect the representatives as an individual. The criminal proceedings may also be initiated after the end of the term of office since the statute of limitations does not run until there are reasonable reasons why the proceedings cannot be carried out.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25011	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a decision proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 117 votes for the proposed decision. We go straight to the first point, it is - Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on a request for authorisation to conduct criminal proceedings against Ivica Mandic, a representative at the Croatian Parliament Please president of the Mandate-Immunity Commission respected Gordan Sobol to submit a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25013	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. At the 16th session held on 14 December 2012, the mandate-immunity committee of the Croatian Parliament discussed the request of the municipal court in Nasice for the authorisation of the conduct of criminal proceedings against Ivica Mandic on grounds of reasonable suspicion that he committed a criminal offence against the authenticity of the document, the counterfeiting of the official document referred to in Article 312(1). Penalty law. Ivica Mandić is a representative of VII. Calls on the Croatian Parliament and has immunity until the end of the parliamentary term and without a decision of the Croatian Parliament cannot be initiated or a criminal procedure can be conducted. The mandate-immunity committee unanimously proposed to the Croatian Assembly of Decision: "Acquittal for the conduct of criminal proceedings against Ivica Mandic, at the request of the General Court in Nasice, of 29 November 2012 in Case...12/12-2, on grounds of reasonable doubt that he committed a criminal offence against the credibility of the documents, the counterfeiting of the official document referred to in Article 312(1). The Penal Code." Namely, the Mandate-Immunity Commission decided to grant authorisation for the conduct of criminal proceedings against Ivica Mandic, at the request of the municipal court, since the Municipal State Attorney's Office in Đakov, submitted an indictment against Ivica Mandic before the court in Djakov. The Commission took a principled position that, at the request of the State Attorney's Office as an independent and independent judicial body which is required to act against the perpetrators of criminal and other criminal offences, it should be approved for the conduct of criminal proceedings, as well as for the court who conducts the criminal proceedings on their request to enable the Court of Justice, acting independently and independently, on the basis of the Constitution and the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25014	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I find that there is no interest in the debate. I'm closing the debate. We're going straight to the vote. I am voting in favour of the decision proposed by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that unanimously with 122 votes to determine, we've made a decision on, we've confirmed the decision. Thank you very much. Let's go to choices, appointments and resolutions. I would like the chairman of the Committee for Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Assembly of Honored Shim Lucin to submit a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25016	Thank you very much. Mr President, colleagues and colleagues of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs at its 18th session identified the following: Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament. First, a member of the Tomislav Karamarko committee is dismissed. Under two, a member of the committee is called Ivan Shantek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25017	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. Can we make a statement as to who's in favour of the proposed decision? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 11 votes, we have made the proposed decision. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25018	Next is the Proposal for a decision on the selection of members and termination of the term of office of members of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament is elected Drazen Pandek. Under two, so on 13 June 2012, a member of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting as Mikhail Zmajlović.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25019	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I suggest we state who's in favour of the proposed decision? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 11 votes, we have made the proposed decision. Thank you very much. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25020	Proposal for a decision on the resolution and selection of a member of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament. A member of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament Dragica Zgrebec is hereby dismissed. Two, for a member of the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership of the Croatian Parliament, is chosen by Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25021	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposed decision. Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 110 votes, we have made the proposed decision. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25022	Proposal for a decision on the selection of a member and termination of the term of office of a member of the Committee on Family, Youth, Sports of the Croatian Parliament. One is selected for the member of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament Marija Lugarić. Under two, on 19 June 2012, a member of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament stopped acting as Dan Spicer due to the termination of the term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25023	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposed decision. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 110 votes, we have made the proposed decision. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25024	Proposal for a Decision on the selection of a member of the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds of the Croatian Parliament for a member of the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds of the Croatian Parliament is elected Draženko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25025	I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on a proposal for a decision to elect a member of the Committee on Regional Development and EU funds of the Croatian Parliament. Who's in? Who's against it? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 109 votes to make a decision. We move on to the proposal for a Decision on the discharge and appointment of presidents and members of the Committee for the award of the Faust Vrancic Award.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25026	Thank you very much. So, the president of the Committee for the "Faust Vrancic" award, Prof. Dr. Ante Markotic, members of the "Faust Vrančić" award committee Prof. Dr. Igor Catic, Prof. Dr. Tonko Curko, mr. Alan Labuz, Ivica Lovric, Professor Bernardine Perosh. Under two, Ivanka Roksandić, member of the "Faust Vrančić" award committee, members of the Education, Science and Culture Committee of the Croatian Parliament, expired through the legal deadline. Three, the "Faust Vrancic" award committee is named president of Prof. Dr. Nedjeljko Perić, for the members of Prof. Dr. Stjepan Car, Prof. Dr. Bozidar Matijević, Tihomir Tomičić, Dubravko Diklic, Prof. Dr. Anto Markotic and Dr. Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25027	I'm opening a debate. No one's answering. I'm closing the debate. I'm putting a motion for a decision to be adopted. Who's in? Thank you. Do you mind? The abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I agree that 107 votes for the unanimous proposal for a Decision on the resolution and appointment of the president and members of the "Faust Vrancic" award were adopted. Today's session is over. We continue to work on Monday 10 December at 15.00 hours with a debate on the Justice Development Strategy for the period from 2013 to 2018. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25028	Let's go to choices, appointments and resolutions. I would like the chairman of the Committee on Elections, Appoints and Administrative Affairs of Honored Representative Shim Lucin to submit a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25029	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The selection and appointment committee set out its 19th session of the 12th month proposals for decisions for the external members of the 22 board of the Croatian Committee after the consultations and agreement of representatives clubs in the Croatian Parliament. The first is the proposal for a decision on the appointment of members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament, Dr. Branko Smerdel, Dr. Ivana Koprić, Dr. Nenad Zakosek, Dr. Sanja Baric, Florian Boras and Dragan Zelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25030	I'm opening a debate. No one's got to argue. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 118 votes, we have made the proposed decision. Congratulations to the chosen on this committee. We're going to the next decision, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25031	This is a proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee. They are appointed members of Mladen Godek, Dr. Snježana Vasiljevic,... Antic, Dr Marinko Ucur, Emil Tomljanovic and Mirela Fadljević.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25032	I'm opening a debate. No one's answering for a hearing. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please state who's in. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously, with 117 votes in favour, we have made the proposed decision. I also congratulate the chosen on this committee. Let's move on, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25033	Proposal for a decision appointing members of the Defence Committee of the Croatian Parliament. They are called members of Petar Stipetić, Dr Petar Vejic, Dr Vlatko Cvrtila, Antun Tus, Tomo Medved, Zvonko Maricic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25034	I'm opening a debate. There's no one interested in the debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a proposal for a ruling. Please, who's in. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously, with 114 votes in favour, we have made the proposed decision. Congratulations, too, to be elected to this committee. I'm asking for the next proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25035	Proposal for a decision on the appointment of members of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament. The members are named Dr. Anto Bajo, Dr. Zoran Bohaček, Vanja Dominović, Marija Dujkovic, Dr. Nikola Mijatovic and Dr. Petar Sindičić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25036	I'm opening a debate. There's no one interested in the debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a proposal for a ruling. Please state who's in. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that, unanimously, with 115 votes in favour, we have made the proposed decision. Please make the next decision, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25037	This is a proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Croatian Parliament's Economic Committee. The members are called Jasna Boric, Doctor Josip..., Davor Majetic, Dragutin Ranogajek, Sanja Kraljek and Dr Marko Kolaković.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25038	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. I find there are no interested in the debate. I'm closing the debate. I am making a statement of the proposed decision. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously, with 116 votes in favour, we have made the proposed decision. We're going to the next decision of the Honorable President of the Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25039	Thank you. Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament. The members are named Dr Dora Smoljčić Jurdana, Lejla Kresic Juric and Master Dijana Katica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25040	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'd like to make a statement about the motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you very much. Does anyone mind? Thank you. Are there any abstentions? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously, with 116 votes in favour, we have made the proposed decision. The president can do next.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25041	Proposal for a decision on the appointment of members of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament. The members are named Nura Ismailovski, Ana Mandac, Marijana Petir and Željko Frost.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25042	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. We'll do it in a row. Honorable representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25043	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The citizens of the Republic of Croatia, when they elected us to this House of Highs, believed in the choice best, and I believe they did not make a mistake, but they passed on to us a great commitment, the obligation to decide in the best faith, according to the highest level of their knowledge and abilities, according to the highest responsibility, according to the highest standards of parliamentary democracy, and also in the good faith that when we choose or appoint, we will try to choose the best. I speak today and stand up as a member of a national minority in the Republic of Croatia and as a longtime activist of associations dealing with the protection of human and national minority rights. Today we appoint more than a hundred outside members of the 22 committees and I immediately say, I have no reserve for a hundred candidates and candidates, I have reserves here with this committee and only with this committee. There are three challenges or problems I see in this... The first is that I think it is not good to propose a candidate or a candidate who himself has proposed or proposed, and to ignore the fact that other candidates have very relevant recommendations behind them, especially civil society development associations. Someone will say we may be talking pro domo sua because one of the candidates is a member of my national minority, a member, but that's why. I know who it's about, and I know that behind it are all relevant civil society associations Slavonia and Baranja, but well, it doesn't have to be. The second problem I see, I don't think it's good for the board to have two members or a member of the same national minority. All representatives of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia sitting in this House shall sit on the committee as you know by duty. I don't think it's a good thing in a situation where not all the national minorities defined by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia can be represented, that we're narrowing down that tight space further anyway. I think it should open up space to other minorities, provided it's about quality candidates or candidates. The third problem I see is not denying the absolute right of any party, nor the opposition to advocate that anyone be elected in this election procedure. I see the problem with proposing people against whom the public rises. It is not our goal, and it must not be a standard for us to irritate the interested public, especially one who deals with human and minority rights, but if it is possible for us to help the committee to be as competent as possible through the appointment of members of the outside board. But I cannot accept, forgive me in advance, my conscience does not allow me to vote for the person whom civil society associations have declared homophobia for decades. I cannot accept the appointment of a person who openly obstructed the solution of a major injustice in the past term, which is the return of property to the land communities that were abducted by the authorities in '47. A year. And I cannot accept voting for the proposal, for the person who in 2008 alone voted in this House against the promotions, i.e. the amendment and addition of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination proposed by the then Government of our colleague, Mrs Jadranka Kosor. My conscience doesn't allow it. I'd like the election board, the appointments to give another opportunity to repeat the public call and to be satisfied with everyone in this House what we're going to vote on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25044	Thank you, Your Honor. A replica of the respected representative, Branko Hrg, has been reported at your presentation. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25045	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I didn't mean to pick up at these points, but since my colleague didn't say any names, we know exactly who it was. I just have to say that when we read these proposals, we see that the proposal of the Croatian Bishop's Conference is here. So let's let the parties go now, let's let whoever's talking. No one here suggested on behalf of the party. This is about a proposal from the Croatian Bishop's Conference. So I'm asking that we think that way and that's how we analyze these things and talk about candidates and candidates who are here.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25046	The reply to the replica is Honored Representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25047	Comrade Hrg, I highly appreciate your attempt to transfer responsibility to someone else, but I don't think that's a good thing. The responsibility for what we do is borne by us, not by the Bishop's Conference. Everyone has the right to propose, even themselves, and there is nothing broken. But what is definitely our responsibility is the responsibility of the appointment. There's nothing here with that bishop's conference. That's what we keep on our consciences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25048	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate. Next is Honorable Representative Nedzad Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25049	Thank you, Mr. President. In fact, I am firmly convinced that all the people we choose as external board members will do their duty honorably, but I also think it is not a good practice for us to have members of two of the national minorities in the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of the National Minorities. We had other suggestions. So, I think all these people will do their job well, but we'd like this committee to further... and in its competences and potential problems that would come from the field if we had instead of two from one national minority if we had more members of different national minorities on the board. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And so I won't support a proposal like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25050	A replica of the respected representative, Dinko Buric, has been reported at your presentation. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25051	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I have to admit, I didn't understand either of you in the end. You don't agree with anything, but you didn't make another suggestion. I mean, what name are you against and what proposal do you want? Well, you guys were talking about it, you didn't say your name, and we all know, but you didn't make a suggestion that you're proposing instead just like you are now. After all, the procedure for the election of outside members of all committees lasted, I'd say four weeks, eight weeks. All the clubs had time, and I think all the proposals are in line. I am even here now I must admit the unpleasant surprise that within the ruling majority you have failed to agree and do not invalidate the proposals or the personal candidacy, and especially the proposals that come on behalf of the Croatian Bishop's Conference. Well, I mean, it really doesn't stand. But make a suggestion, and then the Croatian Parliament and MPs will discuss it And then cancel, suggest a solution. [[Intruder: Can't.]] You had two discussions, instead of agreeing within the ruling coalition on every name. And in the end, the problem turned out only inside I would say the odds of the ruling, and the opposition simply agreed and respected. I think this bullshit is one thing, it's not very good. It's not a good message.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25052	Thank you very much. Replicate response, honourable representative Nedzad Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25053	Dear colleague, in that part of how much you've replicated my discussion, I can say it out loud and clear, so we've also been sending some suggestions, wanting to expand the numbers of different members of the national minorities. In a specific case, therefore, we will have in the Committee on Human Rights one parliamentary representative of a member of the Roma national minority and we will have a member outside of the Roma national minority. We think that because of the work of that committee, it would be better if we didn't have two from the Roma national minority than if we had someone else no matter who it was, someone who would agree to the quotas or the agreement, but we simply felt that it would be good if instead of two Roma we had one Roma and members and some other national minority.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25054	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the list of persons reported for questioning. I'm closing the debate. We will now come to terms in a democratic way with the proposal for a decision. By raising our hands, may we please state who is in favour of the proposed decision? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 89 votes in favour, 22 votes against and 6 abstentions, have made the proposed decision. Thank you very much. We're going to the next decision of the Honorable President of the Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25055	Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Board of Justice of the Croatian Parliament, the members are named Daniel Kardum, Prof. dr.sc. Mihajlo Dicka, Dr. Berislav Pavisic, Katarina Cosic, Drazen Bosnjaković and Ljiljana Levatic-Uskoković.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25056	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I find there are no interested in the debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposed decision. Please plead, who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I confirm that, unanimously, with 116 votes, we have made the proposed decision. We're going to the next decision of the Honorable President of the Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25057	Thank you. Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Committee on Labour, Pension System and the Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament, for members are named Prof. dr.sc. Dragan Bagic, Davorko Vidovic, Dr. Viktor Gotovina and Ljubica Lukacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25058	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a proposal for a ruling. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 114 votes, we have made the proposed decision. Please move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25059	Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Health and Social Policy Committee of the Croatian Parliament, called Hrvoje Minigo, Slava Šepec, Mr.sc. Hrvoje Pezo, Zinka Bratuša, Mario Zovak and Mr. Bernarda Juretic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25060	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. I find there are no interested. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a proposal for a ruling. Please plead, who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 114 votes, we have made the proposed decision. I'm asking the next chairman of the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25061	Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports of the Croatian Parliament are hereby appointed as members of Dr. Aleksandra Korać Graovac, Danica Hursa and Mr. Stjepan Adanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25062	I'm opening a debate. I find there are no interested in the debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a statement on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 112 votes, we have made the proposed decision. Please continue, Mr. President of the Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25063	Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia are hereby appointed as members of Dr. Vjekoslav Bratić, academician Petar Strčić, mr. John Vice Batarello, Bernardo Parrish.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25064	I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm asking you to make a statement on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 112 votes, we have made the proposed decision. Please, the next chairman of the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25065	Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Committee on War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament, are appointed members of Zarko Miholić, Zvonko Maričić, Ilija Vucilović Šimunović.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25066	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a proposal for a ruling. Please plead, who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that, unanimously, with 113 votes, we have made the proposed decision. Please make the next decision, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25067	Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction of the Croatian Assembly are hereby appointed as members of Dr. Nevenka Ožanić, Branka Martinović-Vuković and Mirjana Cagalj.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25068	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no one to report for the hearing. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a proposal for a ruling. Please, who's in favour of the motion for a decision? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 114 votes, we have made the proposed decision. Please make the next decision, Mr. President-in-Office of the Board.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25069	Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment and Nature of the Croatian Parliament are hereby appointed as members of Dr. Miljenko Doric, Ivana Martinić and dr.sc. Mario Shiljeg.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25070	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a proposal for a ruling. Please state who's in favour of the motion for a decision? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that, unanimously, with 113 votes, we have made the proposed decision. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25071	This is a proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Education, Science and Culture Committee of the Croatian Parliament. The members are named Dr. Boris Labar, Dr. Goran Sucic, Master of Edita Stilin, Dr. Damir Boras, Dr. Kresimir Rotin and Dr. Željko Turkalj.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25072	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate on the motion for a decision. Please state who's in favour of the motion for a decision? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that we unanimously, with 111 votes to make the proposed decision. We're going to the next esteemed board president.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25073	Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Committee on Agriculture of the Croatian Parliament. The committee is called Dragutin Bodakoš, Dr Dragutin Vincek and Dr Mladen Jurisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25074	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am making a statement of the proposed decision. Who's in? Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that, unanimously with 112 votes, we have made the proposed decision. The next decision is made by the Honorable President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25075	Proposal for a Decision appointing members of the Committee on Regional Development and EU funds of the Croatian Parliament. The members are called Ruzica Gelo, Mirza Sabic and Ivana Maletic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25076	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a proposal for a ruling. Please plead. Who's in favour of the motion for a decision? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. That's not true. We have to do it again. We had a abstention. Please state who's in favour of the motion for a decision? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that we have made the proposed decision by a majority of 111 votes for and 1 abstention. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25077	Your Honor, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25078	Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25079	I apologize, the result isn't correct. Mr. Dragovan came out and we were still missing 112.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25080	You're asking for a re-election? And here comes Dujomir Marasovic, no need to vote again. Thank you very much. Please make the next decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25081	Proposal for a decision on the appointment of members of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure of the Croatian Parliament. They're named for the members of Dr. Paul Komadin, Mr. Lambasha powder, Dr. Robert Inkret, Vedran Sabelak and Dr. Tomo Vidovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25082	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no one interested in the debate. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a motion to make a statement, please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 112 votes, we have made the proposed decision. We're going to the next esteemed president.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25083	Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Information, Information and Media Committee of the Croatian Parliament. They are appointed members of Slavica Lukić, Dr. Ninoslav Novak, Andrej Matijašević, Dr. Zrinka Berusko, Veljko Lukić and Mr. Davor Pavić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25084	I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I'm making a proposal for a ruling. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that by a majority of the 109 votes in favour and one abstention, we have made the proposed decision. Let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25085	Proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Committee for Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament. They are appointed members of Nives Kopalidić-Škrec, Jadranka Nikolov, Dr. Mirko Klaric, mr. Vojko Obersnel, Nikola Blažević, Tomislav Tolusic, Mladen Ivanovic, Darko Nekić, etc. Boris... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25086	I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am making a statement of the proposed decision. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 112 votes, we have made the proposed decision. Next decision, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25087	The last decision, i.e. a proposal for a decision on the appointment of members of the Committee on Gender Equality of the Croatian Parliament. So they are appointed members of Tanja Broz, Dr. Ivana Radačić and Silvija Dolosic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-07-0.u25088	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am making a statement of the proposed decision. Please state who's in favour? Does anyone mind? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 112 votes, we have made the proposed decision. With this I will conclude the 6th session of the Croatian Parliament. This is an opportunity to congratulate and wish you a happy Christmas, a happy and successful New Year to you personally as members of the Croatian Assembly, your families, your loved ones, loved ones, to have a good Christmas and Christmas holidays, to meet somewhere in the 1st month orna for work, discussion and decision-making, to prepare, there will come as much material as I know from the Government. I expect a continuation of the work of the Croatian Parliament after the first half of January, about 23rd of January. Once again, Merry Christmas and Happy New Year. For those we don't see... One more sentence, please. [[Applause.]] In accordance with the custom according to the wish and in accordance with the material position at the costs of the Croatian Assembly for the team, I suggest that we do a little cocktail and a mutual congratulation here in front of the hall of this Croatian Parliament. I think it'd be better to keep up the tradition and hang out a little bit. Thank you very much. Good afternoon, esteemed fellow MPs and respected fellow MPs. We continue our work at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. But above all, respected MPs and respected MPs I would like today to be 10th on the occasion of the International Day of Human Rights, which is the date that the UN General Assembly adopted in 1948 the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the political and legal basis of the new world organisation. It is the source of a number of other declarations that further develop and expand fundamental human rights by changing the world into a political, social and cultural and technological perspective. In today’s globalized world, many feel that shell work needs to be arranged by rejecting as much profit as possible. It's basically a wrong opinion because work is a man's dignity and needs to bring happiness to a man, not just an existence. Ensure his existence and free him of addiction, fear and indifference. On the occasion of the celebration of the International Day of Human Rights, the joint session was held by the delegation of the Croatian Parliament at the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on the Rights of the Rights and Rights of National Minorities. I remind you once again that today, the 10th December Human Rights Day is important for each Parliament and for Croatia as well. Thank you very much.
