ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22062	Now we move on to the debate on agenda points. First is - The proposal of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013 and projections for 2014 and 2015, - Proposals for financial plans for extra budgets for 2013 and projections for 2014 and 2015 (a) of the Croatian Waters Fund (a) of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund (a) of the Croatian Roads (a) of the State Deposit Insurance Agency and Bank Rehabilitation Agency (a) of State Asset Management Agency (a) Proposal for the State Budget and financial plans of the extra-financial users for 2013 and 2015 – consolidated; Explanation of the State Budget and financial plans for 2013 and projections for 2014 and 2015 – consolidated. The proposer of these acts and the draft budget is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received a proposal for action in boxes. The adoption of the State budget shall be subject to the provisions of Articles 174 and 175. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on these proposals was held by: the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links, the Committee on the Protection of the Environment and Nature, the Committee on War Veterans, the Committee on Space Planning and Construction, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Education, Science, Culture, the Committee on Environment and Nature, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on Local, the Regional and Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Croatians outside Croatia, the Committee on Defence, the Committee on Labour, the Pension System and the Social Partnership and the Committee on Justice. You received reports from these working bodies from the Board of the Croatian Parliament at the session. I would like to remind you of Article 38 of the Budget Act, according to which any amendments and additions adopted by the Parliament through amendments to the proposed state budget and projections must not exceed the amount of the permitted lack of state budget and projections. In the course of the debate on the State Budget Proposal, amendments proposed to increase budgetary expenditure, expenditure above the amounts set out in the proposal for a State Budget and projection may be submitted provided other expenditures are simultaneously proposed, expenditure in a specific part of the budget. The amendments referred to above shall not be on the burden of the budgetary stock or on the burden of additional borrowing. In this regard, I warn that only those amendments submitted under the Budget Law will be addressed in the parliamentary procedure. The deadline for submission of the amendment is until Wednesday, November 28th, to 4:00 p.m. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament determines that amendments and budgets submitted cannot be voted upon before three days of the day of the debate can elapse. I now call on the proposer's representative for an additional explanation of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, respected Zoran Milanovic. Please welcome the Honorable Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22063	Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. I will share my time with Mr. Slavko Linic, Minister of Finance. I see this today as a debate and debate on the 2013 Budget and the possibility that today and also in the days that follow, which through the debate, which through the amendments we say to each other what we think, we give proposals for a solution mainly to discuss the fundamental political and financial act of the state through which the policies of each government are reflected, but also the possibilities and real state of economy and finance. I'm gonna go like this. If there were no interest costs, Croatia would be somewhere around zero or primary surplus. However, there is a cost of interest. It's a reality. There have been before, and now they've grown further. They've grown about that amount that's slow in our payload. And that's reality and we can't turn our backs on that reality and pretend that I said the other day it's not raining – it's raining, but it's meteorological. You go outside and try to create a successful civilization in the rain. We have a problem. That problem comes down to the following. We spend more than we create. When a family does so ends up in bankruptcy figuratively, in future and legally. When a company does so, when a company does so ends up in bankruptcy, i.e. in liquidation. When it's done by state and state finances, then it doesn't end so easily in bankruptcy, and before that, a long experience shows up, closes its eyes. But at the end of the day when it comes, the consequences are even worse than the bankruptcy, and today we see in some European countries that have been in the last 20 years, and for the most part, 10 years after the introduction of the euro, they simply spent a lot more than they had. They got used to a certain standard, they took it for granted, and it changed. We need to change some things in our heads and some things to stop taking for granted, and to have more the day after that than we had. That's why I'm saying these days that the state we're in is a state of emergency. It's not a state of panic and disorder, it's a state where we have to realize that some time has passed and that we can't do it anymore. And that if we're all talking about the changes that we have to stand up for and work on for these changes. We in the 2012 Budget had ambitions to go into certain changes. So let's say that when it comes to the mass of wages, the total mass of wages that we think is too big in that we weren't particularly successful. The reasons are that Croatia is a legal state, which we cannot break things over our knees, which there are contractual obligations with trade unions in public services that were concluded and created earlier, and you have to respect it until legal conditions are created for different conditions. In 2012 now after this rebalancing was obviously we switched to consumption, although it was until now the first budget that was realistically lower. But we underestimated the budget's income. So we arrived more than we announced at the beginning of the year. This in itself is not a reason to celebrate, for the costs were also growing and were very difficult to stop. We've collected an indicative of a billion and a half kuna, so we've collected it if you want to take more from the citizens and the economy than was planned. We went with a series of measures that weren't revolutionary, which weren't any new ideas, which were an attempt to facilitate the economy by reducing certain burdens, parafiscal burdens. You know what they are so I don't list them, it contributes to health care. Despite all this, more money was collected in the position of contributing than in 2011. We say in discipline and order, someone will tell the pressure and the flashes. The truth is somewhere in the middle. Without pressure, there's no results, no pressure on yourself, no pressure on your partner, but there's no pressure that's constructive. On the other hand, the costs simply pressure us and in 2013 the cost of interest growth, I will not even mention the shipbuilding. It is up to us to solve problems, and within a very short period of time that no one seriously wanted to solve for the past 20 years. Out of political fear of being resentful. We'll obviously have to object, but less than we thought. As things stand now, we'll probably make it at this stage to save the shipbuilding, probably. But when you have to save someone, it's a bad acute condition. And that's the result of a chronic disease that lasts more than 20 years. For the past 20 years in socialism, eyes have been closing. We produced products that weren't bad, but that were simply invaluable. Otherwise, we as a country aren't bad at all, given how much we work, how many people really work, and that's a key piece of information to me, even more important than unemployment. From institutions and polls we are a relatively productive economy and nations because given the small percentage of employees we create a relatively higher social product than some neighbouring countries where a higher percentage of people work. So by man we're more productive, by woman, by man we're more productive. But of course that's not a result, or any reason for happiness. People don't work. In 2013, we forecast a 1.8% growth. In 2012, we predicted a growth of 0.8% and we made a mistake as did most of Europe. The next year will be a difficult year in Europe, the entire southern Europe will fall into economic growth. I won't mention Spain and Portugal, let's just start with Italy, which is an important economy for Croatia, the forecast of the fall. Hungary, Slovenia, eastern neighbours, Austria around zero. In such circumstances, analysts forecast some kind of growth for Croatia. Honestly speaking from month to month is getting smaller. We have seen that analysts, therefore not Croatian analysts, foreign analysts also know how to make mistakes and that a mistake in this business is a perfectly normal thing. So we're here right now, somewhere around zero, relative to the others that are down. And we depend on these others, both in exports, in tourism, and in most of our other activities. The German economy is stagnating due to the influence of the Eurozone. So that's what got them, too. The good news is that Greece was forgiven yesterday for one significant part of the debt, obviously it didn't go differently because Greece, to say just a sentence, two about Greece, was unfortunately a symptom of fiscal unrest and the debt that pushed them was so much that the country could never again think about economic growth in the next generation with the return of its commitments, and without economic growth it could not repay obligations. This move yesterday made an important turn in Europe and these are the things that will have an impact on us. Of course, without our merits simply as something that happened. However, what can we do, what is on us that distinguishes us from others, and why, despite everything, do they give us any chance of coming next year? We are small, tough, vital, we have tourism that saves our balance of payments, if we didn't have it, it would be much harder for us and we have in the next year, after a year, serious plans for public sector investment of up to 4 billion kuna. But that won't be enough. This will not be enough because without the private sector, without private initiative, without the release of that creative energy among people, Croatia will not have economic growth. And we're used to economic growth as something healthy for granted. Not just us, the entire Western civilization. This is the most, so I don't want to talk about the crisis anymore because it's gonna turn out to be an excuse and it's nobody's fault, it's not even the previous government, but we're living in tough times, and we need to change some paradigms. Public consumption, paradoxically, but at this point, the strongest critics of the government are some people living off the budget and living in the public sector. I spent my entire career until I entered politics for 12 years in the public sector, being a civil servant, a diplomat, getting paid from the state budget and not being an entrepreneur. So I depended on it, my standard, my progress depended on it. However, I was also aware of what was possible and what was impossible. When I earned the overtime, when I looked for him and you know we never looked for them or got them. But I don't expect it from other people, I don't expect it from doctors, I don't expect from nurses, I don't expect from teachers or anyone who works in the public sector, but I expect patience. Because what does not have a large number of Croatian people at this time or a large number of Croatian people question whether they will have next month or next quarter a number of people in Croatia have several tens of thousands of people and will have, will have a job, will have a salary and that salary will be more or less the same. It won't be lower by 30, 40% than in the media, like in some industries. We simply adapt more slowly in the public sector and close our eyes to some facts. Unfortunately, if we had started the changes before, three years ago, if we had been a little bit sharper, maybe today would have been a little different. It wouldn't matter any differently. We see in Europe that the only countries that were going with sharp cuts today have economic growth, but it is so few countries in northern Europe, these are so small economies and have had such a dramatic decline at the beginning of almost 20% of the GDP that the question is, can we even compare with them? So our case is special. Our case is also such that in the last few years we have fallen a lot, we are not the worst in Europe but the downfall of the economy, so the decline of the created value is significant. And we're going to have a hard time bringing it back. Therefore, Croatia is in a situation that the banking sector is relatively stable, that the percentage of risk placements is still relatively acceptable, that we have avoided the situation in which some of the northern states like Ireland, which at one point had 30% of the budget deficit compared to the social product which can indeed withstand only Ireland and the southern states that have huge unemployment rates and the perspective of the economic downturn. Croatia is somewhere in between. When we look at where we are, we are on the edge of the heart of Europe, the pre-clave of Europe, the heart of Europe, we have great potential in transport, in energy. We are working on the development of a transport route from Rijeka to Budapest. It's a job that goes and is seriously under way. This means hundreds of millions of euros and billions of euros in business opportunities for Croatian entrepreneurs for Croatian public enterprises, that means developing new jobs, that means independence and something that resembles wealth. And what we see today is that the only thing you're making out of states is in the full sense of the word of an independent state. At this point, two, three are in Europe, Switzerland, Norway, Austria, Germany, some Scandinavian countries, all others are in trouble and will have to change. The sooner we realize we have to change, the better. We'll keep jobs, we'll keep the public sector, we'll keep the salaries and competences, because I don't want them coming here in five years as they come to Romania today, scouts from Germany and Austria, and they're taking away 50% of the trained doctors who are trained here on the cost of the Croatian state and taxpayers. It would be a fiasco, it would be a fiasco to become in the EU from net winners, a net contributor, a net payer, and in order not to do so, you have to do a lot of work. It's not guaranteed. In the next 7 years, we will make a fixed payment to the EU budget of 4 billion euros in the multiannual financial framework. We can get back 11.5 billion, but it's not guaranteed, it'll depend on our ability to fight for that money. Last week at the European Council, as a considerable budget has not passed. There will be no discussion about it in December, and an agreement will likely be reached in January. For Croatia, there is one important issue, it has an impact on the budget perhaps not for 2013, but for the years that are coming forward in 2014 and that is whether we will use these funds from structural funds and cohesion under rule N+2 or N+3. N+2 means a year less to spend money on projects, N+3 means a year more. We're fighting for N+3 because that's what all the new members had when they became members. That rule is repealed and we ask it to apply to Croatia. I can't promise anything but it's also a difference that can be measured in hundreds of millions of euros. These are the things we are working on today and it is a new Croatian reality and the capital is Zagreb, and the reserve, I stress the reserve with the great R is Brussels. There will be many decisions that can affect our growth. Of course, the goal is that Croatia is not dependent on European funds and that from the status of net winners, so net benefeckt... the one who gets the money becomes the one who pays the surplus, and only rich countries do so. When we get to that, we'll be fine. So I cannot overemphasise the impact of European funds on Croatian public finances over the next seven years of the EU's multiannual financial framework, but the main battle will continue here in Croatia. I'm not going to tell you right now that I'm asking you to support this budget unconditionally, but to discuss this budget, of course, all its items if you want, small items, details, micro-management, but above all, about the wider picture. So what are our options, where we have to deny, where we can give, who is cut off. This year, given the growth of 2013 so I am talking about the growth of certain obligations, more or less all the resolutions have been given something less, more or less everyone, except for the Ministry of Defence, which has been crushed under the burden of crisis all these years. And it's about one of the two fundamental functions that we can't allow any further. Everything else will have to adapt and that's the reality we live in. We can talk about who she should have taken, who she didn't take, but I'm gonna say one thing that I haven't said in a while, but it bothers me. So the way the budget has been done in Croatia for the past 20 years is not a project way. We're even more or less into those reductions this year where we had to go linearly with a resolution that might be the most just. But is that the best? That's a big question. If I propose a budget here before you next year, if even then I am Prime Minister, I now guarantee that the budget approach will be different, it will be harder, harder and harder for those who will work on it. This year we continue to follow an momentum that lasts already on the ho-ho years, so not only from the last government but also before and practically patch up what we can do and it's sustainable, but it's not a perspective. I'll stop here and ask the Minister of Finance to continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22064	Thank you very much. The second part of the respected Slavko Linic Minister of Finance of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22065	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. What are the economic messages of the State budget for 2013? two important messages when talking about the development component, which is the battle for jobs, increasing the number of employees, and not through consumption of state and personal, but through investment. The 2013 message is that we see these battles through both state investment and private investment. In 2012, the state prepared itself for investment, implemented a lot of restructuring in state-owned companies, strengthened the results of its business, created its own capital, so that credit could be invested. When we talk about private investors, the battle for the financial restructuring of each individual entity, and all for reasons to maintain production so that it can move towards investment. Therefore, 2013 is a battle for investment, job conservation and employment. When we talk about 2014 and 2015, we expect a bigger expansion in exports, and that is the moment when the competitiveness of the Croatian economy is important, therefore the battle for competitiveness. The battle for competitiveness by reducing tax burdens, holding enough capital prices, providing enough funds for economic activity to be competitive on the new market of 1.7. When we talk about investments then it is necessary to say most of the government's policy is aimed at subsidising imports. Thus, it is turned to investment in the energy sector, tourism and everything else so that they can be competitive in some way. Therefore, in part of the battle for jobs, these are the most important messages. Create conditions for the private sector so that it can survive on the Croatian market and prepare for the next years for export strategy and battle for our competitiveness. A few words on the essential items of income and expenditure and we will continue through expenditure on other political messages and economic messages of this budget. Therefore, when we talk about the budget very briefly, VAT changes significantly for 2013 in its structure, we primarily reduce VAT to catering services or food and drink services from 25% to 10%, all for reasons to strengthen the tourist offer and make this tourist offer not only in the tourist season but also out of season and for Croatia to become an annual destination for guests who come to Croatia. We also aligned with negotiations signed and our VAT rate and zero rate increased to 5% because they were the clauses of our signed documents. Similarly, strengthening discipline in the part of cash payments, and all for the reason that we eliminate the unfair match above all, and that means that anyone who legitimately operates, who legally earns, can count on economic growth, expand their activity, and basically eliminates all those who essentially went through non-executive obligations in the Croatian market to both their suppliers and their banks to the state. We have estimates of these changes that will provide about 1.2 billion, and consolidation of the Croatian economy, maintenance of production and strengthening investments to contribute to around 1.7 billion. The excise duties for the following year had significant changes for the reasons that we had to comply with the negotiating chapters so that excise duties were fully in line with EU directives and we expect revenue of around 1.3 billion. Also, when we talk about profit tax, we see fewer incomes because we expect that, on the basis of profit tax, many will benefit from a relief and focus their profits on investment, in the development of their activity, and there will be fewer obligations for profit tax. When we talk about customs duties, we see that from 1.7. there are no more customs duties for European EU Member States, and that means less income in that part. We estimate that the only risk if we talk about revenues is always the risk of economic growth that has been incorporated into our revenues of 1.7 billion in these projections and that is why it is a very clear message from the government that it will actively participate in the consolidation of every private entity on the Croatian market. What about the expenditures of the state budget? The expenditure of the state budget is a burden on the government for the reason that in Croatia, the Law on fiscal responsibility said that we will be responsible for spending the funds and that this spending of funds must not be unlimited, it must not be only on the burden of new duties, it must not be on the burden of the deficit. And what we can see when we look globally, we have indeed tried in that part not to increase our expenditure in part of the fiscal deficit for the reasons for the rules set out which we have agreed and which are legal in the Republic of Croatia. The biggest problem for the government that we thought was not a problem but a challenge is how to actually manage expenditures if because of the enormously high debts that currently amount to 170 billion, but not by the end of the year, it will increase because the entire tourism sector with covered guarantees is not in the deficit. Health and health consolidation is not a deficit, we also have no restructuring that we have in the railways and in the highways and roads Zagreb-Rijeka. Therefore, we are aware that the total debt is growing, and that means the risk of interest growth. Therefore, for the Government in 2013 it was possible to draw up the expenditure side of the budget when you already have 2 additional billions for interest, that you have 1.7 billion contributions for the European Union and that the contracts for the sale of shipyards bear further expenditure for next year in the restructuring of shipyards with new owners of around 900 million. Also, the changes in the way the HANDA accounts and the display of investments in reserves and oil derivatives carry 700 million kuna. Therefore, new expenditures simply imposed on the government by challenges to draw up the budget of all other ministries, and wanting to preserve each project, wanting to allow it to invest, wanting to make it possible for us to have reforms through each ministry because reforms mean stability of the budget. And the proposed spending side with all the limits you can see that we have managed to put together what is fundamental that we do not have an explosion of the budget, although we see that the spending side is growing by more than 4 billion kuna. What you can notice on the spending side is that next year's interest is about nine and a half billion, and at a total deficit of 10.9 billion, it means an enormous amount of our interest deficit. By observing fourteenth and fifteenth, you can see the deficits are even with interest. Therefore, the challenge will be to reduce the interest, how to simply repay the interest or pay the interest in revenue rather than the deficits. The deficit means we're paying interest out of debt right now. So, not to pay back our debts, we don't pay back our interest. I estimate that for this very reason, the government has decided to show that it has to save some part of it and that this savings refers to a part of the public sector salary in the part where we can give up some of the supplements, that we simply show that we are responsible for our investors, according to our lenders. It should be pointed out that we have not touched the pension system although the biggest problems for the government will be a challenge in the coming years, which is that pensions amount to about 35 billion, and that we provide only 16 billion out of contributions. Therefore, not half of the contributions are provided. And then there's again the government's message we didn't burden the economy, because we care about its competitiveness but we stayed on the same contributions, but that's why VAT is 25%. And with this constraint of the spending side, we have again provided over 700 million kuna for HBOR, for a bank that can serve us in the financial consolidation of the private sector because it is possible that the state and government through that bank will influence restructuring, their investment activity. And these are the reasons that the message is also the pension system is in line with both the cost of living growth and the movement of wages, and at the same time the pension system is trying to preserve as is indicated here. This is the assessment that, however, we have managed to preserve the envisaged controls and fiscal responsibilities in this spending party. Two words on the deficit since the time is running out and the budget deficit remains at 3.1% of GDP, indicating that the eager battles for development are growing budget deficits only in Croatian roads, Croatian waters because we want to maintain a high level of investment there, and we want to make it easy for individual counties to invest more, and they again mean a larger number of employees and means a higher quality of life. Even 0.7% of the deficit in next year comes only from the foundation of large investments in these two segments, and that is then the government's message. When we were simply obliged to control the expenditure side with a direct budget through the extra budget systems, we allow further development and preservation of the standards of individual units of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22066	Thank you, Mr. Slavko Linic, for your esteemed Minister of Finance. Now we have one set of replicas, a total of 15. The ratio is 9:6. The first replica is the replica of the respected representative of Jadranka Kosor at the presentation of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22067	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, I have a need to briefly replicate to the Prime Minister since I am among all the MPs and MPs in this House the only person who has had the responsibility for the budget Mr Milanovic has today. And that's why I want to say that I understand you and that in some way I feel for you, because I know what it's like to go out for this pay phone and talk about reforms, talk about what should be done and what can't be done. Of course, I disagree with you in the part where you talked about that for 20 years there was no courage to make any moves, some reforms, especially when it comes to the spending side of the budget. I disagree with you, and I'm going to remind you of some of my government's moves that you didn't support. For example, the Labour Act, amendments and additions of the Labour Act. It is my opinion that a part of the big problems you are facing today and that you are trying to solve are right in the fact that the Labour Act has not been amended. Why hasn't he changed? Because you yourself, as of course, and many other MPs of the opposition at the time supported no amendments to the Labour Act, the collection of signatures for petition 700, 800,000 signatures and so on. The law on representativeness can't solve the problems you're struggling with about wages. Of course, reforms are not just about raising taxes. The reforms are certainly in this, in bold decisions, moves and I would like to remind you that my government has made very difficult moves, reducing, for example, pensions to Croatian wartime disabled by 10%, cutting salaries to state and public officials, but also cutting the team, taking cards and many of the moves that you in this government have brought back And just for the end of the day, Mr. President, I would also like to remind you of the fiscal responsibility law we passed in 2010 for which the opposition unfortunately did not want to vote, but also the amendments to the Pension Insurance Act. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22068	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, the Honorable Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22069	Dear colleagues, I would expect to reach for excuses as Prime Minister. I'm surprised that you, as former Prime Minister, are reaching for excuses and making excuses. Your opposition isn't to blame for what you didn't do. The labour law of Croatia does not belong to the most rigid labour laws, does not fall, falls under the middle labour laws and is no big problem. The problems are elsewhere. And next time, tell me what kind of reform you've made. I claim none. Reduced wages 10% to all officials, nobody remembers that here. ... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What kind of reform did you have? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You'll answer that in another replica. So, you ran away from reforms and you raised debt, public debt in years of severe crisis when the economic downturn was 6%, and then you went back to it and it stabilized a little bit. You've completely ignored that fact. So, from the public finances' point of view, it's unserious behavior. We were like this or such opposition, but you stood in the way of us not most of you had. So you've increased public spending in years of decline. Now let the public and some audience decide how responsible and serious it is. I'm not saying it's anti-Croatian but the fact is that public debt as a share of GDP has grown all those years and is now very high and that's why we have these interest rates. I didn't insist on that in my speech, I had to mention it, but I don't use you as an excuse and you use me.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22070	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22071	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, you said you wanted to create a successful civilization in the rain. And I want to say on behalf of those who work in the rain, who work in both droughts and in the most unfavourable climate conditions, which are our farmers. They've been saying from the very beginning of this government that it's being created, that there's going to be a failure. And that's what all the indicators are saying in favor of that. The decline in milk production, the drop in delivery, the collapse of family farms, not to mention further. And there is indeed a right state, a state of emergency, a state that threatens to break. And I really want to say these further intentions, so cutting by 500 million means it's the complete destruction of Croatian villages. And we're talking about the EU. Although it says in Regulation 261 of 2012 it says: "Men need to ensure sustainable economic development of production and thus ensure an adequate standard of living for farmers in the dairy sector." I'm only saying one thing. And what's this, what's this all about? It leads to total food addiction. And further strengthening the dairy industry, I deeply believe that there are elements for the Competition Protection Agency as well. I appeal to you, Mr. Prime Minister, stop this because indeed the Croatian village is about to break. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22072	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica, the Honorable Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22073	Dear colleague, I think you've invested in the infrastructure, in irrigation, we're in a situation where our drought has gone down a lot. You had what's called handouts just giving money without any serious criteria and it's not a serious and responsible policy. You've been blackmailed by your coalition partner, created by people of addiction, it's amazing that I, as a socialist, must speak to you conservatives. That's not how serious the economy is. So, that agriculture will have to be more competitive, it'll have to specialize and circle, that's true, and that's business. Not like any other. Because I think European common agricultural policy is what it costs to cost is a strategic matter because food production is a strategic matter. However, we are entering the EU and the money will be of course for those who are doing a little more work. I don't want to create a sense of addiction in people because it's not a question of left or right, it's a matter of common sense. But we also can't, and we won't force private companies and milk buyers to settle the price for them from the Central Committee, it's gone. And it's gonna be hard and it's not gonna be easy to adapt to. The best will succeed, and for those who fail, we have social programs. But the strongest will succeed and the most productive, those who are not among them society will not reject them, but not everyone can do everything. It's on the trail of that story that used to work at that factory of 20,000 people. He's in that shipyard, and they've had losses that you've been paying for. It's not good for anyone, at the end of the day, every bill comes for payment. I ask you to encourage that reasonable spirit because I think it prevails in our people and in the area where you come from in particular.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22074	Thank you very much. Third replica and respected representative Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22075	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Prime Minister during one of your speeches you said about Croatia and countries in the environment that the Croatian case is special. What I would really like to say is that you are not the first Prime Minister to speak, indicate and explain our country's position with speciality, its speciality with regard to other countries. However, I think time is hard enough to say that our case is not special at all. In the international market for goods, on the international capital market Croatia is measured by the same standard as Estonia, as well as the Czech Republic, as well as Poland, as well as Austria. The rules that apply there, the rules that apply there are better, better, cheaper. And in order to achieve this here in the country, appropriate policies must be made. My comment is therefore on your exposure that I do not think there should be an impression in the public that there is something special, specific, that there is some other way that we could choose our successful position both in the European market and in the EU. There is only one acceptance of the rules of the competitive economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22076	Thank you, too. The reply to the replica, the esteemed Croatian Prime Minister, Mr Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22077	I fully agree with the presentation of the honourable representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22078	Thank you very much. 4. Replica Ivan Domagoj Milosevic, a respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22079	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear President of the Croatian Government, you said you wanted to talk. You mentioned Germany, last week the HDZ party delegation spent in Berlin, and among other things we were just in Bundestaga when it was debated about the German budget. The German state at this point I believe in Europe must be the most industrialised country, globally competitive. When you look at Berlin cranes everywhere, 6.5% if I'm not mistaken for current unemployment. The German state, or economy, is currently looking for about 200,000 engineers. In such a situation, however, the German government has reduced economic growth from 1.6% to 1%. Now, I'm safe and I keep saying that Croatia needs optimism, but Croatia needs realistic optimism. In 2011, which you mentioned, we still had signs of leaving the economic crisis, we had a second and third quarter growth in the economy, the fourth during the parliamentary elections, unfortunately a minimal decline. Last year you were planning a 0.8% growth, and we'll see how big a fall happened. Despite the best tourist season in Croatian history, we all call on this tourism all the time, so despite this, the fall happened. Now I don't wish you 1.8% growth, I want you and all of us 5% economic growth in the coming years. But let's be serious, let's be aware of the situation where we live in the economy and Croatian entrepreneurship and any praise to the finance minister for 700 you said millions, I think even over 800 million kuna for HBOR but that's not enough, it won't be enough. After the growth of VAT which in fact becomes a direct tax is not enough. It needs to be much more creative and to come up with new solutions. Why not, for example. charge VAT to medium and small entrepreneurs at the charge of the account. This is one solution to the non-proliferation or support of the Croatian private sector. I assure you that the Croatian private sector especially middle and small entrepreneurs only in years have room for new employment and job creation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22080	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica was respected Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22081	... The budget deficit was maintained by around 3% both this year and next. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This was otherwise considered a success of course in times that were better than these 3% is a low deficit, but in times of prolonged crisis is a high deficit and accumulates and interest increases. Our interest is now somewhat more favourable on a 10-year bond, but still much higher than what we create. In America, there was a debate about lagging behind and not growing the economy. Watch the growth of 2.5%, and the debt on the 10-year bond is at 1%. It's free money, it doesn't even have Germany. This is not even Germany at this point whose growth is below 1%. Otherwise, unemployment in Germany is not 6.5% but 4.2% when you were already in Berlin for a week or about 4% of youth unemployment is 8% and therefore Germany, Austria and the Netherlands are a total exception in Europe. Everyone else is in serious trouble. But when we talk about growth the German economy is exporting, there's growth practically won't have any next year as things stand. Baltic states have a 5% growth deficit, so they're not export-oriented, they're simply sucking up more money than they're earning outside. The formulas are different, and when an esteemed representative with whom I fully agree has the right, Croatia must not be seen as specific, we must play by the same rules. But we have some advantages, we have seas, we have harbors, we have canals of energy supply. Slovakia, Hungary and Austria don't have it, we can cooperate, there's money. That's the speciality I was thinking of. The smart ones take advantage of it, the ones who aren't smart miss.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22082	Thank you very much. 5. Replicated representative Ivanka Roksandić. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22083	Thank you, Mr. President. So the Honorable Prime Minister speaks of the importance of public service, the preservation of jobs in the public sector. You compared your work in the ministry as a civil servant, but I must remind you that this is about teachers, doctors, nurses, soldiers and police officers. The wages will be more or less the same you said that sentence. In the activities of education for which we are all so committed, that without investment in science and education there is no economic development we are all sure, you have now completely cleared the budget for education and science. I don't know how Minister Jovanovic is going to make the most of the reforms he says he has started, and you're missing 432 million kuna at this point, and I'm going to remind you that we discussed the rebalancing Thursday and that 400 million kuna was missing for this year. Do you count on you already cutting your education and science salary by 10% is that coming from this budget? The teachers aren't asking for anything but to pay them back the wages you cut in July for a thousand kuna. The height, or rather the level of salary of an educator, is a public shame for a country that likes to beat itself into being a state of knowledge society. These are not my words, Prime Minister, these are the words spoken by your colleagues and colleagues in the adoption of the 2011 budget, and in 2012, it has already cut the salary to the educators. I wonder what will happen in 2013 with so little money in the budget for science and education?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22084	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica of Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22085	... If you have a methodological remark on the calculations in the 2012 budget, the 2012 experience shows that we are not sinless, so we projected revenues for 2012 less than what we finally achieved. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] That's good for the budget, but the costs were even higher. If we're talking about public sector wages, look who's happier than me as Prime Minister to have more money for it. Don't say that the budget is peeled, it's not peeled, there's always reserves. The wages are what they are, they're small, they're not high enough, but those salaries are safe. And when we stand up for teachers and educators, and my closest people have done this whole career from the first to the last day, we also know that there are a lot of unemployed people, and the people you're talking about aren't exposed to that risk, they really aren't and they won't be, that there's a lot of people who have a very reduced salary, that there are 330,000 people who at this point at the Bureau, by the polling method 250 000 are actively looking for a job, there's no job, and they're going to start working right now. One and the other numbers are too large, too few people are working. So I understand that you have a need to appeal in one way, I'm not going to say it's populist, but I expect you to suggest a solution. I've never said that before, tell who to take, tell whom to cut short, who to give less, tell. If that solves the problem, we're here, but I don't think you have a solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22086	Thank you very much. And the sixth replica and the esteemed representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22087	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Government, you said in your introduction that such a deficit of the state budget is the result of a first-line increase in interest, an increase in the expenditure of the state budget, a fundamental increase in interest on raised loans which are then clearly... increased and there are no interest increases to make the Republic of Croatia's budget primarily a surplus. That's partly true. It is true that up to the deficits of the state budget and to this proposal of the state budget that you have presented to us and which you represent is the fact that you did not implement the programme you proposed in this House last year when you announced a series of investments in the Republic of Croatia and numerous reforms. Your former first vice president has announced in February the investment tsunamis of that you remember, and now after nine months we can conclude that there is no... what we would say in Dalmatia of these investments. In fact, for the first 6 months according to the data that has been presented to the public about 4 times less investment, foreign investment in the Republic of Croatia compared to the same period last year. And in the rebalancing of the state budget that was adopted this morning, investment positions in this year reduced 25% compared to planned. In this way, the government has indeed stopped numerous investments, fewer investments in numerous local self-government units in Croatia. And the question arises whether the reduction in investment when... from the state deficit on what we promised Croatian society is better, more justified from an economic aspect than investments that would encourage employment in many sectors in construction and other activities in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the fact is that you have not reduced the expenditures because the reforms you have announced in the state administration or local self-government or in the pension and health care system have not been implemented, and therefore the expenditure has not been reduced, and on the other hand because of the lack of investment is not...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22088	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, was respected. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22089	I didn't say that there was no increase in interest rate costs at zero, I said there was no interest costs at all so that then the budget deficit wouldn't be and I didn't give it to anyone as a guilt or responsibility, so here you misquoted me and that's totally irrelevant in the end line. Look, we're entering the European Union, we're going to have to make sure that we get as much of the 11.5 billion available to us over the next seven years. One of the topics and the biggest topics is the Peljek Bridge, the railways, so that's something we can finance the money that's ours. I expect I won't say help because it's the administration, so you can't help and that you will, but I expect understanding. I'm not putting you on the spot again because for 8 years, it was irresponsible to treat that bridge, what was opening the works, it wasn't providing funds, so contracts had to break up with good faith, companies, etc. It's not correct behavior. Such work will not open up a lot of jobs, will not create a lot of new jobs but will create conditions for economic pro-pulsibility, for some kind of pulse to happen. Not to talk about these more important things for Croatia, which is a union of the north and..., but I don't want to make small political points, it's simply our task, the money is there, let's be convincing, boring, that money draws and build a bridge. Croatian companies will work, perhaps when Croatian companies are also designers, it is very important that we do not have that money taken from Western companies. It's going to be a tough game because every euro they send here as net payers at least half of them come right back. Our job is to cut it short, legitimately, to be better.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22090	Thank you very much. Seven replicas and respected representative Đuro Popiac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22091	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You mentioned Mr. Prime Minister that at the beginning of your term you had the ambition to cut employee costs, make reforms, start investment tsunamis. Here's the result of your ambitions this year is 40,000 citizens more on HZZ, a decline in industrial production, a decline in consumption, a drop in investment, a drop in exports, a decline in GDP. Do you know 13% less issued building permits than last year? All that compared to last year. This year you plan to grow 1.8%, so you plan to reach economic activity from 2011. It's obvious, then, that you had excess ambition and lack of knowledge and ability. Furthermore, you said and kept saying that you and your ministers have not done anything for Croatian shipbuilding until now. You are probably aware that we have had an important benchmark for closing negotiations, and these have been successfully brought to an end to restructuring programmes, i.e. accepted restructuring programmes by the European Commission and by the Competition Agency. Mr. Prime Minister, you have been welcomed by accepted restructuring programmes for all shipyards, and the only thing you have managed to do this year is to send a completely unnecessary shipbuilding site for Kraljevica into bankruptcy. So no one in Croatia today knows what is going on with these restructuring programmes on the basis of which we closed negotiations, which were assessed by the largest experts from the shipbuilding industry, from the shipbuilding sector which the European Commission could simply hire. What happens to Croatian shipbuilding today? What restructuring programs will you finance with 900 million kuna next year, we don't know that here.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22092	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica by the esteemed Croatian Prime Minister. What? You didn't remember? Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22093	I thank the participants so far in the discussion in a constructive tone. However, I find your intervention scandalous, quite scandalous. You were Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Economy did nothing in the shipbuilding. And you know what's in the shipbuilding? It's to sign a contract. Ask yourself why the 10 months contract hasn't been signed. Because it doesn't work overnight. That's hard. So you're talking about some kind of restructuring program. What is it, what is it without a signed contract? What does that mean? So, these days we need to sign a contract, we need to address in the interest of preserving jobs and production and knowledge and traditions, human technology. It does not go by force, nor does 6m euros get out or dollars from Brodosplit. A man should be obliged to work there, and the state helps with hundreds of millions of kunas. Where's that money going? It's going into production. We're working out those minute details of the contracts that you didn't deal with. It's you... made a restructuring programme, and the European Commission said it could. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then you left. And only after that is the job. If he was light, he'd be made for the first month. It's a privatized oil. No wonder. Look out, Oil Man, if he hadn't had state support, he'd be out here somewhere. They were something better and more responsible than others. Well done! We're saving May 3rd. I said here that I use the word "save" with pain, because it saves someone who's a problem, in deep trouble. And you who have gone cold, elegantly without any signed contract, without any paraphrasing with those who have to take over those shipyards here now you say we're not doing our job. Look, we're gonna do our job at this stage. I can neither guarantee that my government will last as long as its mandate, nor that the shipyards will be successful, profitable and that it will all be the same as it was. I don't know, but we're doing everything we can to keep production, to get it bought. You can't make someone buy it in a democratic state without offering him something. That's what we do. You didn't do it, and that's why I find your intervention unfair.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22094	Thank you very much. The next replica, the eighth and most respected representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22095	Thank you very much. I hope my replica won't be unfair. So, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, given the poor experience with the budget last year and given the poor macroeconomic indicators honestly speaking, I expected you as Prime Minister to be more concrete, more determined of the state budget. For the simple reason that none of your colleagues here in your speech could read clear indications of the economic policy your government is planning to lead next year. The second thing, definitely, is that without structural reforms, there is no reduction in the expenditure side of the budget. That's your best indicator in 2012. So, in 2013, you enter with a completely identical explanation, as time stands in the way of not being me in charge. Oh, no? With exactly the same explanation as last year. On the one hand, you expect to negotiate with the unions some pay cut, on the other hand you're talking about some big investment boom. However, none of these investments at the moment are even called a public tender for the contractors, so that there, for example, within 4.5 months, it starts spinning and has a concrete impact on economic growth in the following year. So we're all aware of the situation you're in and it's not controversial. However, when you talk about the deficit of the state budget, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, you are planning a 10 billion kuna deficit this year and the next two years. You forgot that in 2008, Croatia was in a thick primary surplus because the cost of interest was about 5 billion, and the deficit was 2 billion and 700, that was before the crisis. And in the end, do you always think that by increasing the revenue side, and do you really think that Croatian citizens can handle this much tax burden next year? No one has presented you with a clear fiscal capacity or Croatian citizens, and there is a problem with the 2013 budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22096	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica by Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22097	The fiscal burden did not increase overall, prove the opposite but is redistributed. The economy has been dispersed to a certain extent, and more contributions have been raised from the same economy than planned and VAT has been increased. It's a targeted measure. It can be bad, it can be antipathetic, but it's a targeted measure. But when you tell me it's until 2008. Croatia was in a thick surplus then tell me who the finance minister was from 2008 to 2011? What have you done on structural reforms? I stress structural reforms. At what cost were we in debt? What was the bond price? Why do we pay as much interest as we pay now? Those are questions that, at least I didn't even ask the question. So I didn't even ask you that question, I didn't even insist on it. Well, because you pretend like you weren't the finance minister. I'm surprised you're even asking that question. You owed the country several years in a row and the share of public debt in GDP grew steadily. He's over 50%. Well, it wasn't Slavko Linic. That's what you did. Are we putting you on the cross for that? We don't object or have those powers, and we don't do that. But that's what we have to tell you. So that's because you ran away from the problem. We're the first government, and you're wondering how the budget was cut last year. The first government to cut the budget. It's traumatic. As the European budget today is seven years smaller than any one before. And of course it's drama, of course it's not easy, of course no one wants to apply to it. So, I boast of some major structural reforms, but the changes yes, in order to. And you've been running finances since 2008 practically to the end. You didn't quite finish, but in that last year, we acted like there was no crisis, as if the economy hadn't dropped as much as it had fallen into the aggregate. You just ignored that fact. What were you supposed to do? I don't know, here's what we're trying to do. You didn't do anything, there were no structural reforms. Tell me what you've been doing structurally, you'll have a chance. I'm not saying, I didn't tell you not to know, I'm telling you that you didn't do it, you didn't want it because it was too risky for you. And now we have no choice.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22098	Thank you very much. ... Please. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Please, Your Honor, we're not in favor of a pass. We're in order, please. The next ninth replica and respected representative Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22099	Thank you very much. Dear Prime Minister, you said, among other things, in your presentation of economic growth, we understood for granted that although we planned GDP for 0.8%, some analysts also say 1.2% of what happens to others in our environment. But, Mr. President, you forget or do not want to accept the fact that everything that does not need growth, unemployment, taxes, contributions, energy prices, communals, food, books, medicines, transportation. And everything that shouldn't fall is GDP, investment, wages, employment. I'm sorry to have to tell you this, but it's really true if you're listening to any citizens, which is that the country collectively falls into depression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22100	Thank you, too. And the answer to the replica? No, I don't. Thank you very much. Let's move on with the replicas. It is now up to the respected representative Gordan Jandrokovic to present Minister of Finance Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22101	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I would also refer to the presentation of the Minister of Finance and, in part, to the presentation of the Prime Minister because they spoke of the like in a different way [[Intruder Shucker: Please refer to Linic. So Linic spoke similarly to Milanovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22102	Please, you've reported a replica to the Minister of Finance. Is it? I'm begging you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22103	I don't think you should keep so many prime ministers, he knows how to defend himself, so I'll say what I want to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22104	How are you, Mr. Representative? Are you all right?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22105	And you?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22106	Yes, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22107	Are you all right? I'd love to. I would like you to keep an eye on the opposition representatives as well as representatives of the ruling coalition and be objective. [[Intruder Shucker: Something with time is wrong.]] So, I have two data that prompted me to my replica. One is a 1.8% growth announced by the government next year. This is growth that has not announced or predicted any relevant international and domestic institutions, although the European Commission forecasts a 0% growth, the IMF growth of 0.75%. So I'm curious about what the government thinks growth is going to be 1.8%, what are the data, what are the hopes that cause such a prognosis? The other thing is the investments spoken of by the Deputy Prime Minister and the finance minister. I don't know if he's familiar with the fact that among foreign investors there's a lot of anxiety and frustration about what's going on in Croatia when it comes to legal security and security in the adoption of tax regulations? Many of them are waiting I'm begging you because we lost our first time on your intervention. [[Intruder Leko: Thank you.]] So many of them don't want to invest. Those who are here don't do any new jobs because they're not happy with what's going on right now in the part that you're controlling, Mr. Finance Minister. And I'm curious about what big investment from the government portfolio is, and what are the investments you expect from the private sector?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22108	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, Honored Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22109	Very briefly, on the basis of your opinion of the investor rating, then I must say, as Minister, I am visiting the embassy and the embassy. The latest meeting with the embassies of Germany, Austria, Switzerland numbers about 150 investors. Everyone supported the government in their market discipline programme in Croatia, control of the loyal game and end of the unfair match. They've all given their support. Obviously, we have different informants. But, official informers, embassies, are very clear that we accept a responsible Croatian state that will put the tax system into office of the economy and guarantee their safety on the Croatian market. It's the current evaluation of many embassies, but we'll hear more about it. When we talk about economic growth, that's the government's optimism, that's the government's battle for new jobs. And the government is basically sending a clear message we're going to fight for the competitiveness of the economy but we expect from you not to extract profits, we expect you to invest in modernization, preserve jobs and in new investments. And also in very difficult trouble, the government has spent the last six months of structural changes in the Railways, the Roads, arranged everything regarding Water, changing behavior in the Woods, and all for the simple reason that we have the greatest results. Not to put them in the budget because we lack the money, but that these companies may be in debt with their capital and finally start to invest. And it's safe to think about the big moves of HEP in part of the construction of electricity production, we're going to bet that INA invests in refineries, invests in wells. Yeah, it's huge investments. And also that the new investor who entered the airport starts with investments in the airport. Just so we can see that optimism isn't unrealistic, it's real.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22110	Thank you very much. The next replica and respected representative of Đurjica Sumrak. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22111	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So I must refer my replica to Mr Linic, as Minister Jakovina, Minister of Agriculture, whose sector is the most damaged is gone. Perhaps Mr. Jakovina does not have the political power to fight for a larger budget relating to the future of agriculture and villages in Croatia. I must say, Mr. Linic, you were talking about the competitiveness that 230 thousand OPGs are registered in Croatia, if we multiply that by only two members, then we get about 500 thousand people who produce food for themselves, but they also produce food for the market. The government of the former HDZ government when it closed chapters 11, 12 and 13 voted in the agriculture sector of a very large benefit. This year in reality, too, was supposed to be a test year. With this policy instead of approaching financial envelopes, we are ruining agriculture and farmers in Croatia. Here I also do not want to and I do not want to say that this is an anti-Croatian budget, but I argue that this is a budget against Croatian peasants and a budget against Croatian farmers. Mr. Linic, why couldn't it have been avoided in this budget for agriculture to be the most damaged? Is it true in your program where you stated that agriculture is the primary, most important you said the sector that you're going to support today you show that it's something completely different, that it's in the last place and that you don't care. 'Cause how are they gonna...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22112	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, respected Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22113	... It's obvious we have two different approaches. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Access to the former authorities, individual subsidy payments, subsidies. And that means you're uncompetitive, you have losses, you have risks, and those risks we're giving you money on your hand. That's what Mr. Zoran Milanovic's government says differently. We will not pay off our hands, we will create conditions for you to have competitiveness and for subsidies to be very comparable to European farmers. So this is why in this next 2013 we have the investment of Croatian waters, we have a completely different land policy, we will have a completely different policy of ensuring crops, harvests and everything else. Therefore, incentives go well, not to pay individuals but simply to pay everything they need to be successful and not to have such large subsidies. Yeah, uh... That's what we're different about. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Your policy is to pay for the individual, and that's the drought, the rain, and anything else that didn't secure the crops takes away all the summer so we worry about how to now cover the losses that have been made that's the difference. That's what makes us so different. We're completely different. Therefore, agriculture will have far more investment than the individual payments that you have become accustomed to and which are basically the reason that we have an enormous import of food that we do not have competitive food and that we have problems that we have to approve quotas because there is not enough production for the domestic market either. That's where these two policies differ, and you'll see a much bigger result in a year. And just one note, with a 3% deficit, we won't withdraw any kuna from Europe, and then still think about that cash payout policy being your solution. It's not the government's solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22114	Thank you very much, Minister. The next replica is Honorable Representative Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22115	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, this presentation of the budget shows that one more opportunity has been missed, and this is an opportunity for this to be a turning budget in economic policy. Instead, we have one extension of the model that growth is based on or is trying to achieve it primarily on state consumption, and structural reforms are being delayed. And because of this, I fear that instead of turning around, this will be the budget of the continuity of the decline, the number of jobs is falling, the standards of Croatian citizens are falling. Another problem also in those positive elements, and there are also in this proposal is the incompetence of the government in implementing such moves. EU funds are also mentioned in the area of agriculture, so I will mention another very concrete example of this incompetence. In order to be able to withdraw those funds, it is necessary to accredit the Agency for Direct Payments in Agriculture, and this has been warned by the Commission in its 10th Listopada report. A day later, 11 June, the Government makes it difficult to change the rules that make accreditation more difficult because it amends the rules of the Agricultural Aid Act. It is declared of course not by our vote in the Croatian Parliament and now the government has seen the mistake and must change it again but we lost two months. This incompetence is something that must be discussed more seriously here because I said and last time I will repeat incompetence is indeed one devastating phenomenon as corruption because it steals hope for the Croatian people tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22116	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the respected minister, Mr. Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22117	1.8% of economic growth is not just a figure written to make it look nice but it means many of the measures facing structural changes in state-owned companies, facing the financial consolidation of the private sector and facing the competitiveness of the private sector, which is why we had further reduction in parafiscal burdens. This is a very clear message from the government that we want to significantly reduce the health contribution in order to reduce the gross labour price and leave these private economies competitive. After that, we sought to provide sufficient financial resources to monitor and ensure any activity whether it was financing current production or investment and we tried to reduce the interest we found in 2011. It's all done. The biggest problem is total liquidity and insolvency of companies. For six months, we have fought and managed even in this House to agree unanimously that the Act on Pre-bank settlements is an active measure where the entire government, all ministries, will sit together with every entrepreneur, with their banks, with their debtors and finances to try to strengthen their capital so that with stronger capital they can re-indemnify to start investing. All this has been done, there are ongoing activities, over 120 serious firms have already submitted a request for financial restructuring at the moment and where continuous contacts with both HUP and HUB are with banks. Therefore, the direct engagement of the entire government in the training of the private sector, and in the last 6 months we are restructured every company essential to infrastructure and production in the Republic of Croatia, and in particular energy. These are all moves that say that, finally, in the coming year, it is very serious and private and state-run sectors that can go into business rather than their internal problems because the government is committed to handling it. And that's why we're talking about not being...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22118	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22119	Dear Mr. Minister, by analysing in particular this item of income of €113.6 billion, the expenditure item itself, and the deficit which is greater than planned last year for a billion kuna and is practically equal to the rebalancing rate, with interest in mind and interest, but by analysing the specific income item, it is evident that there is nothing in this budget of the announced fiscal decentralisation. So again, everything goes to the full centralisation of the budget, the centralisation of revenues going to the state budget. Again with this budget, units of local self-government have been neglected and there is no, there is no visible model of performance either a gradual or a systematic model of promised fiscal decentralisation. I know it may be funny to someone, but many local self-government units have been brought into a very difficult and serious situation. On the other hand, all these years are systematically aided and rehabilitated shipbuilding in Croatia. I have nothing against it, on the contrary, to help that branch survive, but with such statements that there was no control in that incentive system, there may not have been, but that's why there are other services, not budget cuts. In the same way we ask to help Croatian agriculture, especially agriculture in Slavonia and Baranja. Analyzing the budget again, Slavonia and Baranja turns out to be the 13th pig. If you don't know what the 13th pig is, it's the one that doesn't get to the tit because the sow only has 12 tits. So Slavonia and this budget have become the 13th pig again. And I wouldn't want what happened again in 2003 when the first Deputy Prime Minister said we'd remember Slavonia and Baranja in the next term. So here's the next term, remember this budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22120	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, the respected finance minister, Mr. Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22121	Mr. Representative, we have noted that government policy is how to maintain a deficit of 3% of GDP and to cover expenditures that have inevitably increased in 2013. Therefore, we will have all the expansion through out-of- budget institutions and only to note that Croatia leads to 3 billion kuna investments in 2013 are the ones that provide a billion for Slavonia, 1/3. In that part if you estimate that it is not enough yet to make even at the time of the amendments in this part. So try to understand, investments and investments will be in that part. For the next time I will bring you, here I have documents on the investments of Croatian Waters and Croatian Roads as well as Croatian Roads which are now heading towards Slavonia. Therefore, you will see in extra budget that Slavonia is not forgotten.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22122	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22123	Dear Minister Linic, one question these days is asked by citizens, which is why VAT on books, on bread, on medicines, on professional magazines and on cinema tickets from 1.1., not from 1.7. when we enter the European Union. And the next question is to actually comment on why Croatia introduces VAT on these 5% items when we know that some countries in the European Union also have a zero VAT rate on food and that some countries in the European Union have a lower VAT of 5%.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22124	Thank you very much. Replication response, Minister of Honor, Mr. Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22125	We introduce 5% rate on these products for the reason we want to round the fiscal year, because we also reduce the hospitality from 25 to 10, and at the same time we want to have clear control throughout the year, not a change in the rate within the year. That's one thing. Secondly, as regards the five percentage rates, this is something agreed in the Treaty with the European Union and our membership in the European Union, that the zero rate on these products cannot be and that the minimum rate on these products is 5%. Therefore, it is the direct consequence of the signed contracts.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22126	Thank you very much. The last sixth replica for Mr. Minister and respected representative Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22127	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My replica is addressed to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia I picked up in those half-hours when they were talking, and it doesn't matter. [[The Incursion President: Your Honored Representative, you have raised the line to the Minister of Finance.]] But they spoke together as promoters. [[The incursion president: Allow the board to rise to the presentation of the Minister of Finance.]] I was waiting for it to end, so I picked up the line thinking I could I don't know what article I can't do for the premiere. [[Intruder President: I ask you nicely, then you could lift up at the beginning and tell me I have the promoters.]] So, today we are discussing a strategic document that will direct the economic development of the Republic over the next year, and it means that, through this document, we will either make it clear through this document that we should have made it clear to the citizens that you will live better, both the same and the worse. [[Intruder: Focus on what you have raised.]] I have waited with care for your address to the Croatian Assembly and expected to find in your speech a dose of optimism, but not a dose of optimism without coverage, that you will say here three characteristics of this budget are these and these. If we need to give it up, we'll give it up so we can get better then and then. If one budget aims at economic growth, preserving employment, or strengthening jobs, one of the objectives of the budget is also to strengthen the domestic and international position of the company. And let's say that this third goal is fulfilled. But then you said that this budget was made by one inert as well as the budget of the previous year, and because of the budget of this year, we have negative economic growth, a decline in industrial production, a decline in personal consumption and an increase in unemployment. And this is one of my fault messages today when Croatian citizens need this dose of optimism, but I agree with you what you said in your exposure to real optimism. And what we base economic growth on at 1.8% is domestic companies. Let us not forget that they had to serve 7.2 billion kuna in debt this year. How? Such overindebted companies with new tax burdens can be a guarantee of the economic growth you announced through this budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22128	Before I ask the Minister, I'll read you the Rules of Procedure, so there's no misunderstanding. The Chair shall give the representatives a word in the order they have applied for. Regardless of the order in question, a representative may be given the floor when he wishes to respond to the presentation, to the addressee and not to the representative of the motionor or the Government. Please appreciate that. Dear Minister Slavko Linic and a reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22129	Answer what? Obviously, we speak with a language that we do not understand or in a language that we do not understand. The Croatian government in 2012 assured the Croatian economy that two reprogrammes do not have to pay their former debts, 50 billion kunas of outstanding claims. We gave them a chance to reprogram them twice. We're also now on our way to a pre-fashion deal to turn debts into their strength, not our own bill. At the same time, along with the governor, business banks secured six and a half billion kuna for current business, even for a craftsman's share of the economy so that they could pay their suppliers. So those other manufacturing sectors, other companies, we help them, too. Most of it was spent on bank service. Therefore, the conditions for the economy in that part were made. Two index points down, labour costs down, and we always say big companies are important. Yeah, they're all incentives for the economy. At the same time, contributions for forests, water and monumental rent have been reduced. Yes, these are the denials and investments in that economy, that they try to survive on the market, not to shut down their activities. It was the government's policy to point everything at this. When we went to raise electricity prices, the economy didn't rise, it didn't. At the same time, the government is now fighting a battle for a cheaper price of gas and ensuring new quantities with almost kuna per cubic metre less. Yeah, that's the part where the government fights.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22130	Thank you. Thank you very much. We've exhausted all the replicas and answers to the replica. Do the representatives of the working bodies, the committees want to take part in the debate? No, I don't. I don't think so. Before we move on to the debate, before I open the debate, I'll repeat it once more. The deadline for the amendment is Wednesday 28.11. to 16:00 hours. Thank you very much. Second thing I want to do is make a deal, too. For now, we have registered 8 club representatives in the Croatian Parliament and 41 representatives in the Croatian Parliament. That would be a net debate sometime nine hours without a replica and a reply to a replica, which is fine. But I suggest we don't have a break. Let's go into continuum and discuss it. I am now opening a debate and we are going to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is now the first in line for the HDZ Representatives' Club and respected representative Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22131	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Prime Minister, Vice-President, Minister. We, Mr. Prime Minister, agreed in these replicas that on the international market in which Croatia must compete, that in the international capital market where its internal specificities must remain, they are not worth it and that some of our specialities, which we are counting on here, are not actually worth fighting in international competition. So if we've actually agreed on that, then it seems to me that this budget in front of us shows that the fiscal consolidation process, the stabilisation of public finances, the stabilisation of public debt still doesn't seem to be right. In fact, the budget we have ahead of us changes the direction of fiscal policy and brings about an expansion of fiscal imbalances. Brings an expansion of deficits, brings growth to the need for borrowing. This conclusion also remains, when we take into account these famous specificities in 2013, which are being transferred to the European budget. It's really about the new expenditure, the expenditure that hasn't been up until now, so let's take that into account. However, when we look at the deficits of the state budget and look at the deficits of the extra budget funds because the extra budget funds are not something that remains outside the fiscal picture then we see that in 2013, 1.5 billion kunas are planned to increase the deficit on the one that we have already increased this morning with the billion kuna of today's rebalancing that we have adopted. So this budget compared to the original, original government fiscal plans presented in this House, not ten months ago, brings about the relaxation of fiscal consolidation for 2.5 billion kuna. This is not a small amount and marks a change in direction, indicating the tendency to reduce fiscal imbalances that will be achieved in 2012 in the first order due to an increase in tax burden will not be continued. And even if there were no interest and interest rates were zero, it wouldn't be in balance, but it would still be down by 1% of GDP, 3.5 billion kuna if there wasn't a single kuna of interest. The primary deficit of the consolidated central state of the so-called budgets and funds are about 1% of GDP. Much more than the transfer to the EU. Although this may be marked in a certain way by a political surprise, but those who follow the budget and follow the economic policy, I think it is no surprise because economic policy has proved to be the most taxed over the past year, and has avoided opening up issues that determine the level of expenditure and speed of their work. This budget, therefore, also reveals this problem or error in the direction of economic policy. Instead of focusing on expenditure, instead of focusing on the launch of structural reforms that would permanently remove pressures on expenditure growth in some relevant categories, economic policy has been directed to the tax side. One-time effects in reducing deficits were achieved in 2012, but these effects cannot be sustained permanently. They cannot be maintained permanently because the year-round impact on the tax drums has contributed to a stronger drop in economic activity than would be necessary and rather than putting bad opportunities in Europe. Indeed, there was a reduction in the contribution to health insurance, but the effects of the increase in VAT on consumption, the decline in sales, and thus the decline in company income were much faster, much stronger and the reduction in health insurance contributions actually ended as a welcome cost relaxation due to the decline in sales and decline in income. On the other hand, there's no growth. As optimistic as economic projections are, on paper it's all going, the trends we see don't encourage. Therefore, on the side of the growth budget, not much help is coming. And there is no growth among other things because it has failed to deal with the dissipating side. The first year of office's strategic opportunity to open difficult issues related to everything financed by the spending party has been missed. In this way it was missed to create a space in which new expenditures could be included that were known to be coming. Expenditure related to the EU transfer, expenditure related to co-financing of European projects. These expenditures will grow in 2013, and only in years behind them because without co-financing there will be no use of EU funds. It was also known for interest rates, a trend in interest growth has been present for a number of years. Among other things, the Law on fiscal responsibility has been adopted in order to law and encourage the implementation of structural reforms in a certain way. However, this strategic opportunity has been missed, at least for the time being, and therefore we have a budget where the deficit is growing, in which expenditures for not having 4.2 billion in the budget and a total of 5 when extra budget funds are added, and in order to maintain this requires a reduction in the amount of wages of 2.5 billion or slightly more than 8%, so I think it's time to talk about this reduction in the wage mass because this example shows how much the government underestimated the complexity and seriousness of budgetary problems. In fact, when last year's planning was to lower the wage mass by 1.8 billion kuna, easy explanations were given that this would be done by firing those working on a contract at work, so it turned out that there were not so many. Then it was said that those who work and meet the conditions of retirement would be sent into retirement, and there was no such retirement. All together last year's savings are about 272 million kuna plus something else in health care just as much as savings from reducing the cost of health contributions. Now we have a savings plan again, but we don't know how that plan will be implemented. Possible reduction in coefficients. But didn't the time come for the reward system to radically change that it simply says this mass of wages we can't bear but the present reward system is also complicated, not worthy of work and demoting it. So isn't it time to approach the construction of a new award system, to install in it mechanisms that will value work, pawnage, responsibility, and punishment for unhappiness. This is what we mean by structural reform, which is what we mean by change when we say that we need to deal with the dissipating side of the budget, and a by-product of this kind of reform could be more interested in both the faster and the state and local self-government that will contribute to reducing investment barriers and will stop being an obstacle to investment and investors. We expect such changes and talk about such changes. Savings is obviously reality tells us that it is necessary but it opens up an opportunity to solve things in a better way. I'm sure the unions wouldn't mind working-worthy solutions, and they're punishing the mess. But we don't have such suggestions today. The next year he's at the door, so if the mass is paid by linear reductions in coefficients, what happens? It'll be a financial savings, but the best one will go, and then we'll wonder why the administration is slow, why the administrative barriers are high, why teachers are uninterested. However, we do not have such proposals and such changes and therefore there is no room to fit new expenditures and therefore the budget is growing, and fiscal policy has been forced to change direction. I could lower these examples even further, and the health care facilities will be rescinded. I don't know which way the state will re-pay healthcare debts, but it will become new because there are no substantial changes in how to finance and how to provide health services. So let's not fool ourselves that healthcare debts are only the result of the director's inability to dig into the limit. The consequences are that medical procedures are increasingly diverse, more expensive and the population is getting older. So the possible system needs to be laid on some other basis. The health budget is only closed because prescriptions in this year decrease, i.e. 270 million in 2013 in order to rise 300 million again in 2014. And how is that going to happen? There are no such measures here and they are not proposed. As a result, and despite these budgetary frameworks, there is a questionnaire above some paragraphs. The result is an increase in budget deficits to 10 billion, a consolidated central state to 13 and remains at that level for the next three years. objectively, it's a major deficit, which is a deficit that the debt requirements of each year raises more than 26 billion kunas even assuming privatisation is achieved. The three-year projection this budget does not give direction, does not indicate how and how Croatia would enter the zone of much lower deficits and much lower fiscal imbalances. Therefore, this fiscal picture that this budget is sent to space and to the market on which Croatia is measured and in which Croatia competes badly and will be seen by international institutions and rating agencies, and also in the country is obviously very dissatisfied. And ultimately a fiscal rule. The fiscal rule was introduced by the Fiscal Responsibility Act and required that the share of expenditure in GDP be reduced by one structural point each year. It was introduced just to ensure an additional motive to create a space for including these new expenditures that many have talked about today. We here have about 90% of the public sector to which the fiscal rule applies. And we can quite accurately assess whether it's being fulfilled. When the planned expenditure of the budget of the extra-financial funds is reduced for the amount of EU funding and co-financing, there is no planned reduction in the share of expenditure in GDP. It remains unchanged, and as we know it should be respected even when it does not suit us. I was in a rule-fulfilment analysis and I wanted to be favored by the government and the objectively complex situation it was facing, so if, out of meeting the rules, the EU's transfers remain 0.5% of GDP again. The proposed budget and the plans of the extra-financial funds are therefore contrary to the Fiscal Responsibility Act and this means that, again, the same law should restore this budget to completion and rebalancing before it is adopted. The HDZ Club will therefore not support this budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22132	Thank you, too, Your Honor. The first replica of the respected representative Gordana Jandroković has been reported to your presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22133	I thank you, Mr. President. Mrs. Dalic, dear colleagues, you have looked back on the unrealistic assessment of GDP growth, so growth is projected to be 1.8% of GDP. The finance minister prevents this from spreading optimism, that this is an optimistic assessment, although the relevant institutions estimate zero growth, i.e. slightly up to 0.75%. Why is it important to point to this information? GDP growth is the basic data from which we read what revenue is possible. Everything that goes beyond what is estimated by growth is simply not real. I guess that's why it was going to blow up growth to justify income. However, this should be mentioned at this point, as last year the government also went with a growth of 0.8% optimistic. We ended the end of the year probably with a decline of 1.5% to 1.9%, so this guilty assessment will be more than 2.5% and for the government that calls itself responsible and serious is not something that goes into it. Trends are bad. I stand by what I said to Minister Linic, perhaps we are talking to different people, with people who see the reality of the Croatian economy differently, but the fact is that the figures are not positive and I don't understand why we are going back unreal again with such a high assessment of growth. Whether the government simply does not want to admit what everyone around it sees, whether it hopes for a magical turn or simply manipulates numbers. But this time, unlike in 2012, when the government could appeal to the legacy of the predecessor, this time that decision is fully informed, you are in power for a year, and I hope that if you fail at the end of 2013 you will take full responsibility for such misbehaving...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22134	Thank you very much. All of this will be answered by the esteemed representative Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22135	Thank you very much. So on growth issues for 2013 there were many words in public and a good part of the arguments that you mentioned was already presented. However, what is particularly important is how realistic the assumptions on which the assessment of growth is based, whether it is 1.8, 1.5 or 1.2. But with the government's growth projection, the particular problem is that it is based on very unrealistic assumptions, based on assumptions that private spending will grow in conditions when announced and persistently insists on introducing a property tax. The very announcement of this tax has already produced many negative effects on the movement of economic activity, consumption, trust, investment and consumer expectations. Persistent insistence on it will certainly produce many other negative effects. The best way to do so would be if the government wanted its projections to be realised, it would be best to withdraw and close any debate on property tax at the moment. The government also expects 11.5% of investment growth, relying on state investment. The government forgets that state investments can give even some positive economic results in the short term but lead to debt. On the other hand, although we would like these investments to be realised, we are now at the end of the 11th month and we do not see any of these investments moving. Next year's here.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22136	Thank you very much. Second replica and respected representative Dragica Zgrebec, vice president of the Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22137	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Dalic, you have made excellent note of the problems in Croatian society and the Croatian economy, but unfortunately this observation of yours came too late, where luck came a few years earlier and in those years when you were Minister of Finance and that you thus proposed budgets. And when you talk about financial balance, or imbalance, the fact is that when we look at it together, it's 2.5 billion more deficits, but if we go to analyze it, factor it out and see its structure, then it's a billion and 700 million shares that we're going to participate in the European budget. It is 900 million kuna for the restructuring of the shipbuilding that we have persistently pointed out for years that the guarantees given by the shipbuilding will sooner or later come toll and that it will constitute a deficit. So that's true, we're facing facts that you didn't even want to talk about in your own time, and this 1% of out-of- budget users who go into the deficit are only for investments and I'm never afraid of the deficit that will end up in investments. The worst deficits end up in consumption. And when we go to see only those crisis years, so start or end of 2008 when our total debt was 39% of GDP to end it in 2011, when you said we were getting out of the crisis a little bit to 47% of GDP. So it would have been good if these were the observations that you were able to make.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22138	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22139	As for... the deficit you must know the distinguished Zgrebec MPs that all Croatian deficits ended up in investments. That's the first picture you see from these numbers. All Croatian deficits ended up in investments and I never heard anyone come and said I don't want to build this or I don't want to build it. We have a debt today. This is the result of state investment. I've also never heard representatives say the city of Rijeka came and said don't give a guarantee on May 3rd. On the contrary. The city wanted to be alone. Therefore, in the story of Croatian development and the story of the Croatian development model there are many different voices, there are many different opinions and there have been many different proposals. And I think it's a trait of both left and right political elite, we all believed in the power of state investment. And that's why we're on this side here so much that we're warning because that development model we've tried, that development model we've tried, we've achieved the undeniable results and the highways are here and the roads and the ports and there's going to be both hydro power plants and thermal power plants but it leads to debt. It is also necessary to focus on what will not generate debt, focus on the private sector as well. It is necessary to learn from other people's experiences.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22140	Thank you very much. Third replica and respected representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22141	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, you mentioned at one point how and on the spending side, there must be more savings. And that's so good to look at a little bit by the divisions of individual ministries. I'm not an economist, but it's interesting to look at, say, an increase in staff expenditure in the Office of the Prime Minister and in the Ministry of Finance itself where this increase in staff expenditure is even stated that as much as 28% of which for gross wages is 30.2%. And especially interesting is the division of the Ministry of Economy. We welcome the fact that for this division there is a 586% increase, but on the 108 pages of this argument we find something new that we haven't had so far. This is another agency, the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness, for which a total of 18 million kuna is foreseen, and of which, for the administration and management of that agency, 13 million and 816000 kuna. So we get a new agency that should, if I understand correctly, encourage the economy, and only the wages will go to 76.8% of those who will work in that agency. How much money will be left just to encourage the economy I'm not sure? This is just one, two, three examples on the expense side and the possibility of spending being reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22142	Thank you very much. There's no response to the replica. The Honorable President of the Croatian Government on behalf of the promoter. Here you go, my dear.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22143	I'll share time with the Minister of Finance. Dear colleagues, I greatly appreciate your banking profession and I know how much school and work it takes. I have a lot of friends, I have a few friends who are in that sector. But politics is something else. Even we lay low under pressure from events and times, participating daily and every month in discussions in both Zagreb and Europe, which are mostly of financial nature, we learn something, and there is an interest in it from before but I am not educated for it. You spoke here as bankers, as analysts, as a micro budget manager and with observations of which to stand. But I haven't heard a single solution except for the reward system and that it's time for things to change and that the old ones can't anymore and that there are left and right stereotypes and that you think that way, and you don't actually belong to this side or that side. You're a pro and a banker and that's what you're talking about. This is how the budget can be drawn up in the advisory phase. But when they make final decisions, they can't. Now, we need concrete things. We're talking about commitments. In 2000, when we talk about what was inherited, a contract was signed in 2009 with trade unions on the harmonisation of salaries that enter into force on 1.1.2013, 2009. So, in the year of the fall of 6%, someone took that commitment. Serious guys. In 2011, within 12 months, arbitration strengthened this, and it is now in effect. What do we do with that in light of the story of the fiscal rule? Do you have any advice? If that advice fits into what you're just saying. Is that what you mean? Who's supposed to turn out like a bad guy to the unions here? It's at least reckless behavior. That's the facts. And it can't be that much worse by the facts. It's said you're talking about work and investment. Well, you don't believe that anything was left in the prepared form to begin in these years, so I guess we wouldn't sabotage it. We'd go out there and we'd get all wet with other people's feathers, and we'd make a big deal out of it. There's nothing! There is no such investment in the public sector because they are not prepared. What happened to Plomin? Shipbuilding? So what do you think we've been doing for a year? Wouldn't we sign that contract as soon as we were irresponsible to public finances and made any commitment? We're not gonna do that. So, do it. And when I was talking about a linear way of making, that is, an inert way of making, of putting together a budget. In fact, self-inflicted inert isn't a bad thing. Let's say the earth moves by cosmic inerts, celestial bodies. Sometimes it means life, lifestyle. But sometimes even a little liveliness and disorder should be brought into it. So there's some stereotypes in budgeting. It was about health care. If the state were to guarantee its authority the timely fulfilment of obligations to, for example, the biggest drug suppliers, if they did not have to, because of the delay in the charge of hundreds of days, be obliged to bridge it and collect the whole process, if the state were behind it, then not only would we not have to increase the costs of the drugs by 5% due to VAT growth from 0 to 5% but we as good negotiators could fight for less, because we know that, and that's the case. But that kind of thing wasn't taken care of enough. And there are a number of other examples. The fiscal rule, you correct me but I don't know who mentioned it before me in this House in 2008 or 2009, long before, inspired by the experience of some other states at the very beginning of the financial crisis. That's you, that law was passed here in the Parliament in the face of a financial crisis. It's a very rigorous and strict rule and who needs to implement it, and that liked this government, life is hard. How can I say that? Maybe it's not bad, but it's hard. You understand? As the N2 rule for European funds is harder than M3 rules. The M3 rule gives you a year more, it's more comfortable, you're more relaxed. The N2 rule is pressing you, asking you to realise the project as responsible politicians and managers in a shorter period of time. There are arguments for both. So if there were public sector projects they'd already been as they say ready for the shovel, show ready. No, they're gone, they'll be next year. That's no borrowing. In particular, investments in energy are not borrowing, it's profit, it's money. Investments in ports, in container terminals in LNG is not borrowing, it's money. It is pure money to say for Croatia. And that kind of thing doesn't have much, but there are a few that are our specificities, which are our not comparative but competitive advantage. The comparative advantage takes advantage of China by its size while it can, while their wages are low. In five years, he won't be able to do it anymore. But the Croatian position will remain constant and will always need someone to benefit from this with us. And that's what we're working on, you can't see it overnight. You should see it next year. I'm asking for correctness, so don't apply to the fiscal rule. Obligations to the public sector and unions have been made, and this will cost us a billion and 600 million kuna next year. That's a lot of money, we didn't take it, and the commitment was first made in the year of economic collapse in 2009. And who was the optimist at the time to make such an anticipation? It's not serious. And what did this politically result in? Nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22144	Thank you very much. Minister of Finance, Honorable Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22145	Thank you, Mr. President. Maybe when we talk about state investment in energy, they go according to the private-public partnership model when it comes to production, then it's not loans, then it's... An investor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As you can see, we've got them on Plomin. Also when we talk about investment in hotels we also think it should be with partners, that it should be a model of privatisation. So let's not just be afraid of these procedures and investments. And now I'd just like a few minutes on the fiscal rule. Because obviously, in fiscal terms, we don't want to talk openly. So when we talk about the fiscal rule then I want to make it clear in Croatia we have salaries, we have a health system, social system and pensions. And Croatia's biggest problem will be the next 10 years of retirement, where we have millions and 220 thousand pensioners with only 10, 12% of pensioners with full pension. With an average retirement age of 51 years. We're giving out 35 billion kuna. Average pensions below standard or I would say living conditions, not enough, the poor simply create that circle of citizens who are hard to live. We can't touch them, we can't even touch their rights, and we're making 16 billion out of contributions. We're paying 19 billion in VAT. At 35 billion, were we supposed to be saving here? Should we have suspended the formula for harmonising or harmonising with the cost of life and others? Should we have cut them down? Yeah, the pressures are to cut pensions, and this government says they won't cut it. That's why we've accepted and we're going to cut wages because that's where we can get understanding with our social partners. We negotiate this, the agreements are almost over and sure that the effects in the second year after these negotiations will be visible. You're talking about social welfare, no, we're under the impression that in social terms, we're changing giving towards property censorship, but we're not reducing them because unfortunately the poor are too much. We can't change that much either. In the health system? Reforms are unequivocal. And that there will be rationality, and that's why we started with the Law on Restitution of Institutions where we're going to try to take responsibility for the management of a system that was completely disorganized, which created dubiosis, which 5 billion has debts because it's not paid within the time limits that should be paid. Yeah, it's about places where you can cut it. The government said at this point we're choosing that part. And when we talk about the fiscal rule, it's not just a billion and 700 million that you say new payment costs in the EU, we also have 700 million write-offs for HANDA for the reason we care about this economy, so we didn't want to raise the cost of diesel fuel, but we said we're going by a different calculation and by showing HANDA's revenues as a excise system so we don't create new costs at higher prices. Yes, 700 million is a new cost we have never seen before, and we also have similar transfers to Croatian roads. These are the specifics someone needed when he wrote the rule to the government. So that's what the government is going to do and try to follow the rule that the rule says so we adopted, the larger the recession is about saving which is a simple and unreasonable rule.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22146	Thank you very much. We're on our way to replication. At the presentation of the Prime Minister, we have 8 replicas, of Minister of Finance 4. The first replica of Domagoj Ivan Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22147	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Prime Minister, you are aware today that you have been operating Croatia for longer than I have been Deputy Prime Minister for Investments. However, I will not remind you of the Luke of RIJEK, who after 20 years of spending ready started building last year to Luke Dubrovnik, from Plinacro, Janaf to the prepared Brijuni Riviera. The best confirmation of how inefficient you are is actually the Zagreb Airport. At the beginning of the term of office you signed a contract for Zagreb Airport if I am not mistaken since 9 months there is nothing. What we should all agree on, and this is especially at a time of crisis that the staffing and replacement of all levels of management in public enterprises actually was the moment you said nothing would happen even though you announced public investment in the Republic of Croatia. But let's just keep talking about public investment, let's talk about private investments, that's what the government has been dealing with intensively since 2010, there's an action plan to remove obstacles to investors that you've abolished, I don't know why. You often like to talk about consensus on smart things and action plan to remove barriers to investors means for the first time that someone has admitted weaknesses from their system and that they have begun to remove it, there is no more. And the international investment forum is gone. Here I could do a lot more of the Committee on Investments with the Government is gone, let's stop talking about investments all the time, let's do some real work and let's help the Croatian economy survive and then actually make economic growth eventually. So public companies and their investments aren't just gonna save our country like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22148	The reply to the replica of Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22149	You know the good thing about removing an incorrect quote is that it's no longer on that empty gun two are afraid. Now we've both got guns full of guns. We don't shoot a man, but you can hear it. So I can react to everything you say and I don't have to. But I'm going to react to a Rijeka port that, after 8 years of HDZ authorities, about 160 thousand container units per container terminal. That's pathetic. It is incomparably less than Copra and from Trieste it is simply humiliating for Croatia. So these are the results of the work. The Zagreb coast has yet to be put into operation. The railroad that I'm not talking about Krk, so it's not started. It's not fair to mention it, it's not fair. So there's nothing going on. So our goal is and part of it is the River-Zagreb-Botovo railroad to be a serious powerful thing. And my government's goal is that in three years if we wait for the end of the term of office, and I believe that we will, but I cannot categorically argue, we are doing business in Croatia that, by doing business criteria to grow by a few dozen places, we will not reach the world summit. That's the government's goal. So it's an operational political goal in progress. Zagreb Airport, well, that's not fair to mention. So the offerer you chose who was obviously the best we've exonerated, continued the process. You know that preparations take months, you know that you did read the contract, did you even know what you were signing? So it's been a relatively short time these partners have to find investors they have to find partners and it's just ending. So something that has not been done for 20 years Zagreb has a neat small but probably one of the oldest airports for the city of that size in Europe, so you would now make it in half a year. But I hope you won't be infuriated when the thing starts, and she's practically on the move and completely according to the dynamics of a contract like your government and you started preparing, and we took it over but it's far from done. And in fact, there are a lot of things that depend on the partner and not us. According to what we know, things are going in the right direction, so your examples are bad. The port of Rijeka is a bad example she has neglected for 8 years. Why is there a container terminal of 160 grand... and Koper has 400 grand, and Trieste has 600 grand? And the potential of Rijeka alone on the Rijeka coast and Braidice is over 2 million units. Why?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22150	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22151	I didn't call you for that, and now you're making me.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22152	Next replica Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22153	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. President, you said you thought we had projects in the public sector to stop them. I'll remind you of a few projects, and then I'll look back at the Port of Rijeka. As for the projects that have been stopped, we have, on several occasions, replicated each other around the Peljega Bridge that was agreed upon. About building a highway to the record that's been stopped. As for the projects that I've been involved in for the past eight years, then there's the port sector in the first row, so I'll tell you that we've continued your project to build Luke RIJEKA so-called. gt port gt project so we left you the construction of Luke Gaženica, so we left the construction of a terminal in Sibenik port Gat... so we left the project of integration and transport trade in Ploča, so we left you the construction of the Greek coast in Dubrovnik, so many projects of Plinacroa and Janaf were left behind and now to return to the Port of Rijeka. So Luka Rijeka has grown exactly annually about 25 to 30% by the number of containers, but the basic problem of Luka Rijeka is not that there is no secured building permit, not that there is no vision of this port, the basic problem of Luka Rijeka is the fact that Luka Rijeka does not have a secure quality railway. And you know what I'm going to tell you until last year when I was the Minister of Spatial Planning and Construction only the Primorje-Gorski County and I'm sorry to say that there is no Mayor of Komadina here to say that the only one in the county did not agree and did not want to and did not coordinate its spatial plan with the project of the river-Zagreb-Botovo railway construction project and that any excess access to the construction of the railway track which is the assumption of the development of Rijeka port was prevented and could not be realised. And also the Zagreb coast and porto Baroš and delta in Rijeka port were with all possible projects, with documentation that would allow for the justification of the construction of Rijeka port was completed and I also called for the rebalancing of the budget of Mr. Minister...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22154	Thank you very much. Please. Watch it on time. The reply to the replica of Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22155	It's a good thing you mentioned the port of Gagenica in Zadar. It's one of the examples of how adventurous money is spent. Well done, if I am not mistaken, Zadar was with Zagreb and Zagreb with Zadar for the first time connected right at the time of the government of the coalition Ivica Račana. Zadar is an important city, one of the most important cities in Croatia, and what the port of Gazenica serves and how it is projected and business-imaginable, you can explain it to someone else on the other occasion, as well as the Pelješki Bridge. And we keep going back to that Peljek Bridge, and you keep not uncomfortable and you don't feel that basic human discomfort mentioning something that you just beat up, so you made contracts without money. Why the road to Ploč is not finished, why it has been traveling from Split to Ploč for 8 years and the road is not finished. I don't know, you answer me. It'll be over, it's a few more tens of kilometers and it's going to end. When you mention the Primorje-Gorski County or accuse them of complete incompetence, and they won't be so incompetent, it's a pretty successful county or for obstructing state projects, specifically projects that mean life to them, and that makes me very, very weakly logical. Or maybe you're taking an example of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County doing everything it can while spatial plans obstruct what the government wants. Is that an experience? Let's say a ferry connection... to a Peljesac temporary that is not in the spatial plan and is persistently obstructed by pure human malice. What do we do, change the law? Until the bridge is built. We believe it will be built but not by your stories and by signing contracts behind which there is no money. I'll tell you again, once again, it's a crime, it's been done and Minister Hajdas Doncic had to save that thing, save it with contradictions that are not provided with the means to build a bridge. Please don't repeat that we stopped building that bridge, it's simply one basic rotten lie. But look, every time you say it, I'm gonna have to answer it like this. Every time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22156	Thank you very much. The Djuro Drinker has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22157	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Prime Minister, I think enough arguments have already been made about yours. Do you think we sabotaged the investments? Yes, it is. So the fundamental reason he mentioned his colleague Domagoj Milosevic was, in fact, your staffing and installing similar, not capable, and this is seen in PLINACRO where you have five board members, so far he has been one director. So what are five management members doing in a company of 200 employees, but it doesn't matter now. You stopped here, for example, building a fast road towards Bjelovar, building a link, rail track... and.... But I will actually return to shipbuilding because you mentioned it again and you mentioned in one of your answers that it is scandalous that we have developed the shipbuilding programmes that you have inherited, the shipbuilding programmes that the European Commission has accepted and you say that it is scandalous that we have closed Chapter 8, which we have concluded negotiations with the European Union on the basis of these restructuring programmes and that we have signed an accession contract for inclusion in the European Union. It's scandalous for you, and I'll tell you what's scandalous for me. It is scandalous that you have not continued these restructuring programmes and that in this year no shipyard, so neither Brodosplit nor Brodotrogir has contracted any new ship. It's scandalous, Mr. Prime Minister. Based on which and on which restructuring programmes you will continue to restructure and on which partner when you have done nothing all year. This is the way to solve the shipbuilding problem as you see it, so the road to bankruptcy and probably liquidation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22158	Replica reply, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22159	They're always the loudest people with the most unclean conscience. You're talking about political staffing, how did you become a minister? What lists were you on before that? You're holding moral criticism here. I'm being arrogant again. None of what you said is true and yes, your performance is scandalous. In three years you haven't done anything, you've left everything to wait for the election. I did cry for it, I didn't. I promised it would be great, I didn't, I don't know how it'd be, it'd be the best we can do. And you still have the civic cheek to stand up and call someone. I ever handed it to you first, no, you're replicating me that way and I'm supposed to keep quiet about it. I won't keep my mouth shut. I want the public to know who he's dealing with. By which political channels you became, on which lists you were previously on, who placed you in FINA in 2003. Is that a big deal to tell you right now? So you've always been with whoever you could serve at that point, that's your political career. No such people in my government, no morals, and no competences. Call again and I'll tell you again and deny what's wrong with what I said because you're basically human beings. What you're saying is false, you've left one complete hanging... situation. A lawsuit in a completely unclear state, and the final act remained for us, but it didn't push the ball into the goal, Mr. Poppie, that required the whole action, and that's why it takes a year because we can't force anyone to buy a shipyard that has been systematically neglected for years. People need to be given clear guarantees without at the same time putting myself and my government on charges of being thrown away by taxpayers' money. It's important to us. We're left-handed, we're liberal government and left-wing government, but we treat money responsibly if you want nerdy. As you've treated yourself, we know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22160	Thank you. We now have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Can I have your patience, please? A colleague of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22161	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So I refer to article 216. Rules of Procedure. I ask you to warn Mr. Prime Minister not to insult or disdain the MPs. In fact, I feel called, of course, because Mr. Prosecution Prime Minister asks how he became a minister. He became Minister so, Mr. Prime Minister, that as Prime Minister, I proposed him to this House as a respected member among other Croatian employers' associations. You may not be aware that you have been demeaning this particular sentence, insulting the representative of the priest, whom I am not, of course, a lawyer, but I was the Prime Minister, in fact, demeaning and humiliating the Croatian Association of Employers whose representative, Đuro Popioč, came to the government and conscientiously did his job. While Mr Milanovic was Minister of Economy, Mr. Prime Minister, we opened and closed Chapter 8. One with 23 of the most difficult chapters to solve problems and economies, but of course Croatia's entry into the EU. [[Thank you very much. Comrade Kosor, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22162	The next correction to the incorrect quote Gordan Jandroković.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22163	Madam Vice President, I ask you to warn the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22164	It's a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Please, before I give you my word. Comrade Kosor, you have applied for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. You should have told us what the injured Rules of Procedure was and not to explain why you appointed Mr. Poppie to the government, or proposed to the government. Gordan Jandrokovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22165	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I, too, call on Article 216, where it clearly states that the representative is being warned, probably if the representative then and the representative of the Government are being disrespected or insulted by the president or other representatives. So here it was told to the representative that it was basically human unfair because of a debate where he did not personally insult anyone, nor was the debate at all the basis. So, we debates that you hear from the MPs' club today were neither personal nor human at any time. And the debate so far here in the past two and a half hours has been correct. However, for reasons unknown now, for the loss of nerves or for what reason the prime minister is going with really disgusting insults. This is not the way to communicate in the Croatian Parliament. What he said about us not doing anything for three years, and the European Commission tells him to sleep with his government. He probably heard it yesterday from directly from Commissioner Füle, so I'm not going to go into that part, I'm not going to open that topic. [[Thank you. You're out of time. Please.]] But allow the vice presidents and stop insulting the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22166	Mr. Jandrokovic, neither were these injuries to the Rules of Procedure nor were there personal insults The reply to the replica was an adequate replica. [[Intruder Jandroković: Was there no personal insult?]] If you are not satisfied, please contact the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure. And this is in the spirit, isn't it? It's in the spirit of democratic debate. ... The next line has Zoran Vinkovic. [[Intruder Jandroković, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22167	Dear Mr. President, you will probably agree with me that the biggest responsibility for the situation in Croatia is precisely the HDZ, but you must also understand that for this year you are dealing with your government. But I'll go back to the budget. Given that the vast majority of incomes are tax revenues. It's especially visible here that they increase in total by 4% from 64 billion to 67.1 billion. Among other taxes, income cuts, profit taxes, goods taxes and services there is certainly property tax. And I am now interested in the fact that it is a property tax whether it applies to that famous real estate tax, or whether it is contained in this draft budget. Because, above all, the entire Croatian public and all Croatian citizens want to know because this public debate is taking place, is it, in the case of these taxes, whether this budget is in line with the coalition partner? So that's the basic question that comes from this replica of mine. Because it is evident that regardless of the increase in the number of unemployed on the drop in industrial production, income from taxes is currently increasing, including income. So I wonder if this budget is in line with coalition partners and is this property tax because it requires Croatian citizens to answer the question whether this tax is contained and whether this budget is compatible with your coalition partners and whether there are conflicts in the coalition?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22168	The reply to the replica of Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22169	So I humbly report to Mr. Vinkovic that this is harmonised and that the debate should take months, because it is a subjugation to report on a very important matter concerning every citizen. And what's wrong with you will be the first to point out because it's meant to be the income of local self-government, which is very important to you and to me. So that's the answer to your question. And I'm using more time to say that I'm behind everything I've said, that I haven't used a single word that's roughly as ground floor as those who've responded to me, especially some, in violation of the Rules of Procedure, that I'm going to say the same thing again, that I'm going to point out what I think is basic human dishonesty, and it's being illustrated through our attitudes, our careers, the ways we've come into politics, and there's always the loudest people of unclean conscience. And they're not interested in facts at all. If you pinch them, they'll kill you, they'll scream, they won't stop. It applies to some in this House. And so do you, so do I. I started quietly, when fiction, untrueness, insinuation, and it was from people who should be decent and humble not kneeling but being humble because when I say we misjudged economic growth, I was humbled, wrong, wrong. Maybe next year it'll be better. These are very difficult categories. But that lessons are shared by people who have left the hardest part of the job and it's calculated to other authorities, so it's really not fair. That's human unfair. And now you're saying that what all the words used by an esteemed colleague, that's not a Parliament speech. My speech is sharp, it may also be rude but it's never the first and it's never from a hip, but it's always a reaction to such provocators. And they live on it. And then we'll come to how you got into politics, how you ended up in the government, who previously appointed you to political responsibilities, which the government, whose list you were all talking about, is about the man. Did I charge anyone here with a felony? No, I don't. Just for something I find inappropriate, and you say I'm wrong. I'll tell you that a hundred times!
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22170	Thank you very much. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22171	Article 216, here, and I'm going to stick to this Rules of Procedure even though it's not exactly my strong suit and I don't like it, but I don't expect you to give a warning to the Prime Minister because he didn't stick to the subject and he didn't answer to me in a replica, but to HDZ, and I wouldn't want this whole time to turn it into a conflict between the Prime Minister and the HDZ because that's enough for the Croatian people, and to God, we're here in the assembly. I have spoken openly, clearly and loudly, given that certain taxes are mentioned here in the very reasoning of the budget whether this budget is in line with coalition partners so that there will be no 2, 3 days when it is voted that we have a public debate on the budget as we had on real estate taxes, i.e. the former property tax. And I'm using here that we were right to know what we were discussing even though we didn't see the bill written.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22172	Thank you very much. In response to the replica, you received an answer to your questions, not a replica. Martina Dalic, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22173	You said Mr. Prime Minister that politics is something other than what I was saying here on behalf of the HDZ Club. It may be a policy debate like this, but I firmly trust you and I will never give up on it that this infertile debate policy is not. Because neither the state nor the citizens have any use for it. And also, unfortunately, the economy does not work the way politicians would like it and so that they can prescribe it by their political order. It operates exactly according to the economic legality of the market economy, so it might be good to listen to the voices of those who know something about it. I don't even suggest myself here. Because the situation in us is difficult and hard enough that I guess you should conclude that only by that policy the way I suppose you understand it can't go forward. And that is why Croatia is the only country or one of two in Europe that has not seen a positive growth rate in the past 5 years. As far as the arbitration treaty is concerned, just one word. The 2009 trade union agreement was to enter into force on 31.12.2011 and what was left for you was left for a year to solve the problem. Under the circumstances of 2011, the contract could not be broken, but someone also made an effort, a huge effort for the government to come and whoever has a year to find a solution to the problem. And among other things, I suggested how or how he could get rid of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22174	The answer to the replica? Do we have an answer?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22175	Thank you. And whoever signed that contract in 2009 in the year of financial breakdown has made an even greater effort than you. Efforts to sign such a contract. And yet I've never pointed that out in the election pledoa, but I have to, you're making me do it. Croatia keeps credit ratings. Why? Because people who are analysts like you have concluded that something is going on and that it deserves some kind of trust loan, some kind of benefits of the new government's suspicions. It wasn't exactly done for nothing. And the 2011 budget deficit was significantly higher than this year's deficit. That's the government budget deficit that you left behind. We cut it down, as far as it went, it went. And that's what someone recognized. And that's not why I expect lauda, applause, fame, but I just don't know it's being established. It's not bad done. You've pointed to a series of shortcomings in micromanaging and microanalytical approach. All right. Your only proposal concerned the reduction of the wage mass, i.e. the introduction of other criteria in rewarding. Great, I agree, I support. Even in your first replica, I didn't have a reply to the replica, but it's not easy to achieve. You didn't start doing that, no, we're waiting for new obligations under the pay-coordination contracts. How am I supposed to explain to people now that there's no responsibility for this money at this point in the Treasury and that it's a big responsibility for us to have the little trust we've gained in these years, a little bit, not to screw it up. Is this the stuff I told you? This is true for me. And I repeat, my tone will depend heavily on your tone. I can start nice and peaceful, but if I'm provoked by people who have me and you can abuse as much as you want to injure the Rules of Procedure and you'll probably never get a warning because we obviously don't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22176	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22177	So my reaction depends on you. And that's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22178	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22179	I'm here. Criticize me, insult me. I never see it as an insult.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22180	Thank you very much. Next line, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22181	Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, humbly please, I would like to replicate. And in my replica, I will use the arguments so as not to provoke the Croatian Prime Minister whose arguments are clearly running out. If I were to use his rhetoric, then I would ask him if it was fair or unfair to sign a referendum request, if I were to use his rhetoric, I would ask him if he knew then what he was signing in view of today's situation. And to remind you, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, this collective contract has been signed and so I don't drag myself into history, but there's already been a story told about it, but it was signed after the reduction of the state budget of 8 billion kuna and after the reduction of wages and pensions of 6%, which was at 4 months of 2009. It's a fact and a truth you can't deny. And also, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, we all know that the EU's zero-foot directives can't be, but it's also a clear view of this right-hand side of HDZ that at the moment we have to raise the zero to 5% for bread and milk, we will reduce the value added tax rate to meat, fat and oil from 22 h. 23% unfortunately, meanwhile, the VAT went to 25%. It is the position of this political option and it is the way we wanted to help Croatian citizens. And what you offer Croatian citizens with this increase of 0.5 you propose one law with a suspicious duration of up to 1.5. 5% value added tax on ships for recreation and sports. No one from the Ministry could explain what it was. And ultimately a fiscal rule. ...the rule was first laid out here when it was proposed to freeze the 2009 budget at the level of 2008 and then you had neither political wisdom nor economic knowledge to support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22182	Thank you. The reply to the replica of Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22183	There's no point in denying some of the figures you're manipulating I'm going to tell you just one Labour Act is, by all accounts, completely fiscally neutral. A provision of the Labour Act, which was controversial, please allow me to say, was simply an area of the political game and nothing more than that. No one benefited from that, but he didn't have any financial damage either. And that compares it doesn't cost us anything dear colleague unless you think it costs us now. I don't see what that's costing us. It doesn't cost us, so that's one provision that, in the end, the indicative and unions agreed to abolish when it was tried in a civilized way. And that provision was abolished she was irrational. Other major structural problems in the Labour Act I don't see. Of course, if you asked the investment bankers so they would cancel the cancellation deadline, they would absolutely end everything, so any rights of workers would be abolished because it's a one-sided position and it's natural. Is it human, I don't know, it's not even inhuman, but that's what they think. And we have to be politicians, and it's a replica for both you and Mrs. Dalic, unfortunately, I'm fortunate to have that privilege, it's politics. Politics is the responsibility of evaluation, politics is an assessment. None since 2008 of the profession you are calling for and I appreciate it within the limits of the possible did not foresee a financial breakdown in 2009. Maybe one or two men who were then considered adventurers and fantasticists. No one, nor will anyone tell you with certainty at which point the crisis will end and at which point there will be growth and by the summer, no one simply knows it and I see it and you see it and it is art possible in politics. But politics are the decisions you've made. We need to make a decision to sell the Brodosplit on these terms and conditions to keep working. It's crucial, it's not just a zicer, it's the whole action from the center to the goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22184	Thank you. The replica of my colleague, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22185	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here I will try really to limit as few replicas as possible to my debate if it can be a contribution to stabilising this debate in general. Mr. Prime Minister said that here he spoke of humility and I think we should remind the constitutional provisions about the government responding to the Croatian Parliament and that then humility certainly if we talk about it, we expect both from members of the government and from the Prime Minister. And the questions about who became a member of the government, Mr. President, would not be good here now to spread through replicas and through our discussion of an important document, because of course I could, for example. ask how did you propose here to e.g. Mr. Cacic becomes a member of the Government, etc. with this enormous burden, unfortunately, which is personal, but it certainly needs to be looked at in a political context. I volunteered for the same finding that the government I led left no investment. Namely, it is not good to insist on the principle of after me a flood. I think we should stick to that other principle of our departure doesn't end, nothing of your coming begins. That's how it's gonna be one day when you're out of the government. I remind you of the Brijuni Riviera project. So isn't this a project signed by Mr. Jakovcic and I that you then strongly opposed not because you were against the project, but you literally said I'll list it when I become Prime Minister, but the signals from your government are if I understand them well and I read that it actually stops in some way. The airport has already been talked about but also the projects that we have worked with the EU Commission on Waste Management, for example in Rijeka and many others. I also think I can say that it's not exactly anything that we haven't done and left behind the legacy, Dubrovnik ports, etc. A bridge on the Drava but what I wanted very specific [[Intruder: Thank you, please conclude the debate.]] The irrigation project... /the speaker doesn't understand. [[Intruder: Finalize the replica.]] It's a project that has insurance and funding and your government has stopped it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22186	Replication response, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22187	I don't know what it has to do with.../The speaker's off./... Government and Parliament. I was very correct in my remarks and remarks. So here we are colleagues, and I refer to you as a colleague because I have also been chosen here by the will of citizens to represent, and I am the party president, I guess that has some weight. And as for Brijuni Riviera, again, I won't say I'm surprised what you're talking about, but that's also the question of the humility you're talking about. Look, for 8 years, this man has been obstructed, 8 years old, from the insolence towards the county government and Ivan Jakovcic and IDS. For eight years, no one has stood in the way of calling a promised mere competition for the purpose of this space. Nothing, ownership-legal everything was arranged, the state set up structures in 2003, a small number of people introduced the project, so it was a public institution. Only in 2011 in the morning before the elections did you decide to sign it and, of course, it should be done by someone else, it's so chic and it's us. If I wanted to, I couldn't stop this project because he's no longer dependent on me. He depended on the government's preparation all these years that you passively obstructed, so you didn't want it to go away. You signed the contract, it's the easiest, now you have to bring investors. But you know what, now it's a crisis and not all pitches are equally attractive. Well, the investor doesn't have as many as it would have been in 2006 when it was a flight, and that was done in 2005 when you were in power, in 2001 and 2002, the company was founded and it went into the realisation of it. For 8 years, the project has been deliberately obstructed only as a message from local authorities. When it finally started, it started at the time of the worst economic crisis. Of course today and in 2006, something in the offer was accepted, so of course the most attractive location, what we are dealing with now is Brijuni National Park, to make a world resort in the part where they wanted to, and that's all. So you're wrong, it hasn't been done on purpose for years.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22188	Thank you very much. And Branko Hrg, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22189	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, you said one sentence to your colleague Dalic, that he did not belong to this side or that side. I have to say that it's very bad that we can't even tell who belongs to which side today, because when we talk about a budget where, of course, the debate always comes down to something completely different from what should be, then there are bickerings, accusings of the majority parties that led or led the state. But the fact is that it's expected of the social democratic option to take care of those broad layers of citizenship, to take care of small people, to primarily take care of them, and I unfortunately can't read it because today we realize that it's normal to raise prices on bread, milk, medicines, I don't know what products we're raising 5% to. Before we hear that it wasn't exactly the height of 1.1, which some colleagues here have been saying, but for the sake of eased calculation and easier review, it's been put in order since the 1.1th account not out of 1.7. I would expect the government to take care of its citizens and reduce VAT on food submitted by the HSS and certain proposals to the Government with 46,000 and some signatures we didn't get an answer to. And as for the projects that have been launched or not started, I regret to say that this government has tried to stop some projects, that it has stopped some in the area where I come from where there are much smaller works on the Podravska Ipsilon where the railway already mentioned is that famous belovar railway where no irrigation in Virovitica-Podravska County is mentioned, these are projects that have been launched, which are in some way even more realising but their intensity is much weaker. And I'm interested in what projects we're expected to do this year.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22190	Thank you very much. Replication response, Prime Minister. There's no answer. And now we move on to the replicas of the Minister of Finance. Gordan Jandrokovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22191	Thank you. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Finance. I'd just like to comment on one thing and ask if it's possible through replica and response. So you mentioned that energy projects, from the energy sector, will be financed through a private public partnership. So far, we've been expecting him to, for example. Plomin or LNG terminal to be financed by foreign investors. So now I'm the first time, maybe I haven't had a chance yet, but now I've heard for the first time that these projects will be financed from a private public partnership. I'm asking you to tell me what it's really about and what the projects are to plan to build that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22192	Replica response, Finance Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22193	These are large infrastructure projects in energy. Therefore, both thermal power plants and hydropower plants because we believe that HEP should give all available funds into investments to raise electricity transmission capacity and improve the quality of the distribution network throughout Croatia and these are monopoly activities of the state that will never be in the privatisation process. Every modernization of hydropower plants is estimated to be with a private partner, to in some way enable the provision of own funds in capital, and all for reasons not to have the need to build the price of capital in the price of electricity, and all for reasons to reduce the import of electricity and to have our own production, to strengthen our foreign exchange balance and at the same time to have more jobs, more and large investments. Therefore, when we talk about that part, we see a private public partnership. When we talk about hospitals that are also coming from the state budget, private public partnership, for all major state hospitals or as we know them, clinical hospital investment centres should go from a private-public partnership because there is no funds in the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22194	The Republic has a colleague, Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22195	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister, speaking of the pensioners at one point you have been mentioned and the fact that if I am not mistaken if I understand correctly it will be by cutting wages to get closer to the share of pensions in the average net salary. This is contrary to what was declared in plan 21 because it said it would seek that the share of the average net salary pensions is based on an increase in the economy and employment. We're in hiding, that's clear. And if today we have the fact that we have a million and 480 thousand employees, and over a million and 200 thousand pensioners, then that ratio is about 1:1.2 is a burden. But I want to ask how you really think about this ratio that is below 40% and what's the employment limit where you think you're going to get a final increase in the average share of the average net salary when we talk about employment and unemployment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22196	Responsibilities of Finance Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22197	In the next year, 480 million more are forecasted to go to a harmonisation of pensions of around 340 million kuna. Therefore, and next year we said on the pension system we are going with harmonisation and in that part we did not go to consolidation processes for expenditure growth. And we made that very clear. We said, unfortunately, we have to go to the point that part of the salary allowance won't be able to secure in the state budget, and that's why part of the salary goes with certain cuts. This is not a policy for them to get closer, I would say average pensions to salaries because yet the real sector except that it fires people and we have more unemployed, we don't have a reduction in wages, so simply a correction to the state's share of liabilities won't affect the decline of average salaries. When we talk about the need to get close to the 50% wage rate, which is the goal of this political option, and what we really intend to understand then, we must first raise economic growth to 3% and only then can we think about a stronger pension protection procedure because it is simply the government's assessment that they are too low and that they are very hard to live on. The battle for development, the battle for employment, economic growth are an assumption I'd say improvements in the pension system.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22198	Thank you. At 12.20, the time for the 10-minute hearing was up. And now it's Darko Milinovic's turn with a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22199	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Minister, I'd like to rephrase to you. In your speech, you mentioned the health system. Last week you represented a new tax, a new property tax law, and we saw that there was no communication left not only with IDS, HNS and HSU, but also with the prime minister. Because the prime minister in Brussels has said that he opposes the tax on those properties he lives in. You said why I mention it because obviously there's some kind of disproportionateness in some kind of information the prime minister says about you. You said there was a debt in the health system and that the collapse of the health system was 5 billion kuna. Now I'm going to read you what the Prime Minister signed. This resulted in a commitment on December 31st, so at the end of the government, it amounted to 2 billion kuna. I agree with you that there is a nearly programmed collapse of the health system, and that is the fact that the prime minister signed again. On July 31st 2012, therefore, during the first six months of this government clinical hospital centres, the debt of clinical hospital centres amounted to 2.9 billion kuna, representing an increase of 760 million kuna in the first six months of this government or Minister of Health Rajko Ostojić, and continues and the total health institutions' obligations in the first six months have been increased by 639 million kuna. So when we add another 500 million kunas of recovery from this government, that's where the total debt would be increased by a billion and 200 million kuna. It's not the health care business of paying deadlines, it's the non-payments. When we took over, or when I took over that drug pay portfolio, it was 300 days, so we cut it down to 120 days. You know that well, and the stability of the health system then also tells you that in the past three years, there has been no recovery of the health system.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22200	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, Minister Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22201	There's no point in burdening ourselves here with completely different balance sheets. On 1.1.2012, the total health debt is 5 billion HRK 400 million. If we're watching payment deadlines for 60 days. And you'll allow the debts found were at public institutions from 180 to 360 days, and county institutions and 540 days. That's the condition we found 1.1. 540 days of unpaid obligation to Croatian businessmen. It's an unsustainable condition. And you will allow, EU directives clearly, payments in 60 days. And you have prescribed the Law on payment deadlines and provided that these obligations are paid within 60 days by the Financial Business Act this Government will regulate payment within 60 days. And the Law on the Restitution of Health Institutes will solve the debt problem of more than 5 billion kuna and simply take over management so that it doesn't happen. I remind you, in 2002, the same system of recovery was implemented by the former coalition government. Therefore, it is evident that we are not leading a responsible policy, that no responsible policy of control of such systems has been conducted, that every eight years unfortunately we have continuous investments in the failures of the management of the system. 5 billion kunas will be paid, and that means all the economics that now have the problem of indifference due to the government's irresponsible behaviour will be dealt with by a system of rehabilitation of health institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22202	And the last replica, Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22203	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here's the minister you've defended optimism in assessing the growth rate of 1.8% for 2013, but of course optimism without cover always creates frustration, depression and lacks credibility. You, unfortunately, not by your guilt, but part of that credibility lost about this debate about the Real Estate Act when you said clearly that it would refer to the properties it resides in, then the prime minister said that it would not be so, there he had politically left you hanging, and the HNS joined the HDZ at all in the assessment that you do not need such a law at this time. And therefore the question of credibility is whether you will have this political support and in implementing this budget, is the HNS and is behind it and in implementing the 2013 budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22204	Replication response, Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22205	In four months, we will see what the Government of the Republic of Croatia, not the finance minister, proposes when it comes to real estate tax. And very clear messages, unlike you as opposition parties, taxes on real estate citizens who use their property do not carry an additional burden. It's a tax that replaces a parafiscal charge called a communal fee that no one in the world recognizes or replaces a holiday tax. That's the message. That's what we're gonna try to discuss for four months. And as for the interpretation of the word of me, the prime minister, the party of the CNS, it's obviously your part, the desire to make a fight between us. We're too serious people, and we've got some serious business ahead of us. We will take serious care to interpret citizens, which means real estate tax for them. But also a very clear message the Government of the Republic of Croatia has said we want a competitive economy. It's a story about a competitive economy, and not taking moves means anything. Competition is not won with good wishes, it is obtained by launching certain reforms and procedures. Therefore, we are aware that Croatia's salaries are too burdened with health contributions, unlike our European competitors. And obviously we need to find new sources to finance health care. Newly responsible behaviour towards and financing the health system. And that is why we want to fight for a competitive economy, and we will offer citizens solutions where they will still see that we do not want to put extra burden on them.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22206	We're continuing to discuss clubs. On behalf of the HDSSB club, colleague Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22207	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister, Mr. Minister, the Vice President. Discussing the proposal for a state budget always means discussing a document that is of exceptional importance for the whole state and for each citizen, and in these difficult times this document has even a great impact on the psychological level at the level of hope on the one hand and on the level of hopelessness on the other. For us MPs, I will immediately say that the HDSSB's proposal for a state budget is not acceptable for a number of reasons, and I will look back at only two of us most important groups on this occasion. The first group of reasons is what this draft budget is like in relation to the interests and needs of Slavonia and Baranja, and the second is what this draft budget is compared to the general national Croatian interests. So here is the first group of reasons for the needs and interests of Slavonia and Baranja. Still, Mother Teresa, who has devoted her whole life to caring for the poor and fighting poverty, once declared that the only thing that can eliminate poverty is a righteous sharing of good, just. We representatives of the HDSSB have for years pointed to the almost maternal relationship of the central government institutions towards Slavonia and Baranja. In the Ban Courts, they change by ruling, but for Slavonia and Baranja there is no change for the better, unfortunately. On the contrary, it's getting harder and harder. We referred to the unsustainable relationship of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which accounts for 20% of the population and 20% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia was returning from the state budget, not giving but returning, instead of at least 3-8% of the funds from the state budget. We wanted to reason on the unbalanced status of Slavonia and Baranja compared to the rest of the Republic of Croatia, hoping that such a relationship with Slavonia and Baranja would stop. And in particular, we had a change in our relationship with Slavonia and Baranja when we presented the new government on December 23rd last year when you Mr. Prime Minister then said the words that ringed loudly in our ears, and I will quote you again: "The entire Croatian regions, Slavonia above all, are victims of war, perhaps not the most successful policy, because in Croatia politics decided everything and decided everything, and most of all about public money. Not good, this Slavonia, our Slavonia, I promise special care. Take my word for my colleagues and colleagues.", finished quote. But since this concern for Slavonia and Baranja seems to have been seen faster than we thought, because already when presenting the 2012 budget and then at the recent rebalancing, and unfortunately here is this special concern and great goals and important priorities that Slavonia and Baranja represent and this today's government we have the opportunity to see today by looking at this proposal of the state budget for next year. The best example for this is the total funds for the division of the Ministry of Agriculture strategic economic branches of Slavonia and Baranja. In pre-election plan 21 today's ruling corn coalition you wrote down our coalition classifying agriculture as a priority and strategic and branch. Here is what the pre-election promise looks like when elections pass and come to power, just as we could see the position of the Ministry of Agriculture and in the budget for this year 2012 but even worse in the draft budget for 2013. In the 2012 budget, agricultural allocations were reduced by more than 558 million kuna compared to the year before, and are now reduced by more than 482 million kuna in the 2013 budget proposal. For more than a billion kuna, cutting budgets for agriculture means that the strategic economic branch of Slavonia and Baranja will cause damage that can be measured by all the elemental disasters combined. In Slavonia and Baranja, we cannot take the impression that it is not a random but perhaps a system of destroying Croatia's particularly Slavonian agriculture, our farmers and villages. With all due respect to the announcements of greater investment by Croatian Waters which delights us but canals and dikes are necessary but they are one thing, we are talking about people, about farmers about their fates. Because how to justify and how to explain in the first place the incredible fact that in this national budget proposal for 2013 the funds for direct payments in agriculture were cut by more than 600 million kuna. According to the 2013 budget, this direct payment is expected to be slightly less than a billion kuna, and according to the national envelope, according to the Agricultural Support and Rural Development Act for these direct payments, we ourselves have committed ourselves to negotiating with the EU Commission that we need to provide 2 billion 214 million 658 thousand and 85 kuna. This means that we lack 615 million kunas and that is, contrary to the commitments made to its agricultural producers, which the Republic of Croatia and the EU took over when the Commission closed the negotiation procedure for Chapter 11 of Agriculture and Rural Development. The lack of these more than 600 million kunas for these direct payments in agriculture will ultimately lead to a further decline in food production in all sectors of agriculture. Minister Jakovina's work so far has unfortunately shown that Slavonia and Baranja do not benefit much this time from Slavonac becoming a minister of agriculture. I will remind that former Mr. Petar Cobankovic will not only be remembered by the Planinska affair but also by that famous decision not to assign the World Cup to any place in Slavonia and Baranja, but to Biograd at sea. But we are afraid and warn today's Minister Tihomir Jakovina that, with his work so far, he has not primarily protected the interests of activities whose minister has already been unnecessarily carrying out orders to cut available funds, he risks becoming remembered as the undertaker of our agriculture and our Slavonian villages. We acknowledge that the Republic of Croatia has been burdened with major economic problems for years and we are aware that the time has come when it is no longer possible to delay the start of solving these problems and we are ready to bear our own part of the burden of getting out of the crisis but not in a way that breaks everything again on our backs because the Ministry of Agriculture is what they wanted to recognise or not convincingly the largest funds in this year's proposal for the budget of the Republic of Croatia and for the activity which is the strategic branch of the economy precisely for Slavonia and Baranja. This will put Slavonia and Baranja in an even more unfavourable position compared to other Croatian regions, and unfortunately the differences in development will not be reduced but we are afraid that they will increase further. It seems incredible, but when it comes to Slavonia and Baranja, all the governments of the Republic of Croatia seem to have deliberately run a policy of destroying agriculture and Slavonic farmers. What does a policy like this want to achieve? Is the goal of making our peasants and small OPG fail so that domestic tycoons and foreign rich people buy the land of our fathers and grandfathers and then turn our peasants into farmers of the 21st century who will continue to work on their country but now as rent workers, and the new owners will not only determine what and how long they will be left but as property owners of the country will collect generous incentives from EU agricultural funds. Is this the purpose of the agricultural policy of the Republic of Croatia? It is not just our relations to agriculture that in Slavonia and Baranja, we are indignant. Given the difference between Slavonia and Baranja as the most underdeveloped and other highly developed Croatian regions, we were rightly expected to find and see economic investment projects in the draft of this budget that will reduce these differences. Although it is looking forward to the fact that the funds for the division of the Ministry of Economy have increased by 586.7%, therefore, to more than two billion projects for Slavonia and Baranja can only be found in this draft budget. We are always particularly eager to emphasize this, we are always and again stressed that we are never jealous of any kuna that goes to any other end of the Republic. This is all the Republic of Croatia, but it is difficult to accept the fact that a billion kuna could be found in the division of the Ministry of Economy for the restructuring of the shipyard needed, we welcome it, we do not say that it is not necessary to help shipbuilding but if it could be found in the next two years per billion, it is simply unacceptable that no funds could be found for the Ministry of Agriculture for the activity which is the strategic branch of the economy in Slavonia and Baranja, and only for a year compared to the 2011 billion 40 million taken down on agricultural division. In addition, at the same time, I have to mention a bit of strange information that only 1 million kuna has been provided to support the preparation of projects to strengthen the Croatian economy in the state budget. Incidentally or not, this is unfortunately the reality of the relationship and of these Croatian governments towards Slavonia and Baranja, and we are not looking for anything that does not belong to us, we are only looking for what we have earned and made in a joint register called the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia. When it comes to the necessity of saving, we absolutely agree, but there must be solidarity in this. And here's another set of reasons. What is this draft budget compared to the general national Croatian interests? Do not deny that the Croatian Parliament should be a sponsor and mention of the Jasenovac area and the marking of the anti-fascist struggle in the Republic of Croatia we believe that the Croatian Parliament should also be a further sponsor of the mention of the mentioned Bleibur tragedy and crossroad. Cut in the budget on behalf of saving 500 thousand kuna for patronage over this marking not only not only is it not good but it can lead to new national divisions and conflicts. Elimination of the patronage of the Croatian Parliament over the historic largest site of tens of thousands of Croats unnecessarily opens the old unencumbered wounds of national divisions. On the other hand, in this proposal, we find not only difficult to understand but also unacceptable fact that, while, in order to save more than 2.2 million kuna for the Ministry of Defence, the funds for Croatian defenders' associations from the Homeland War are reduced, so for more than 2.2 million at the same time, funds for the Serbian National Council amounting to 7.5 million kuna appear as a new item in the state budget, and then for the joint council of Vukovar municipalities, a million-and-a-half kuna is provided, and there is still no legal personality. Shouldn't we all bear the burden of crisis and savings equally, should there be more equal again and worse, is it possible that in the Republic of Croatia today than those who created such an independent and independent Croatian state with the same blood as those who didn't want it too badly, and a good part of them even participated in its destruction? Care, protection and development of the rights of members of all national minorities required yes, but not at the expense and damage of Croatian defenders and Croatian national beings. And in conclusion, for a long time Croatian citizens have been listening to statements about Croatia's overindebted state, about the necessity of saving, the nominal reduction of all expenditures, the necessity of increasing revenues. This is unfortunately true, but it must be acknowledged that it is true that the skin is already skinned and robbed by Croatian citizens wherever and whatever items are reached, whether it is the increase in VAT, the price of gas, electricity, heating, bread, milk and anything that it collects, it can, and if so far it is not soon and it will. And when it comes to the justification that the debt of the state today is 180 billion kunas, one cannot ask itself what on earth this great money has been spent on, where the vast billions have ended when the economy is where it is, when the reality is almost 350,000 unemployed, more than 80,000 of those who are working, and they don't get paid for it, when poverty takes on galloping proportions, and yet, with the debt and the sale of almost total national wealth, which is not yet intended and sold out. And when it comes to this sale, there was no big difference between HDZ and SDP governments. The fact is that the previous HDZ government is guilty of unprecedented robbery by Croatian citizens and states. However, this today's SDP government instead of social democratic social sensitivity shows an enviable level of neoliberal harsh insensitivity. And according to such a policy, this today's proposal for a state budget is not only not developed for Croatia, it is not even social, and for Slavonia and Baranja is again unfair because, with undeniable objective reasons for the necessity of cutting the costs of exiting the crisis, I repeat, it should and must be solidly divided into all parts of society and all Croatian regions balanced. Therefore, although in a political sense not agreeing with the ruling majority, understanding the difficulties facing today's proposal for a state budget, the HDSB will not invest all prepared amendments but only a minimum number of those we consider to be the most realistic in these circumstances. For all other projects, we hope and expect that they should and have the right to find their places in the analytical positions of the competent ministries because we are convinced that there is room for investment and increased investment in Slavonia and Baranja in this proposal of the state budget. Finally, I expect the support and proposals of the amendments, as well as all the projects for Slavonia and Baranja of all 28 MPs coming from our region, regardless of which foreigners belong, as well as ministers in the Government of the Republic of Croatia who come from Slavonia and Baranja, because very soon we will all have to come back among our citizens and look them in the eyes, and we better do so raised rather than head-up. And in the end, it would be a really long time for citizens of Slavonia and Baranja to benefit from the votes of their ministers in the government, not only those ministers to benefit from the votes of the citizens of Slavonia and Baranja. And you, Mr. Prime Minister, promised to take special care of Slavonia and Baranja and you said hold my word. It's still not a lost chance to keep that word.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22208	Thank you very much. We have five replicas on your exhibit. Zeljko Sabo first, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22209	Dear sir, I will tell you that the Ministry of Agriculture is a large ministry and that thanks to the investment by the Ministry of Agriculture and Croatian Waters, Slavonia is one of the largest construction sites. The other day I was going through Djakovo, and I just saw that it was in Djakova too, so I was teasing Mr. Mayor, a fellow parliamentary representative to complain here all the time, and he had more investment than in Vukovar. On the other hand, you mentioned the Department of Defense, a reduction for the 2 million associations. I must tell you honestly that I was shocked when I received information a month ago that a number of associations and associations on the victim's continent were made out of the budget for this year by two million kunas from the Ministry of Defense to mark the memories of Vukovar's victim. I wish those two million had come to Vukovar and done a good deed for us to do something in Vukovar. Slavonia, agriculture, shipbuilding. It seems to me like an ordinary citizen of this country was ours and ours and pride and shipbuilding and agriculture. But it seems that someone before us has ruined everything so much and that we would have lived far better if we didn't have it. Because all we need now because of the sins of certain structures of the earlier period is a very big problem for all of us. I'll tell you about the investment. Today, here I am, 20 minutes ago in Slavonia it is possible to invest, we have investments, we have investors just like they said. Today I get a call from an investor from Germany, a man who is from Vrbanja and says in Vukovar-Srijem County is the hardest to invest. He's been waiting four years for his project, and he praised Virovitica County. Therefore, we in Slavonia need to see in a certain way who in this water is precisely those offices that prevent us from bringing Slavonia back to life in that economic sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22210	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22211	Thank you. When it comes to projects for Slavonia and Baranja, a respected colleague, I have the impression that you don't believe in what you said about Slavonia being the biggest construction site. This person who lives in Slavonia and Baranja finds it hard to believe, even those who come from time to time only to guests. But good, on your soul. Let the citizens judge whether it is or not. But I will repeat what I mentioned in the debate. We welcome investment in irrigation. It is also necessary to protect against harmful activities of water, but when we talk about the injustice that has been done to agriculture, then we talk about the injustice that has been done to farmers, to people. I am not talking about the channels and the embankments, but I am talking about the fact that, without any reason, more than 600 million kuna were cut off from the funds that we were obliged to provide under the agreement with the European Commission. The national envelope consists of both the European Union and the national budget. but what we will be able to use, what we will get in 2014 will apply to 2013. We are now bringing a budget for 2013 where there is no EU funding. There are 600 million kunas missing, and it's not a true story, and it's a demagogue that needs to be made clear once. He's throwing himself at our farmers how they live off their incentives and their hard work, how they don't like to be paid. That is not true, because the whole of Europe in every EU member state could not survive if there were no incentives. And that should be said loud and clear once and for all, not to throw a Stigma on Croatian farmers. If it weren't for that in the EU, then that fund wouldn't be the highest.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22212	Thank you. Replica Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22213	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Buric, I'm glad you spoke in this clear language of yours about the state of agriculture. I think you've very clearly supported this with concrete figures that I wouldn't repeat, because it's really one catastrophic data that speaks for itself enough, and it was full of mouth swearing in agriculture as a strategic branch. It's not true what you said wasn't and Plan 21 promised special attention. You were also talking about even development, but I want you and you certainly insisted on the position of Slavonia and Baranja. But I want to deny you that there are other regions in Lepoja ours, and I come from one such Koprivnica-križevci, and there is Bjelovar-Bilogorska which are the feathers of livestock farming in the Republic of Croatia, one of the strongest in livestock farming where the enviable results are being delivered, the production of milk. And now, unfortunately, because of these circumstances, these measures are making a number of family farms shut down. The production of milk falls which was extremely high. Well, they don't shut down those people's farms because they want to, but with tears. That's their life, and unfortunately, they're even more crying, and then they're easy to do, which in the last part of it is how these farmers are like this or like that. And then he says why didn't you just irrigate? So it's not irrigation just to stick one pipe in here. And the other thing, I want to say very clearly. So he feeds on corn. Well, corn isn't watering. Well, there's a protein and other food that can also, so I can't irrigate the production. These are all measures, and it's obviously a certain ignorance of the situation which is even more frightening, and I'm not talking about a relationship to the dairy industry that has gone so far that the poor peasant in that situation can't be with them at all. And this really leads to that food addiction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22214	The answer to the replica Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22215	This is all true. I have to especially point out, I may not have been quite accurate, but I tried and in the debate on behalf of the club to point out. I'm not talking about farmers just when it comes to farmers of Slavonia and Baranja. It is more than clear to all of us that agriculture has all over the Republic of Croatia, but it is indisputable that just for Slavonia and Baranja agriculture is the most important strategic economic branch. And everything that happens in agriculture ultimately has a great deal of repercussion on it. When I talked about the importance the EU gives to agriculture, we do not need to get away from the familiar fact that we have those two funds just for incentives, for incentives in agriculture, for payments of 373m euros to be prescribed to Croatia, not in the first year. In the first year of 25, then 30, then 35 in the tenth year we'll get all 373 million. But in 2014, we will get 93.25m euros from the EU Fund for the incentives we pay ourselves. But this refers to what our farmers will accomplish in 2013. Then the finance minister could say that this is the national envelopes, these are EU funds. But this does not apply to the 2013 Budget because it is paid for a year back. What we're bringing in for 2013 is for 2012 incentives and there won't be enough funding, it's 600 million kuna. We question the survival of our small people, the agricultural OPGs and indeed the position of having to sell out everything they had. And what I said as a black script, I'm not saying it's like that, but between our people it's starting to talk, it's not my make-up, so if someone's just trying to deliberately destroy our little farmers so someone comes in with a bunch of money and buys the land for cheap money and tells you to keep working, you'll get, here's everything. But true wealth is hidden in incentives, and incentives are given to the owner of the land, not to him who works on the earth.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22216	Thank you very much. Replica, Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22217	Dear Vice President, I hope that you do not wonder what is planned in this budget for agriculture, so we can also say about Slavonia because exactly what you said was a derelict area which is amazing in the Republic of Croatia, but what Milinkovic said is also true that agriculture is generally seen quite wrong. That this is probably the first time since the independent Republic of Croatia has created that we have a situation that agriculture and food production is not said to be at least in words that it is the strategic branch of the Croatian economy. That's a fact. We have definitely one impact on food producers today and I really get that kind of anger when I hear here today from the projectors that those who won't survive, who won't be able to survive that there will be social programs for them. That's what was said here today for these speakers. And then I ask the question where is this position in the Ministry of Social Services for Social Assistance to farmers, family economies that are going to come to social care because over the course of this year, a few thousand have failed and come into this situation. It will certainly need to strengthen that position, so it would be good for the government to consider the situation and to propose certain amendments itself after increasing social care funds for these agricultural producers because this is back 5 years the minimum budget for agriculture proposed to the Croatian Parliament for adoption. I warn you people it's about economies, it's about bosses who have survived all the systems, we are going to destroy them today and not only in Slavonia, but throughout Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22218	Replication response, Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22219	The distinguished colleague is that, it's true, you're right, which is no longer used or even Colloquial in the official institutions, I don't know when I last heard that agriculture is a strategic economic branch of the Republic of Croatia. It used to write strategic branches are shipbuilding, agriculture and tourism, as I recall. Now tourism remains, possibly mentioned and needed, we must keep and shipbuilding every job is important, but we no longer talk about agriculture as a strategic branch and thus give a bad message that we have raised our hands from agriculture. There is something else that still concerns me, I am sorry that there is no Minister of Agriculture here today, I am concerned and one of his statements that I must admit has caused certainly great uncertainty among agricultural producers throughout Croatia. And he announced, in fact, that he would place another million hectares of agricultural land in office through the new Agricultural Land Act. What's the danger? In that it means an additional 2 billion and 100 million kunas needed for direct payments. Because then they will total nearly 4 billion and 300 million kuna. And we couldn't even secure that 2 billion and 200 envelope for direct payments. I don't think there's any clarity it's known that the national envelope is greater than 2 billion and 200, so it's 2 billion and 400 million kuna. But these 2,200 refer to direct payments. If the Minister of Agriculture announces this, then either he really doesn't care what happens to those who get a billion and a half, it needs to be divided into the existing area, and for those new ones that come, he seems even less concerned. I'm afraid our minister of agriculture doesn't rule matter and experience it, I don't want to offend anyone, but that the guilty person is in the wrong place.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22220	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22221	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here it is necessary to say that you have concluded well at the end now, but in your announcement and in your debate there was a connotation towards Peter Cobankovic. I have information from peasants from Slavonia and Podravina to beg God to return to Pero and help rebuild the farm of cattle muse cows, to help in vineyards, to help in orchards, to return capital investments, to provide timely incentives, to all that made farmers safe and to where we have come to the extent that agricultural production as well as fruit and wine growing as well as dairy while it now stagnates, destroyed, sold out farms, sold out cows to return loans, everything goes downhill. The investment cycle that was to support agriculture, and I'm going to repeat... 56 million kuna stopped, he's gone. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It will continue when it is reprogrammed when the building permit is programmed and the money is not secured at all. The budget does not show the positions with which this would be financed so that the tender could be implemented. It is also incorrect that Slavonia was neglected in the past term of government. It was particularly stimulated by agriculture, and the peasants were finally somewhat satisfied, not entirely. Today I can freely say that they are totally dissatisfied that they have no perspective or future and that deliberate agricultural production is being destroyed as you said and that I will agree with you, that in someone's interest this is not a policy that will stimulate farmers this is a clear policy of destroying the village and giving land that has also been acquired... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22222	The answer to the replica Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22223	... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22224	Your friend's out of time. Dinko Buric's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22225	Dear colleague, let's not idealize now you know how many peasants suffer for Pero to come back about it. I wish him every good in life. He's such a nice man, but I'm gonna have to deal with what happened. But believe me, it will remain among the little ordinary people truly remembered not even by the Mountains so much as that a Slavonic Minister of Agriculture did not dare, he did not do it on purpose but did not dare if Sanader had ordered it that he had to give in the Dalmatia World Ori Championship. Well, don't, I've said it 100 times as if we're doing tuna fishing in Kopački Ritta. But it's weird now. Just for your information. And during Minister Cobankovic I remember the roadblocks and tractors on the roads there were problems, so far there were no problems and we point to problems just so that no one is happy when our farmers are with tractors instead of in the fields on the roads. If we point to that, then I hope you will well-intentionedly understand that some things need to be fixed. It is possible that it has come to us that we want to believe that this is a slip and that through the amendments you will try to fix something. And just one correction, Mr. Djakic, for irrigation Capinci-Vaška go the funds you didn't see, for 2013 if I'm not cheating 28 million kunas and for 2014 are projected 16. We're glad to see it going if I've seen it well in two years 44 million kuna. Why is this 4250 that was scheduled not used in this year is already another thing but continues the project and let it continue. It's good for Virovitica-Podravna County for all Slavonia and Baranja. But we have to be honest with each other, but it's not just about building canals and irrigation and forgetting about the man.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22226	Replica Zlatko Komadina.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22227	Dear Madam Vice President. Let me first mention the need to change the Rules of Procedure again, here we are at 4 p.m. and we only heard the leader and we heard only two clubs. Because replicas are used for exposure. I would replicate my colleague Buric because he succeeded through his discussion of the budget to come back a little bit into World War II and Ustashas and Partisans so relatively and easily mentioning Bleiburg and patronage, or the need for patronage, would mention that we leave these things to historians without equating the partisan and Ustasha movement. This country was created on antifascism as the entire free Europe, and if it had been created on the Ustasha movement then I would not live in it today but in Italy, for example. So I'd like to ask you not to relativize it like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22228	The answer to the replica Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22229	I'll leave first with this last piece of yours. Dear colleague, the victim was the victim, she was the victim of the Ustasha regime, she was the victim of the communist regime. And whoever was killed as an innocent child who was killed by that woman who was killed and thrown into the pit has the same right to drink as that victim who fell under a five-point star. And I haven't mentioned the Ustashas or the Partisans for a moment. I said that the Croatian Parliament should work on a general reconciliation if there was no general reconciliation in 1991 there would be no free and independent Republic. And if the true size of the first Croatian president is Dr. Francis Tudjman was able to put under one hat both sons and grandchildren and partisans and Ustashas and the natives and thus make a truly thousand-year-old dream come true. And keep marking if we want to leave history, I agree, but then let's leave it to history, then let's not patronize anything. For 500 thousand kuna I am to remain the patron of both Jasenovac and the marking of the Day of Antifascist Fight but I am also so that tens of thousands of innocent victims of the communist regime that were killed on the Crossroad, not only on the Bleibur field but also on the Crossroad of tens of thousands of innocent people deserve that the Croatian Parliament marks them no matter how much it cost. And 500 thousand kunas of forgiveness is not something that could not be found in the Croatian state budget. This opens up new national divisions and it's not good. Ustashas, partisans and locals leave history, but let's not make new national divisions needlessly.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22230	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22231	A respected colleague that the previous subsidy policy was successful, good, useful for Croatia as a community and for those who received subsidies, then Croatia would not have such a terrible situation in the stock exchange balance when it comes to food from abroad. It's two so connected facts, so logically loved that we can't escape from them. That didn't work. I know you want to like your voter base, but let it emancipate, because the system wasn't working. So you're advocating the maintenance of an existing system. You say people still don't go out on the street. Perhaps they will, but it is indicative that so far they have not done so except the milkers in the first week of the government's term, and this really cannot be related to the work of this government. It's some inherited situation, it's the market after all. So what I have seen in agriculture, not only in Slavonia and Baranja, but in all of Croatia for a long time, there has been a division of successful and unsuccessful, and they are doing it hard. So those who are not unemployed are not unemployed, these people work perhaps harder and more in vain I would say. And it's unsustainable and we're going to have to change it and we didn't run away from it. So this isn't letting anyone down, this is what we said it would be like this. There's less to encourage. And the money for incentives will be, no one has run out in Europe. Otherwise, Croatia negotiated these envelopes in this way and because it belonged to the countries with the greatest incentives, great incentives, relatively looking, totally ineffective. And the results are bad, and you're saying it yourself, so the result of these wonderful incentives is what, a huge deficit for abroad. Who's that for? We create addicts from people in some way, create an illusion that they can continue to do so. So I said and I'll say it again, we won't let anyone or let them end up somewhere on the side of the margin. But the difference, they all work hard, some work and make money, and some people can't. Here's less for incentives, but it's incomparable for rural development. And you know what rural development is, it's the quality of life in the country because I don't want people to if I'm asked to live in a country in the conditions that some now live in. That life should be quality. Otherwise, in all developed European countries, subsidies are used somewhere less, somewhere more, they are more dependent somewhere, they are less dependent, they are more productive, they are less productive, but the fact is that in Eastern Europe, no farmers have been in a place less than entering the European Union. This story holds water, believe it, because from your speech intended for your audience your audience couldn't follow you and I don't want to patronize it, but you've confused them with a number of numbers, a hint of disaster, a failure, none of it will be, but that some game will lose if they don't adjust. We've been extracting shipbuilding from state negativity that's been suffocating it for years, and we're never going to have agriculture that way, and that's not European politics. Agriculture is for strategic reasons, I'm saying it in Brussels, something you can't leave behind. Why? You can order a boat in China, but food will be more important than oil in 10 years from now, because with the growth of domestic oil and gas production in the U.S., the story takes on completely new outlines. It's no longer a strategic question the way it used to be, it's different. Food, it's a huge story, and that's why we have to be self-sufficient. With what's been the last eight years, we haven't. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I go 200 miles and I see all sorts of things, people who work great, work terribly hard, and people who kill themselves from work and are on the verge of ruin. We have to help them somehow, whether through this rural development, because living in the country just for the sake of the village doesn't make sense. It's also a job in Europe's richest countries. There are fewer and fewer people living in the country, that's not an accident. They have a better life in the city. You also train your children and want to stay either in Osijek or go to Zagreb. So everyone has ambitions, the ambition is to be a small failed agricultural producer is a yoke, it's hard and that's why our policy of training people to take care of themselves but never without state aid because agriculture without help will not go. Shipbuilding will, shipbuilding is strategic for us, not for Europe. We'll keep her safe, we'll do our best, but that country is completely out. From agriculture and rural development will never go out completely because it's a strategic issue, it's too important and I wouldn't mix those things. Investments in water a billion kuna, that's a lot but not only that much, it's not hand out, it's a project. Rural development is projects, that's what makes you stronger in the community. It's the easiest money you can get, here's your money and do whatever you can with it. I don't know, I guess that's how you don't raise your kids, and here we're talking about grown-ups who aren't children but are brought into the status of addiction and when you walk into his estate you see it. It's yelling, it's screaming at 500 meters. When you see the level of education of these people, everything is in place, you can see everything. Slavonia is in the worst condition, the situation in Istria is different, completely different and the size of properties and cultures and there people live from the country but otherwise, there was no war, I agree. The situation in the Dalmatian islands is different, I'd say gentlemen's, but if you come in there and tell them you resented them, but real people don't live badly. The hardest life in Slavonia, which is why it invests in the water of a billion kunas, will be invested even more. Because what I saw this summer in Slavonia is terrible, terrible. I don't know who's to blame, we're not. It's nature's fault. Because when you leave the case, you become a random state, and it happens to us, and we have to stop it at all costs, and that price is being expressed by billions of kunas. Then when you achieve that agriculture will deal with it as direct producers of twice as many people as today, explain it to them. That's your job. It's still more your election base than mine. They're all citizens of this country where I'm the Prime Minister. But you're still more in touch with those people every day. It won't go on like this. So help them to emancipate, to mature because they're not children, they're adults. But we brought them in irresponsiblely, I'd say with an imprecise policy in a state of addiction. It's the only category, so it's directly paid. Shipbuilding isn't any more. It's over. A billion more and it's over, no more. End of story. We'll only survive in shipbuilding if we build high-quality and expensive ships. What some others are doing now is making a few more orders for Azerbaijan, for Turkmenistan, and then it's going to be harder and harder. So, it's a specialization thing. In Slavonia, it's not about small possessions, it's about large properties unless they're gonna produce high-end organic food on small properties. We're not gonna do that in five years. So I'm asking you to be real and honest here. So, we interrupt the policy of uncontrollable incentives that have not led to anything other than giving money without feedback. No development, no higher food production, no profit. People are desperate. They went out on the road. They don't like it, they're not happy. I'm not saying he'll be happy with us, but we're changing games so we don't mess with people. This is another kind of game, and it will result in less people doing the job in 10 years, but it will work more efficiently, produce more and remain something in their pocket. Now half of them are desperate and you know it better than I do. In Babina Greda, 500 meters, two examples. You're going west, apple farm better than... You're going another 20km economy that wouldn't last 50 years ago. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You come to Vrbovac cow farm with 300 head top, Dutch level. It's all in a small country like Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22232	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. A colleague of Dinko Buric's.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22233	Yeah, just because they're desperate, Mr. President, that's why we need to talk about it. Those poor people who are not in a situation where they find themselves guilty, but guilty of the politics that was led in the Republic of Croatia. They need help. I don't... They're smart enough for them to understand what they're about to say here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Just when you talk about it, no more incentives, then don't cross over or you don't know, and I don't believe you don't know don't go over the fact that what I've already said in the EU every country encourages its farmers, pays off incentives, provides money in the incentive budget. If all EU countries do so, Croatia should too. And we're not supposed to cut the number of manufacturers. Not everyone can survive, probably, but it shouldn't be our goal to cut them in half. Where's the half that's not gonna work anymore? Move out. Well, our villages are already empty. The government's strategic thinking about agriculture must be how to allow as many people as possible to stay alive in Slavonia and Baranja, not to move out of there. Because it's an incorrect piece of information, or I misunderstood you as a growing number of people go out. No, because as far as I know from that booklet of Mr. Paul Vandoren, if I remember correctly, it said that 91% of the entire population in the 27 EU countries is in rural areas. So, you don't live in the country badly, and we want to make them move out in Croatia. And no means for rural development are greater than the means for incentives. For 373m euros, and for rural development, 330m euros. The only thing we can use right now is all of them, and those for incentives gradually.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22234	President Milanovic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22235	Dear counterpart, no one said Croatia would stop giving incentives. So we've come from the position that our incentives are relatively large. Croatia has given huge incentives. That's what this is about. Bigger than the UK in relative categories. And as for the fact that 91% of people live in rural areas in Europe, it's only if you consider Kertnering a rural area. It was so in the time of Francis Tahi. So in Europe, 91% of people live in cities, or urban areas, and rural areas, or 90% or more. Rural environments, look, unfortunately it's not the same for me as Babina Greda, who is tormented and struggled to break through life and some village in Styria, which, by the way, concerns the number of people more than Babina Greda, but the way of life is more urban than rural. And these are those rural development funds, that Babina Greda in 10 years looks like a slightly poorer Styrian village. Now it doesn't look like it. It looks poor, no curbs, no real sewers, and that was a big, powerful cattle and dairy village. People are poor. If you'd collected them all together, they wouldn't have taken out 500 kunas without being hungry. But it's not enough today. So that's the intention and it doesn't have to be for 5,000 people to live there. If the country develops evenly, the Vinkovci and Vukovar can accept it. It's not an imperative. Well, I won't decide where people stay. I mean, I can't beat them up in the village or drive them into the cities. But development dynamics are such that people are moving more and more towards cities. If it's cities like Bombay or Lima it's not good. If it's cities like Zagreb, it's not bad. Or Osijek as a small Central European city that has been given a much greater chance of joining the EU. It's a civilized environment like most of our environments. I'll tell you everything, 'cause this is the West. Croatia is west.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22236	Zoran Vinkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22237	You said that Croatian agriculture had been left behind for quite some time. I can agree with that, but she especially now in the past budget and this year left to the case, or producers are left alone not wanting to defend what has been since the last 8 years or the last 20 years. This strategic characteristic of agriculture has just been lost. I'm aware of that. And it's not just in Baba's Greda, but in that Babine Gred, the president came before, it didn't go away. It was coming to every Slavonian village, not on that train without order after the war, but before and later people came because it lived better there than in other parts of Croatia. The fact is that imports of agricultural products have been higher eight years ago and now it's bigger than our production. However, it does not serve the budget, does not serve to cut funds from the budget to control the funds spent. There are ultimately state inspectors and agricultural inspectors who get paid. Our production's dropping, our incentives are growing, our production's dropping. There was a problem. On the other hand, Minister Jakovina argues that another million hectares will be put into the system. These incentives and for these millions of hectares are missing, they are missing in this budget at all. On the other hand, why don't you put in a land system for all those designated tenders under the law? Well, this budget is missing for the famous one, too, I would say famous, for the Croatian pearl of the State Ergel Đakovo is missing 20 million for the end of the yacht, it is not in the budget. No, there's absolutely no money in the budget. When I had the amendment last year, he claimed everything was secure. At the 9th month, they didn't get paid. Let's not let that happen again. Here, I'll finish. [[Invader Zgrebec: Thank you, reply to the replica.]] And somebody's been talking for half a minute, so, I mean, they're always breaking up with me. So you also understand that agricultural, especially in Slavonia and Baranja, but also in other parts of Croatia is strategic production. And that someone can't produce a liter of milk for 5.5 kuna and then sell it to Ducata or I don't know who for 3.5 kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22238	Thank you very much. Replication response, President Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22239	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Other criteria apply to the medals, higher, when it comes to time. No job can be deprived of every element of risk and unpredictability. Then it's not a job, it's a monopoly. So, neither agriculture nor agriculture. And there's a habitual risk. However, given the nature of this job, meteorological conditions, falling addiction, the drought of that country is being jumped, that community, or the Union, is going to jump in and out, and this is not disputed. And only there and only there is allowed and even encouraged, everywhere else state incentives, subsidies, competition competitions only in agriculture and rural development continue to go. So no one's questioning it. And I know a lot about it again as a layman because I studied it a certain number of years ago, including that. So I have basic knowledge. I know what I'm saying. Each country has a slightly different situation, but here is a billion kuna of announced investment in infrastructure, a water economy, in irrigation, and after what we saw last year, or last summer, last season in Slavonia everyone knows what to do. And it won't be over overnight. Without it, the one producing the milk will uncompetitively fail. Those who produce it competitively, and there are such in Croatia, there are them, you know them in both Slavonia and around Zagreb and in northern Croatia, there are not one, you are now operating normally. And with incentives and money, they'll get paid for that job. But there will be decomposition, and that's the truth we have to tell people, it's not a neoliberal policy, it's a responsible policy. Because the neoliberal policy, that's where you've been holding on to the Real estate tax bill that we're gonna talk about 10 more times, you can fool around as much as you want, it's legitimately political, but it's socially sensitive and smart law. We are therefore prepared to fall if, in a debate that lasts for a long time, the arguments of another species prevail.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22240	Thank you. Stephen Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22241	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Prime Minister, you said that the previous support policy or agricultural policy didn't lead to anything. Well, that's incorrect, Mr. President, she's brought in quite well, the indicators say that from 2004 to 2009, milk production has increased by 150 million gallons of milk, several thousand or several thousand barns have been built, meat production has been increased, and this government's policy, Mr. President, I want to say it speaks quite the opposite, so a few thousand of the farm farms have been shut down from the beginning. Milk production is close to 20% decline, resulting in meat production. Of course all that, which leads to the collapse and the collapse of Croatian villages, Mr. President. And now, in these circumstances, we talk about the quality of life in the country, so I think it's inappropriate. Why? So we in certain rural areas tried to improve the quality of life within the framework and water supply, etc., but if this farmer has no existence, there is nothing to live on what quality it is? There's nothing to educate children from, there's a lot of schooling, you've talked about education, there's absolutely nothing to be educated and in the country our peasants want to educate and they're very much in that part, but they can't. And you know what happens further? The number of unemployed rises from that base every day. Every day this figure increases because if the OPG shuts down, it's one of four members of the family, it almost goes to the Employment Office. So, on the other hand, it's a problem. But there's one good thing you said, money in the farm for support will be. So here's what we're going to do is we're going to make the amendment nice and show off because one piece speaks more than a hundred words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22242	Replication response, President Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22243	From this I conclude that both the HDSSB and HDZ are committed to maintaining the existing system that the HDSSB had previously sharply criticised. So I don't see the incentive, not any change. Everything was good so far, it worked, people are happy, they're happy, they're full, they're great, they're making money, they're not complaining, the country's export competitive, food surpluses are being created, new stops are being opened that are now being closed. Have you thought about watering the country eight years ago so as not to have such disasters as these years, that's what serious masters think, not bosses, but budget masters who are one time while citizens give them to do it? It's a responsible policy, we're late with her. What I saw in Slavonia, like all of you, is a humiliation to me, a humiliation to the country, and then I used the word "random state" because that's exactly where the state can and must act. The peasant himself can't, the cooperative can't, the city can't, it can't, only the state or European funds can now and the state. And that's what we're gonna do. But we can't leave completely deprived elements of any risk or uncertainty, he's not in life. So those who are better will always succeed, it is up to us that those who have had a weaker life or who have not managed to completely fail and that they do not remain declassified members of society. It's the essence of the story but agriculture can't function the way it worked and listening to you I haven't heard any suggestions that change, all the same. So the same way everything is the same. These same figures show that it is not good for Croatia, it is not useful, we do not earn, people are unhappy, farms continue to fail nothing has changed. The country is import-dependent. Eight years of such politics, so isn't it smart enough to conclude that something needs to be changed? I won't, and we won't make out the way the previous government did and it's working because the results aren't there. These people are unfortunately not able in this way to produce competitively many of them are not. And as much as I'm interrupting this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22244	Next replica Domagoj Ivan Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22245	... Your Honor, Prime Minister. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] I quote you said, "You can order a boat in China." I hope you're aware of the weight of your words when you say anything can be ordered in China. Everything can be ordered in China. Any industrial product today will be cheaper if you order it in China. What I'm about to tell you in one minute is quite personal because I invested my 10 years of life from 30th to 40th just in a game with those same Chinese with a subsidy from the Chinese state and no support in this country. Today, the EU and the United States are in trouble right now because everything could be cheaper and cheaper in China. That's true because it went through a line of less resistance. I hope that all of us here together are ready and able to finally break the line of less resistance. And finally, a very rhetorical question, and that's what it says, at the beginning of your term, you said, "Hic Rhodes Hitch Salt," I don't know why now after a year you're giving up on that principle.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22246	President Milanovic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22247	It's all about the completeness of my words. I did say that you can order a boat in China but I said that Croatia will not do it, that it must adapt to the new conditions and that it can not work as China but that it must do different ships, so you heard that. If you wanted to replicate, let's talk. I answer to you now for nothing. So, if you can order a boat in China, you can order food in China, but without food, you can't. Without a boat in the worst case scenario, you can even. Without food you can't do it as a doctor you know better than I do. As far as ships are concerned, we must be more competitive here. It's not necessary in China all the cheapest and China becomes year after year that with such growth rates more and more middle-class states. People don't want to work for $100 anymore, they'll soon want to work for a thousand on average, and then these ships, if they don't have extra value, stop being more competitive and Lassie comes home. Maybe on American trips, maybe in Swedish maybe in Croatian again in some new quality, and that's the story. And we're not going to give up shipbuilding if you want out of spite because we're the only Slavic maritative state I keep saying that, but it means a lot to me. So we are the sea, the Croatian medieval state, later... a state tied to the sea. No one else has that. We've built ships and we'll build ships differently than we've ever built before. So we can't compete with what the Chinese can do, but let's look at the future of the Chinese goods won't be so cheap soon, and then they'll have to be better than Swedish, and then things can go home for the lives and active internships of this generation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22248	Branko the Hill of Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22249	Thank you, Vice President. Mr. Vice President of the Government. You said one sentence that actually speaks of access to the Croatian village. You said that living in the country just for the sake of the village doesn't make sense. I would say it makes sense because it is a twofold view of things not only of agricultural producers but also of the preservation of life and the even development of Croatia throughout its territory. I think that every citizen of Croatia, no matter where he lives, has the right to the basic minimum standards to be provided and enabled. You were also talking about food. So I'll say that every true master, and the village always binds itself to its masters, worries that his family has food, that he has something to eat, that it'll be warm for them to buy every clothing for Christmas so that the family will be warm so that they can spend the winter. I think that's how we should learn a little bit about these original peasant postulates. But we would also have to worry not only about producing food but about allowing all Croatian citizens to have cheaper food and that they can afford a little more if not before here, Christmas is ahead of us at least for Christmas. There's one little thing I'm worried about here. You mentioned in your response to the representative of the HDSBB club that whose peasants are the electoral base. Well, I don't know if we're all aware of that, but the Croatian village gave a lot of votes to the ruling Kukurik coalition, which is true. If they're a little sorry today, it's the same thing. But we're not gonna share people by how they voted in the past election. I'm a little worried about this sentence of yours now, because if that's true, then I could think about it in a way that someone here takes revenge on the Croatian village and Croatian agricultural producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22250	Thank you. President Milanovic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22251	So non... I avenge those who gave us a lot of votes. That's what you just said. As we can avenge ourselves, you have just insinuated that we may have avenged the people you previously found to have given our coalition a lot of votes. That doesn't make sense. So it's clear we're not doing that. When you say that I treat the country with contempt and life in the country, then I can answer that your relationship with the people you think you listen to is a relationship that despises and underestimates their intelligence because I despise the life in the country, but I deal with the concern and concern of life in the poor village that I observed. This life is not good, it is not romantic, it is not happy, it is not betrayed, it is insecure, colder, it is worse than your life in the Križevci or mine in Zagreb. It's worse for people like that. You've seen the village in the Netherlands, it's a different culture, but Austria isn't. It's a similar country of Catholic mostly, conservative, traditional, these are recipes as things can be. Hungarian village, that's not a good example. It seems to me in many things worse than the Croatians, and we are not yet in the European Union, so we are not so bad. But don't speak, I beg you, to treat life in the Croatian village with contempt because it really doesn't mean anything. It really doesn't mean anything, it's our problem, no contempt. I think people should be treated like intelligent beings, they listen to what we're saying, and now they like you for what you said, and I despise them. Where do you think I came from, with the chris-elisse? I mean, we're all from the village, at least one side in the first generation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22252	Next replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22253	Dear Prime Minister, it is known that food imports are twice as high as food production. It is certainly not the result of this government, that this is the result and failure of HDZ, which led politics towards the village that has led to thousands of households that have failed. We're before the war, before the '90s. We have produced enough food so that we can feed Croatia and that we can export, today we import food. So let's not mystify the past because the present aren't good enough. One of the worst solutions to the former government was just a relationship to the village. Agricultural land was shared to those close to the authorities, agricultural land was shared for the purpose of obtaining an incentive because incentives were obtained not on what was produced but on the amount of land. All that has been going on in recent years and what is happening today in the country is, in fact, a bad relationship with the village and no policy towards the village. Today, however, there is no shift in agriculture, and today this government does not offer clear solutions, no reforms. I agree with you, do not give money, do not insist just on incentives as some colleagues ask but offer a solution and do not encourage imports but encourage production. That's why this government should finally come out with a reform of agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22254	Replication response, President Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22255	Here, part of the assembly accuses us of reform reform and change, you say there is no reform. I say there are reforms, they're always uncertain in the outcome but there's no revolution. I wish what you're saying was true, that we were before the '90s. For years, we've been producing surpluses of food. Unfortunately, we never did, like we didn't even have a successful shipbuilding before '90. We had a third gross tonage in the world behind Korea and Japan, but always losses. With food, we protected ourselves with customs, and people across the border and then in the '90s left billions buying what, not jewels, food. They were buying food. So Croatia has never been God-knowing successful in this matter. And we are entering the European Union, it is a free market, therefore we cannot encourage food imports. Under the terms of the free deregulated market, all goods shall be free to move. This is the customs union and single market and these are the conditions under which we enter it. We enter fully exposed to the competition of stronger Western economies, but also with the chance to invest 4 in 7 years and withdraw 11.5 billion euros. That's what we're getting. Whether it will be 11.5 billion euros depends primarily on the administration, I won't tell about all of us, n3 can transfer responsibility to others, about who will be in power during that period, and this is a huge opportunity. And secondly, what doesn't kill you, if it doesn't beat you very much, and we have to start getting used to stricter and harder rules both in business and in tax policy, stricter and discipline and in business, and only then will our village look like Bavarian or Styrian.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22256	Next replica, the esteemed representative, Cobankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22257	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Mr. President. So let me say a few sentences. I wanted to be a little sharper in this replica, but now you've convinced me that you do know part of the problem in agriculture by answering this replica, but I still have to correct you. Croatian support is not large, not large shows financial envelopes. Financial envelopes negotiated in total for agriculture are the order size of cca 750m euros or somewhere around 5.6 billion kuna. In 2011, we had the highest amount of total support in agriculture of 3 billion 670 million. But what's catastrophic and why we're attacking you, Mr. President, is that this trend in the reduction of support in agriculture last year is a continuation this year. With 3 billion 670 million subsidies, we come to 2 billion 215 million this year. It's a cut of a billion 472 million. Do you know? It is a 40% reduction in two years and that is what is disastrous for Croatian agriculture. On the other hand, when we look at the financial envelope for direct payment, this year I have to fix a respected colleague is not 600 million less. It's less than a billion and 200 million from the financial envelope for direct payments. The financial envelope for direct payments is 2 billion 790 million kuna, and here is projected 2 billion 599 million in the budget. And that's what's not good about this year's last approach just to reduce the support of agriculture so much, so much to reduce the competitiveness of agricultural production and so much to create problems in agriculture. That's what we're talking about, and we don't agree with this kind of budget proposal for agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22258	The replica is addressed by the respected Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22259	If nothing else is clear between us now. So, on the one hand, opposition to any change and retention of the existing situation, status quo. So, any changes. Leave the message as it was, and best last year okay, legitimately. It's similar to HDSSB. Labourists are looking for the reforms we are carrying out in a certain way. A billion and 200 kuna less for incentives, but I see here for rural development, I see here for rural development. No, that's the exact number but you skipped the number for rural development, which was zero in 2011, or 8 and a half million. Now it's $400 million. Yes, it is. Don't make a mystery out of numbers. So these are very simple numbers. Rural development is something else than here's money on your hands. In such a way I'm sure you don't consider it good and as a businessman, I'm sure you don't think so. So we're keeping it. This is not abolished, only in a small extent, which will also put pressure on people to adapt and change. Some of us will resent it, but we believe we're doing a good thing and not dancing on the edge, but conducting reforms. What will be the outcome of these reforms will we see, I'm not a prophet, I don't know. I don't know for sure, but I suspect he's good. And when I said that we had high incentives I thought it would be clear in relation to countries that are new members, compared to countries that are new members when there were members. So Croatia has been quite generous here. The results are bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22260	And the last replica of the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22261	President, you said in your presentation three key words for this replica village, agriculture, water. For example, I will try to explain to you how important these three words are. But so far, and in this budget, we're still going the other way. I agree with you in part with the policy you have announced. I'll talk about projects to help develop the village, agriculture through water. Can you imagine that in Međimurje an elemental drought must be declared? Two rivers at 20 km and two huge accumulation lakes. And we in Međimurje have a drought because we don't know how to dig up the canals and bring water to the farmers to have irrigation. The county is practically blocked because they have to build six military warehouses, because the only county that has received military property has to give the state something, not money, but military warehouses. And she's financially incapable of entering this significant regional project. That's a serious problem. And in Međimurje, farmers, warlords headed for vegetables and fruit growing. You know why? That it's cheaper, that it requires more investment, but without water, there's no way. And now instead of water, we have plenty of it, help develop the village, agriculture it's our problem. You know, or maybe you know, about ten days ago there was a flood in Međimurje. No one got there, but it doesn't matter. Because the state was saving, Croatian waters, not the Government, Croatian waters to restore the embankment. And three days of warning from Slovenia about the arrival of a water wave was not enough to make rabbit dikes. And right where the farm is where agriculture is most developed, water has become an enemy, not an associate because of state savings. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22262	The replica corresponds to Prime Minister Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22263	I agree with you without irony, I agree, and it just shows how dysfunctional we were. When I came to places like this, and especially towards the east, I felt miserable, powerless. Because we have to look at things systemically. When I was a kid, I watched the facades and what kind of garden it was possible, I didn't look at the street, the sewers, the nogost. I didn't see it at all, it didn't mean anything to me. When I grew up, I first watched what infrastructure looks like, and by that I concluded where I came to Germany, Croatia or some third country. So, we are now working on a serious infrastructure that will make these things impossible and will not depend on the whim and ability of the individual to have at one end a person who is completely dependent on the whim of nature, and 50 km away from the apple plantation that is absolutely independent of the weather and who will earn his loveliness, the money will come, the apple is safe. The market, the freezer, everything works. If countries that are much less naturally gifted than Croatia can, then we must. The same goes for the port of Rijeka. We have to. It's simply God's gift.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22264	We are continuing to debate the clubs, so the views of the SDSS will be presented by the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22265	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government with ministers, I will try to state the position of the SDSS on the new 2013 Budget. So, according to theories, the budget is, i.e. by the definition of figures expressed program he is a bond between the functions of planning, controlling and identifying goals. Each Government, both this Government and the previous Government, seeks to meet these objectives in their budget and everyone, of course, wants to have a budget projection to show that the budget is developmental, where the budget is social, where the budget is balanced. But when we look at the introduction of this budget, when we see a dreary state where it is said that the revenues are 113 billion, where the expenditures are 122 billion kuna and where there is a lack of 10 billion kuna with a cost structure in those expenditures where the largest part of pensions, social benefits, etc. Then it simply concludes that the budget is in two-thirds of the given category. Just by being in two-thirds of the given category, it's to say, in a way, the reality of the possible. So that's what's available, that's how much we can make, that's how much we spend, and that's that kind of minus the difference that appears every year just because it's kind of our reality and what it's possible the size of the SDSS club will accept this kind of budget proposal. Of course we'd like it a lot better if our reality was different, if we didn't have stagnation or a decline in production, we didn't have a drop in investment, we had more employment, etc., etc. We're all thinking the same way, and we think public spending needs to be reduced, and it's all kind of our general thoughts. The only problem is that in such frameworks that are real, which are almost predisposed to how to get it all back. I'm going to try to analyze a couple of strong positions that I think are interesting to us, not as some economic expert, a special economic expert, but I'm going to try to analyse it from a political point of view. Everyone here, everyone was talking about shipbuilding, of course, the secluding position for recovery, not recovery, but for subsidies or for the restructuring of a billion kuna shipyard now, so a billion kuna in the next two years is a very distinctive position and it is quite normal that the reaction of all of us was in a way to ask how this restructuring will be carried out, how the subsidies of that shipbuilding will be used, of course, with the due respect of all those explanations and seeing the position of our shipbuilding in the future, we support it and we have nothing against it. However, it would be good to show certain parameters with how much we will get with the invested 1 billion now and another 1 billion over the next two years, how much use we will be, they do not have to be shown in material parameters, probably these benefits are of a little wider social importance given the large number of employees that shipbuilding around me is interested in whether there is an ordinary question from experience and from the media whether there is a risk that such a large amount of money can be put up through subsidies and some subcontractors so that there is some space for some other things or this will be the only means to restructure which we can, of course, support. We will not ask from which other positions this further billion of shipbuilding was drawn from, colleagues have already talked about it. In the Ministry of Entrepreneurship it is certainly to praise the fact that almost twice as much funding has been allocated to so-called entrepreneurship. Strengthening competitiveness and the development of entrepreneurship infrastructure, etc. and we think it's a good way to achieve what the government was going to say and what it publicly proclaimed as its goal, the launch of entrepreneurship. The only question is whether 400 and a few million kunas are secured in the budgets is the amount that makes some kind of serious dizziness in all of this. There's been a lot of talk about agriculture. Of course, everyone has their own view of agriculture. Agriculture is extremely important for Slavonia and Baranja, it is also very important for the population that I represent because it is mainly the rural population and it needs to be spoken of very carefully. Agriculture, i.e. the agricultural strategy, has, in my opinion, had several stages. In that initial phase when a large family economy was wanted to be created, when almost hand-and-cap-to-hand programmes of land were distributed, a certain category of owners of the country now lording with a few hundred and making up practical... in the country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is perfectly normal for them to benefit much more from some kind of mathematical proportion much greater than these incentives. The state allocated large assets over the year to capital investments in new machinery and equipment, has allocated large funds to incentives in subsidies. Of course, now that those springs have dried up, of course there's been a panic. It's true, I come from the rural community and I know what I'm talking about, but we have to say hands to heart and realistically look at things created in that village population a category of so-called. luxuriant peasants. So, there's never been any more expensive... on the street and there's never been any jeeps in... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There are now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm not saying it's bad. Any progress has its price, but it is definitely one significant minority which is as large as the combined, or large... in the incentive structure, the most triggered. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The question arises what about that common man, that common peasant who was not a great master of large surfaces who could not live off such incentives and who today is in trouble. The cattlemen came into a situation that we created the first assumption that large farmers were being created, to eventually force the cattlemen to spill their milk. So that if a liter of milk were made by that dealer, he would make four liters of milk. It's all clear. So talking about agriculture probably requires a serious debate, a broader debate. I am fully aware of the government's intensities to try to protect itself from these things that have been happening lately, so from the elemental disasters, all of us are surprised by the beating, and then we are surprised by drought, etc., some other countries are less rich in their agricultural potential doing so better and more practically, so one Israel knows how to work and manage the land, or how the irrigation system should be established, one Italy is certainly the pattern to which we should go. Of course, it's good to think about investing in the water economy, but just as previous colleagues have said they will systematically build out certain hydrogens, etc., but individuals, ordinary people, citizens who want to bring it to their own kind of property, will again be forced to report with projects of banks, expensive loans to handle especially those checkpoints. Therefore, the price, i.e. the amount of 150 million kuna, as provided for in the budget for that purpose, I think it is small. As regards agriculture, another sentence, reading the budget positions of the Ministry of Agriculture, concluded that the existing agencies that work for the Ministry's logistics, then we have the Agency for Payments in Agriculture, the Croatian Agriculture Centre, the Agency for Agricultural Land, the Croatian Agricultural Agency, the Agricultural Advisory Service. Why do I say that? In all these positions, the positions of these agencies stand for administrative costs are one-off costs, one-off money. These five agencies together have an administrative cost position of €200 million, and we are talking about a total investment of €150 million for the irrigation project throughout the Republic of Croatia. Also, if we look at how the stock works. So stock stocks are in position with 23 million kuna, out of these 23 million kunas 10 million kuna are the costs of administration, 3 million kuna storage, and only 10 million, 10 and a half are the costs of goods in stock. So the amazing thing is that the same parity has the costs of administration and the costs of supplies. So this is some kind of further reflection on transparency and the need for some kind of public debate on how these agencies work, and there are plenty of them, in which they spend budgetary resources and whether certain agencies are their own purpose. The Ministry of Regional Development is also particularly interesting to us. Why? Because through the Ministry of Regional Development's position it should be defined and one procedure should be completed, a process which is now called a "return", but it specifically refers to housing, house renovation, electrification of unfinished unelectricated villages. So we also had positions planned for these things in the 2012 budget, but the fact is, when we did a summary today, that we didn't finish this job, it's almost defeating the outcome of the realization of these things. So in 2012, we didn't have anything to boast about electricity in housing, in rebuilding houses. And in this budget for 2013, there are positions where we're going to say that through these positions we're going to do, but the question is why we didn't do it last year, why we lost a year on this whole job, people who are waiting to get back to their homes, who are waiting to get the electricity that we still have today, the situation for children to do homework by candlelight, because there's a water there somewhere in Lica, it's just for them to wait for the recovery of everything from one year of the whole eternity. And I don't see any reason if we had 2012 in the budget of that position, I don't see why we care. I also have one practical question, so the question of the model to help local and regional self-government, where the country, according to a particular formula, has, by some calculations, been providing aid to certain municipalities, cities and counties. I don't understand how the Gracac municipality, which is one of the largest municipalities, the most divorced municipalities, is bigger than even some county, and the poorest. She didn't get any help from the state this year. So I can talk about Gračac municipality about its problems, but I'm asking the question of a model that is a model, how can some get 4 to 5 million kuna, and how can Gračac municipality not get a single kuna? So that model and that formula are in no way clear to us, and we don't think that she's living life right now, so she doesn't live a real life that the indicators are statistically like that, but the situation on the ground is saying that the needs for that are somehow different. Finally, to complete the Council for National Minorities has its constant position of 40 million kuna to meet all the needs of the associations from, for the first time since 2003, the budget has been reduced by 2 million kuna, but the minorities have in some way agreed and understand that the need for restrictions applies to all, therefore the National Minority Council is generally satisfied with the budgetary position provided for in 2003. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22266	Thank you, too. We've got a few reported replicas. First respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22267	Well, here's my colleague, I'm curious, I haven't raised a line so I might scare you, you haven't spoken a word yet, but I'm also curious about how some municipalities and cities end up in the budget with their name in the help position, for example. Like right there in my neighborhood of Marcus and the Shodolovci for three or four years together. Is there a world trade center or something like that? Many units of local self-government, regardless of their projects, can neither through funds nor through ministries, receive any lip. So there is obviously no certain criterion, but above all it is related to who supports a particular coalition or party in power. And it would be good for the Croatian public to know what are the criteria for some local self-government unit entering the budget. Are those units of special state concern? And my proposal is to simply declare the whole of Slavonia and Baranja a region of special state concern because it really deserves it. As far as agriculture is concerned, I would like the Prime Minister to hear that, the average milk production per cow in Europe is 7 thousand liters, and here in Croatia there are producers who have an average of 11 thousand liters per cow and they fail. Well, obviously it doesn't work, and it's not just about incentives. The most responsible is, in any case, the Minister and the Ministry of Agriculture who must side with the Croatian producer, not foreign processors. Unfortunately, everything we sold in Croatia has no own processing industry but is in the hands of foreigners and therefore the Croatian producer suffers among other things.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22268	The replica matches the esteemed representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22269	I can tell you that I also referred the issue in this direction but not in the way you said by insinuating that it was some coalition municipalities. So I'm asking the practical question. And the Municipality of Markusica got the money and the Municipality of Gračac did not. Why didn't each other? Or I could have mentioned any other municipality. I'm interested in modeling, modeling whether this model we set up a few years ago where we've set up imputions and how we're going to finance and help some municipalities do they live today? That's what I'm interested in because a lot of things have changed a lot since we've established it so far. It's a special case at Gračac Municipality. But not to spread that subject, so I'm interested in the way and model and formula that one gets and the other doesn't get. As far as the second issue of dairy is concerned, I don't do it, but I know that in my area, milkmen say very simply about a liter of milk that I hand over to that merchant to dilute and sell four liters and that's the essence of the whole dairy policy. Is it something the minister should have said if the government should have had some kind of a different strategy to say in time, but the fact is that there is something wrong with the parity and disparity in that matter?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22270	Now they're going to be replicating Vice President of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22271	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Well, here I have to admit, I was actually encouraged by the first sentence of an esteemed representative in which he said exactly that the budget was actually a policy in numbers. So now if this policy is expressed in figures then of course I'm cold around my heart primarily when I saw what I was planning on doing with science. We all swear always that science is what can get us out of this difficult economic situation, that science is important, I'm sorry that the Prime Minister is gone he loves various quotes so I would quote him the same Benjamin Franklin who long ago said that "Investing in knowledge is the most profitable" etc. But when we look at the numbers of what happens to science, it's a disaster. Science has never been less funded than it is now, and after that, I was also encouraged by the claim that national minorities are satisfied with the budget and again when I look at science alone and when I look at that specific education programmes for the implementation of national minorities' programmes in this budget have been reduced by 35% by 35% that they have been reduced. So can it cause any satisfaction or is it because that policy has been translated into numbers, reflects the attitude towards national minorities? When they look at the incentives of the education of national minorities, they are reduced by 27%, again related to science. So again, if it's a national minority policy, then I have to admit, I'm pretty worried. What I'm particularly concerned about, however, is scientific projects. For all scientific projects in the Republic of Croatia, just funny news is foreseen, 80 million kuna is foreseen. It is believe the mockery of money and science in Croatia will not be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22272	The line matches the esteemed Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22273	Thank you. My dear colleague, I was talking about the Council for National Minorities, therefore, about an institution on the government's body which has declared its position in the budget where he said that despite the reduction of 2 million kuna, it is satisfied that this fund of 40 million kuna will be intended for the advice and associations to be able to finance the association's programmes realistically by the end of the year. I didn't go into further education analysis where you could also say something and in the good part I would agree with your findings.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22274	The next line is the esteemed representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22275	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Col. Horvat, on several occasions and even while we were talking here, agreed in fact with the findings that it was really difficult for a farmer in our village, and then when we compared him with farmers in the European Union and the figures why they live there, so outside the rural areas, and just as a result of a good policy, a good practice of the European Union towards farmers, and she wanted me to be recognized or not, based on giving incentives to their production. Col. Vinkovic also spoke about the amount of milk produced in the European Union is much higher in our country and now the question is why do we fail and they do not fail there. But here's the chance I'm going to take advantage of, I'm sorry there's no Prime Minister now, around that data, okay 91% of the rural areas of the public were wrong neither he nor I, the truth is in the middle, so 91% of the European Union's surface are rural areas, and there lives more than 50% of the population.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22276	Next replica, the Đuro Popiè's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22277	Mr. Vice President. You mentioned an esteemed colleague of the budget item of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and the Ministry of Economy and here you have seen, it just seems to me that you missed the essence and structure of those figures. So the truth is that the Ministry of Entrepreneurship has increased by 380, 400 million kuna by the original budget, but these 380 million more are actually funds that need to go to funds for economic co-operation. It is a project of the former government and it is good to support it, but the question is, in fact, which and what kind of projects this money will go to. I believe it won't continue with this government's practice to help resuscitate the failed little banks. And basically, the smaller amounts are sourced to support small and medium-sized enterprises, so it seems to me that the support for the development of entrepreneurship zones has also been abolished. On the other hand, the Ministry of Economy has a budget as said 500% higher, but you probably also noticed that 700 million kuna is income from the HANDA that this government directly transfers as revenue from the budget. They'll be immediately transferred, it's completely neutral. And 900 million kuna to support the restructuring of shipbuilding. I remind again that these support is only possible under restructuring programmes which must be approved by the European Commission. I believe, here's the prime minister gone, that there are answers to what it will be to support, to which shipyards and based on which restructuring programmes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22278	And the last replica, the esteemed representative of Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22279	Thank you, Vice President. Here's my colleague Horvat, you've actually said in your presentation that you won't support this budget as well as I won't support it because there are so many things you don't agree with in it, so it would be strange to support it afterwards. But you mentioned some agencies and services at the Ministry of Agriculture, so I'll just mention here that, of course, the agricultural advisory service is mentioned here. It is the service if you remember where the law has been amended, where it separates from the work of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber as the only real institution that should protect the Croatian food producer when it enters the European Union. And one of the reasons was that there will be a reduction in costs because the Croatian agricultural chamber costs a lot, so the advisory service will work separately. We now see in the proposal for this budget that an increase in funding for the Agricultural Advisory Service is proposed, and then I don't understand in that part the same thing that was happening, why now the increase, and there was supposed to be a reduction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22280	I'd like to thank my colleague, Hrg. I've made it clear, I don't know if you've heard that we're going to be the reason this budget is and probably all the other budgets that are going to be in this situation are going to be something called the reality of the possible. So that's what we have, we'd like it to be different, I wish I could talk about other amounts but that's it. And then I said that for that reason we would support this budget and I wasn't even in the debate something particularly contradictory except that I pointed out some things that I thought could be done in the end with amendments, and we're going to think about that. In this second part, when you were talking about the advisory service, I had a debate in the last term, and I spoke against the separation of the advisory service, i.e. joining the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, and I had an argument, I was just then calling on this fact that I do not see that it will be something more cost-effective.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22281	The minister of finance, respected Slavko Linic, has now come to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22282	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A brief review of the debate. The challenge is when you have a limit on income growth because you want to encourage the economy in some way, so you can't burden them, at the same time your citizens are taxed, and at that moment it's obvious that you have limited access to income and that at that time it's only a concern that the control and liability of tax authorities is charged by everyone. One more reason because you need money to realize the cost, and on the other hand, to have a loyal match. And of course, you have an excessive debt limit that creates interest, so you have just the negative side of income and expenditure ratios and you have a deficit. And then, of course, it's important to determine what priorities are and in those priorities try to manage the system, to still go into development, to maintain projects, and to change the bad things that we've had so far. One of these parties was subsidies, and that is what reforms require and requires changes. Recognizable subsidies in our budget have for years been railways, agriculture and shipbuilding. And that's what we see during this year that changes follow. In the 2013 Budget you will see very little for the subsidy of railways, very little. Why? For the reason we're going into the railway investment program. For the first time, we say that the workers of the Croatian Railways will not be on the payroll of the state budget. Development projects, projects that will enable the operation and construction companies, companies dealing with the production of bows dealing with the production of wagons. Yeah, those are the messages we want to send. This time money must go into development projects and is therefore not projected in subsidies. We are also trying to send a message that we are changing investment policy into agriculture. A small part of the subsidies, the necessary part, and at the same time go into deficits through investments. Of course, there is a shipbuilding that, unfortunately, has remained in the subsidics for the better part. And that these subsidies are huge, huge. Over the next three years, an enormous amount. Contracted with the EU and potential customers. Because it's not a cover of losses because they're far smaller, it's not even a cover of severance, because it's a far smaller amount, but it's a reinvestment in the adjustment of that shipbuilding to rebuild ships with losses, but a certain amount of time and that part... Yeah, that's why we have such enormous investments in shipbuilding. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Realising that we will continue to produce together with new owners during a transitional period of certain losses with shipbuilding. It is agreed I would say privatisation of shipbuilding together with the EU, and we have assessed that it is necessary because it is also an important export branch. We do not look so regionally, but we estimate that it is exports of 600 million euros, and that we may still have a little more domestic components in the shipbuilding industry. So much so that we understand right away, it's not a problem, no one's gonna cheat so much because the situation is that the new owner won't cheat on himself. So there's no way someone's trying to steal the money that's secured. And that's why it's a problem to make a deal, because in contracts we don't want the state to just give money but a bigger amount to give themselves in these structural changes and in this adaptation of shipbuilding. And there's a problem with the conclusion of the contract, because we simply don't have enough strong partners to participate in this process of restructuring and rebuilding shipbuilding. A few words about cities. Yeah, I have to admit to a model that's old. When we talk about that part that goes from the Ministry of Finance that's trying to balance the fiscal power of cities. But why we haven't dealt with this problem at all, nor has it come to us. So because cities have always been able to break into budgets independently of these models, and given the increasingly difficult conditions, fewer resources are no longer giving rise to these pressures. And that's why we support your idea, so we'll sit down and change the model. And whoever wants to see it will see that it's not divided by party membership, that it's pure mathematical formulas that mathematical formulas we accepted in this House three years ago. So, we're gonna talk and we're gonna change them, but the rules have to exist. Therefore, we simply need to establish rules if we want ways and criteria by which we need fiscally to help local self-government units that simply cannot survive from their incomes. So here's the model we're going to make, talk to you and we'll see. As we speak of science so much discussion about science, then I would ask that we be correct, to realize that the budget does not show how much it is given for science. With the budget law, science is a branch that has the right to its own income. Each user of the budget, as you can see, no longer has the right to own revenue. We all take away the right to own income. The pressures were as high as they were during the former government and our government. That's all that's left of science. And in order to probably get to the right truth, I believe that over the next year we will prepare proposals not to make it our own income either. It may be that part of science will lose its will then, but it is evident that its own incomes are significant. The question is, how do you spend those own incomes? Whether it is investing in what should be invested, and then we will see that investment in science is far, far greater, and that if we want the real truth we will get it the moment we enter our own revenues into a state budget which will otherwise not be a problem. Again, the problem will be the fiscal rule, and regardless of your income, you have new expenses, so just because you want to simply show the reality of what we are investing in, let's say, and in science, it's going to increase expenditure. So then there's going to be a problem with how to meet those 1% expenditure cuts, given that we're above 3% of the deficit. We also have to say that this year as long as the large economy does not record positive results and we have really negative results through economic growth, the number of workers fired, the number of building permits not to list such investments through the Ministry of Medium and Small Entrepreneurship, we simply record a recovery, a halted drop in both craftsmen and small entrepreneurs. And in that part, we see changes. Which means the money was properly invested. About the agencies I believe you will soon be familiar with everything the government will do. It is not easy to send a message to public sector workers and to the state sector that we need to be thriftful, we simply have to pay attention to the level of pay, and in fact, agencies function uncontrollably high wages, high numbers of employees, low efficiency. Therefore, the government and the Prime Minister's Office have made these instructions very clear and we will fully go back to the merger process where it is necessary but also more rational behaviour and consumption. Where money should still go for the functions of those agencies, not for employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22283	Thank you, too. We've reported several replicas. First, it will be replicated by the Đurjica Sumrak, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22284	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, Mr. Minister, you were talking about subsidies, and in particular, here I am going to look back at the subsidies in agriculture. So again, I am saying the level of subsidies in agriculture until the conclusion of the negotiations in reality had to be that way because Croatia was going to end its negotiations. In order to obtain more equal status on the European market, farmers had to do so. Today, we are talking about the budget and Mr. Minister, indeed, agriculture is the most damaged, but also workers. And especially workers in the field, in health care, in the police department. Mr Minister, because it is neither in this budget nor in the rebalancing, there has been absolutely nothing reserved for natural disasters such as droughts or floods, high temperatures or lows that were on the market, of course, agricultural products have collected greatly. In the markets here let me tell you a second is closer to the holiday and every family, because this budget is of course important for the life of all of us in Croatia, but so important for every Croatian family. The holidays are coming up, Christmas is coming up. We all know that it consists not only of food and gifts but in the tradition of the Croatian people is one more solemn Christmas lunch. I calculated it because every day I go to the market in the morning and I know what the prices are and how much they've collected. So let's say one charm Christmas for a four-member family is going to cost 160 thousand kuna. That's a total of 20 charms. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22285	Thank you very much. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22286	No, 160 kuna pardon. Of course 160 kuna. ... For a family of four, that's a total of 20 charms. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Mr. Minister, that's the basis. But let's move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22287	My colleagues, twilight is as good for you as the Rules of Procedure are for everyone else. Thank you very much. Your time is up. Replication response, Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22288	Madam MPs, no one is happier that the EU envelope can be fulfilled that we have 700 million more investments in agricultural programmes and even in incentives. No one happier to say we'll raise our wages. But also, Madam Representative, together we've raised our hands here for the fiscal law. We raised our hand and what did we say? We need to cut the expenditure by 1 index point compared to GDP. Yeah, that's what we're done with. That's the law we've set up. And then there's the answer. The challenge is when you have restrictions on how to set a budget, how to set up, how to find this relationship between agriculture, science, pensions, pays not to tell other ministries dealing with development, such as the Ministry of Economy, Maritime Affairs, Transport and Relationships. Yeah, that's a challenge. This is how we introduced it to you here. As you can see, we also have problems because the fiscal rule is hard to comply with, and we're going to have to see if we're going to do anything about it. Whether we'll do it. You've seen us sacrifice ourselves and don't accept changes in the central budget, but that's why we're going to extra budget users to show that it's going safely into development, that it's not going to the administration. So these were the challenges that they said yes or no, and these are the models that we suggested. Therefore, we certainly have an economy, that we have economic growth so that we can have a slightly different budget and that then we have smaller deficits.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22289	Second replica, Honored Representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22290	I thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, we've been talking for almost 5.5 hours now, we've heard a lot of things we can agree on, with some we weren't very happy about, but after the news that I'm about to read now, the question is how serious we are, how serious and responsible you are, because here on the telxt of HTV, it says: Istrian Mayor Ivan Jakovčić at the Administrative Court in Rijeka has filed a lawsuit against the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning over a series of failures related to the project of the announced thermoelectric power plant on the Coal Plomin 3. It's the second lawsuit in a month. First, Mayor Jakovcic referred to the address of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, the location permit is in our opinion, in our opinion not being issued properly. This is the second lawsuit I issued on behalf of the Istrian County against the competent ministry, starting with the fact that it is in the Istrian County's spatial plan, that the thermal power plant in Plomin, if ever built, can only be built on gas and not on coal, Jakovic said. We talked about investment as a necessary assumption of economic development, and now we have a situation where a coalition partner is breaking your tax law, so they're destroying your fiscal consolidation, and on the other hand you have another coalition partner who's tearing down your investment. We can talk as much as we want, we can outwit ourselves, but that's reality, that's unfortunately the state we have in the country right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22291	The replica matches Minister Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22292	Yes, we have big projects, which always cause a problem, whether based on environmental standards, whether based on some economic justification or priority, and that will always be present and I would say the difference and in coalition partners will be present. This government will implement its projects, and try to achieve them within the deadlines for a simple reason, and therefore, the issue is 1.8% what the government is making a commitment to itself. Every member of the government must do everything to achieve this, and that means we must simply implement this project, with all the misunderstandings with coalition partners, with the local environment, and I don't know what their demands are, because 1.8 requires us to do it. And you'll see in the government we won't complain about a coalition partner or anyone else, we need to make projects. I guess it's clear to us that all obstacles need to be skipped and should be decisive, not to be taken into account by those who disagree, projects need to be implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22293	Now the replica will be presented by distinguished counterpart Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22294	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, you say we're changing our investment policy. I suppose that also means transparency in investment management, so let me remind you that in February of this year we passed a law establishing the Energy Sector and Investment Monitoring Centre, whose member of the Governing Council, although your vote was not as valuable as the vote of the First Vice-President at that time and the Minister of Economy, whether it will change now, we don't know when the new Minister of Economy came. But what I'm saying. It is not clear to me that you, as a member of the board of directors, have not noticed that there is no in the budget of this center. How can we talk about transparent investment management in Croatia when the centre that should lead the biggest investment in Croatia is not recorded at all in the state budget. On the other hand, you can see that the same Ministry of Economy is planning some investment and competitiveness agency, and with a planned amount in the next year of 18 million kuna. What does that mean for the status of an existing centre? Is he breaking up? Did the centre ever perform its task and was pompously announced as a state body that will carry out two billion kunas of heavy investment to be invested, two billion kunas of heavy, which will be invested in raising the energy efficiency of public buildings in Croatia. We know what kind of project, this project has experienced fiasco and debacle, and we don't have any information about it at all whether this center did anything, how much it cost this country, how much money was invested in that center, how many employees there, and did it do anything. Here you are, as a member of the board of directors, I think you should have made it clear to all of us, especially the parliamentary representatives, who were against the establishment of that institution, that body, to show clearly how much it cost us and what was left of that centre to this day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22295	The reply to the replica, Minister Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22296	Mr. Representative, there are agencies that are burdened by the state budget and with their programmes and with their administration, there are agencies that should not be on the state budget, if anything in their programmes can be done for individual users. Therefore, the Investment Centre is trying to organise a monitoring of investments not only for the needs of the Deputy Prime Minister, the competent minister, but for each administration of a particular company. Therefore, the Investment Centre plans are primarily based on company revenues for the benefit of a function that will also be through IT technology that will monitor, inform and control the full development of investments, coordinate urban plans and documentation from spatial planning, in order to allow for faster movement of investments. Therefore, the Investment Centre is more focused on companies and contracts to essentially use their projects. It is therefore an agency that should not come to the state budget, and will remain in relations with companies. As for their projects and plans, you can always get information about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22297	Next replica, counterpart Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22298	Here's Mr. Minister, so I understand a lot, and I've asked in that first replica the basic question of what is with fiscal decentralisation, announced fiscal decentralisation? And Mrs. Sumrak's question is whether anyone has any more to eat at all, not those 160 thousand kunas, but in Slavonia it's less, but I understand that there are many items in this budget, first of all those general items by the ministries, that various competitions will be opened, etc. A colleague named Sabo mentioned that Djaco was a major construction site. Some thanks to Croatian waters, but most of all thanks to the city that had projects and thanks to the city's budget. And that basic question, therefore, I would like it to be in this budget and the Đakova birthplace that is promised, that the Strossmayer Square in front of the Đakova cathedral is the state road D46 passing through Đakovo, that there is the famous road Nashe-Đakovo-Vinkovci which is the worst road in Croatia and I hope that through the ministries and through the contests that will be published just those projects will be. I know I can't go into the budget as an amendment, but here's what I'm asking you to say is that there really won't be any party similarities when they determine who and which unit of local self-government will get for the projects for which the building permits were issued, is everything else then a hollow story. And as one esteemed colleague put it, mentioning the anecdote one we're in trouble and there's no salvation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22299	Time. Minister Slavko Linic answers the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22300	Fiscal decentralisation, that means transfer of power and that means transfer of money. It's fiscal decentralisation. In this year, the government prepared a working group and it's done enough and then we concluded that 2013 is not a suitable year for further decentralisation of functions. Why the election year for local self-government needs not some way to enable current leaders and councils and congregations to complete their mandate and to follow through. Therefore, during 2013 it is certain that further decentralisation and social care and education for primary and secondary education are going on, and I would say health care primarily of primary protection. And I must say, there is no dispute over ministers at all. And then there's the decentralisation of funds. And as you can see in our finances, we're getting very prepared, and it's no accident that we're talking about real estate tax, is it basic when you're talking about decentralisation it's impossible for local communities to enjoy all income on pay. Is that income tax is that a cut, is that a profit tax, and that's the subject of decentralisation? It just means payloads. Therefore, we are going to spend a lot of time on this on the following year at least as far as the Ministry of Finance and the units of local self-government and regional self-government are concerned. And you don't have to doubt that's the job that's ahead of us. We will prepare the tax system for the financing of local self-government units during 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22301	Replica is now represented by a respected representative, Petar Cobankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22302	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. So let me just say that I'm very well aware that it's not easy and easy to put together a draft budget. I also know the Fiscal Responsibility Act, and I know the need to reduce deficits. But on the other hand, I can't, and I can't say that what matters to agriculture is that I would say it very badly and fatally for the future of agriculture because unfortunately the agricultural resources for subsidies in agriculture are decreasing and in 2012 this trend continues and in the 2013 proposal. I also have to tell you in 2011 the total subsidies in the state budget were 6.5 billion. At that time, the subsidies in agriculture were 3 billion 687 million. This year, subsidies decreased by a billion total subsidies, and subsidies decreased by 900 million for agriculture. This year we have an increase in total subsidies by some nearly 600 million, while at the same time reducing agricultural subsidies by 554 million. This only shows that in two years, agricultural subsidies are reduced by 40%. It's not one branch that's tied to the budget that doesn't have that much reduction. And that is why I believe it is not good for the future of agriculture especially in this last year of pre-accession or EU accession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22303	Minister Slavko Linic answers the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22304	Yes, you've noticed exactly the growth of subsidies. They're growing because there's a contract for subsidizing shipbuilding, subsidizing new... signature of the contract your government has contracted. It is you who have agreed to privatise shipbuilding and agreed with the EU. That's number one. Number two, the issue of the European envelope is something that is not so much a problem when we talk about agriculture. It is always a question of what it will be like to withdraw funds from the EU, and we say do not rely solely on the envelope. You have thousands of other projects that can help finance everything called agrarian, everything. And why did we choose one rather than the other? We can change that. But if that's what anyone in these benches thinks we can really shut down the shipyards. Known closure of the Shipyard in Split 600 million, and the subsidisation and maintenance of a billion 260. Yeah, that's the data that's available to all of you. So this government says very clearly, the battle for both shipyards, battle for agriculture and battle both for envelopes and other projects. But this government also says because we're going to stuff everything in there we're not going to have 15 billion deficits because after that, there's a very clear message from the investor, you're no longer wanted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22305	And the last replica, Vice President of the House, the esteemed Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22306	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. You said not all investments in science are seen in the budget. So much for transparency. It seemed to me that the budget should make it clear what was being invested in what part. However, when I speak, it is probably on the trail of what the Prime Minister said and that this budget is based on hunches, namely, he said he had a hunch that something would be or something would not be. But when we're actually talking about where the health money came from, is it from this economy that breathes on the gills and that there's no money, so of course there's no money for that economy. Where did that come from? When we look at the item of the Croatian Foundation for Science, then it is seen that it has increased from 10 million to 35 million, so only by 25 million, which directly violates the law that the government has forced and here, thanks to most in parliament, recently passed the Law on the Croatian Foundation on Science, where you said that there will be 60 million in that item, and now, suddenly, a significantly smaller amount appears on that item. And finally, to conclude, I am actually going back to the fact that science is foreseen, for all scientific projects the state predicted 80 million kunas which is really ridiculous and which will mean that science in Croatia will fully stop, and if it is necessary to immediately make a proposal I will first give a proposal because I find it ridiculous that 80 million kunas are given for all scientific projects in Croatia, while you have also predicted 80,90 million kunas to finance the preparation of materials for so-called "stupid." auto-road monetization. So now if it's worth the same as all science in Croatia, then I really don't have anything else to say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22307	Replication response, Minister Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22308	Yeah, you belong to a scientific circle of people, I don't. I'm some kind of economic knowledge recipient involved in the operation. But I can also say that 22 years have we finished, have we started reforms in science, we haven't. It's wonderful, conflicts between you two, wars between you, so we don't know what a university is and what a college is. We don't know. We don't know today. We don't even know the views of you who are responsible for it, and then we say why there's no reform because if we had reform, everything would be transparent, but we don't have them, and thanks to all of you who work there, it's hard to have them, hard. And that's the problem. The government can break, it can break in agriculture, it can break in shipbuilding, but in science it will be very difficult to break. The scientific community is the one who will show all resistance to any kind of reform, and that's the tragedy. A scientific community that must be preceded, which must point out how to solve Croatia's future in science, we have no contribution. And yes, that's why up to 30% is the highest percentage, especially at high universities and universities and universities, income from an unseen economy, which we leave behind so far not to wage a war because it would be much easier to reform if we have universities to display as a regular income of science so that we really know what this Croatia is investing in. Because it's obvious that the economy pays twice, once directly, and another time through tax burdens. So I really hope we take this seriously. And when it comes to 80 million, there was nothing before that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22309	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the SDP club, honourary representative Igor Radenovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22310	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, Mr. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. I don't know if the good news is that number five after 15... came in five afternoons ago, but we'll see how much that is... I will. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm saying I don't know if the good news is that number five, here I am now number four. Okay, Mr. Mesic, you haven't been able to get me out of touch. I'll finish thinking, I don't know if it's good news for number 42, 43 that it's so late in the line, but I believe we'll still get it done. Allow me colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen that in the shortest lines, I will not go too deep in the analysis of certain items to say on behalf of the SDP Club some basic guidelines regarding this budget. I also said in adopting this year's budget that all of us, someone less, someone more, someone before, made it clear to someone that this is no longer possible, that with excessive borrowing we can no longer, regardless of the amount of interest and only until then, while someone wants to give us such credits and wants to make it possible and that it is indeed and certainly not the way we can go. It would be irresponsible, and I don't want to be irresponsible. In order to get back on the path to growth in the economy, but to keep tomorrow and to grow standards, we will have to take on someone and resent them, the prime minister said in the introduction. My colleagues and colleagues, the 2012 budget was the first budget in the Republic of Croatia, which was smaller than the previous budget. This one continues on that trail, with this budget planned for '13. slightly higher expenditures, 124.5 billion, and 4.6 billion kuna more. But one more step is to explain and to say what this is really about. The tax is a cost increase for interest 2.1 billion primarily due to the takeover of shipbuilding. Then there is the contribution to the budget due to the EU component 1.7 billion, the restructuring of the shipbuilding of 900 million, and the neutral transfer... which has already been explained 700 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we exempt, therefore, this level of expenditure remains the nominal budget of this year, if we are to calculate inflation, then we can also talk about further savings, further responsible behaviour. Unfortunately, we see that the largest part, the huge part of that expenditure increase, will go to interest, to service commitments from the lightly borrowed loans of previous years, loans that went into consumption and did not go into investment. Ten billion kunas will go to the loans that were taken to spend what wasn't earned, and now it's coming to all of us for payment. It comes at the collection this and next year not only to this government, it comes to Croatian citizens. 10 billion kunas of colleagues and colleagues at around the level of all investments in the budget. So, instead of double-investing, we have to pay back the debts used for irrational consumption. Just as an illustration, only the level of interest, so for this irresponsible debt, 10 billion and approximately at the budget level of 7, 8 major budgets, the largest cities in the Republic of Croatia from Zagreb to Rijeka, Split, Osijek to Velika Gorica, Mr. Shuker. They're all about 10 billion kunas. Let us not forget the fact that there has been no economic growth for years, that it has not responded adequately to the economic crisis. She denied herself. It stuck its head in the sand. It was spent, it was as if everything was in the best order, as if the economy was booming and there was full employment. In light of the election, collective agreements and additions that have not corresponded to the economic situation have been easily signed. This government also tried to reduce the overconsumption of state apparatus and public services this year in 2012, trying to reduce the cost of consciousness to a bearable measure for our citizens. It didn't work. We confessed a few months ago, but that doesn't mean we're giving up. It didn't work out exactly because of the huge resistance in the sectors we heard something in the minister's replicas just before. So, which are protected by collective agreements concluded for some earlier times when it was not asked whether there was money, when it was possible for public sector employees to get new rights and those in the real sector not only to lose rights but also to lose jobs. All of these Croatian citizens paid directly and indirectly and will pay all these years. But that's not all they paid for. They paid for our citizens and various Fimi media, paid for their trucks, paid for their tunnel paints, and who knows what they didn't do. All this comes ladies and gentlemen through, toll through the budget. Not Hungarian, not Slovak, not Slovenian, but through the Croatian budget. Some carriers, some former authorities will pay for it by prison through Croatian courts. But that budget won't help much. It'll only help on a symbolic level. We in the SDP club are fully aware that only by saving and stabilising the financial system cannot solve the crisis, but saving and stabilising finances, i.e. the introduction of order, is a prerequisite for opening the investment space. Therefore, this budget is also expected to generate stable budgetary revenues. No one comes from colleagues and colleagues, invests in a state where tax indiscipline, where indifference reigns, and in which administration costs a lot, and gives very little. Building an orderly state in all fields strengthens the competition, promotes competitiveness and a business climate for investment development. Therefore, the introduction of tax and financial discipline, which is very often criticised by the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration, is not a new tax press as some colleagues try to present it. And as good as that sounds in front of the cameras, so it's not about the new tax press. Unfortunately, we often have a situation where everyone who is in principle and rhetorical favour of introducing order, of paying taxes neatly, of respecting standards, of a smaller and more effective administration, but only until the moment we start talking about them. Then they are not fully prepared to take measures that will take reality and introduce order and equality. It is up to the government to insist on implementing these measures and has the full support of the ruling majority club, and the name of the SDP club on whose behalf I speak. The prime minister said, said the minister's fight for investment and jobs remain the primary mission of the government. For the past year, measures have been taken to strengthen liquidity in the economy. I'll just remind you of some. So, twice it's been possible to re-program tax debt for 36 months. We've all brought together in this House the Financial Business Act, before the bankruptcy deal. It's in the process, and we talked about it and the Law on the Restitution of Public Institutions. So, to settle debts in health care and student centres. It's estimated at 5 billion kuna. In addition, this year we take over, and the debts from the shipbuilding, so 9.2, pension fund 1.6 billion kuna. I will remind you, and it is a pleasure to remind you on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club on the incentive measures this government has done in the last 10, 11 months. So again the reduction in contributions, the recovery of the economy from 15% to 13%. Two and a half billion. Some are inclined to re-reciprocate this amount in this House, but it is about the amount that covers the interest at all, but it is about all private sector investments in the Republic of Croatia which is certainly not negligible. It is not negligible to reduce parafiscal burdens, water contribution, forests, monumental rents. It is not negligible, but it could hardly be tied to profit tax, with a reinvested profit tax of 0%. Since the new year we all know that VAT has been reduced from 25% to 10% for catering and tourism. We need to remind ourselves of 6 billion kuna released for the Croatian National Bank export programme, and this year's HBOR rankings are higher by an additional 30% compared to the previous year and if we add together two years of direct support to the economy is only through HBOR. Through... HBOR loans amounted to about a billion and a half kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The minister also spoke of the increased investment activities of the Croatian Roads and Croatian Waters for a billion kunas above plans this year. The same is planned in 2013. So we're consciously going into the deficit, but we're going into the investment deficit. We're not going to spending deficits. Not even 40 million kunas should be ignored in this budget for an increased amount, intended for an active employment policy of 227 million kuna on the spending side, will also be spent on the modernisation of HZ, and this was discussed by the minister earlier. So, not in the well, but where it's needed. So that trains no longer drive 40 an hour, and at the same time the wages grow. Unfortunately, the state of HZ, not to repeat what the minister said now, is not much better than the state of HZ in other companies, public enterprises. ... showed it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I hope that we will succeed in the next year and in the coming years to rationalise these companies. We, therefore, see this budget as a continuation of fiscal consolidation in the Club of Representatives of the SDP, starting in 2012 through which we persistently talk about how we intend to behave rationally and rationally as a state. But also next 2013, and especially the years to come, together with our EU membership, we expect to see and see the growth of private investment and the start-up of economic growth. Therefore, for next year we expect to meet the government's correction from growth by 1.8%, 3% for 2014 and 3.5% for 2015. Optimistic but responsible prognosis. In addition to public and private investments, with investment from EU funds, it is estimated that we can draw 4.8 billion only in the following year, in fact, in 2013, with the reconstruction of railways, with investments in water supply and disposal, with the energy sector, with the resolution of the problem of liquidity, with the regulation of the tax system, with the complete regulation of the public sector, with one word state regulation. We believe that this is also feasible and that the budgetary objectives of the government of Zoran Milanovic will be achieved. The colleagues and colleagues of the SDP club will certainly support this draft budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22311	Thank you, too. We have now reported four replicas. First honorary colleague, Gyurjitsumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22312	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, fellow Radjenovic, as far as this budget is concerned, and as regards subsidies precisely because of this way in agriculture, we will not be able to use financial envelopes in agriculture that are truly agreed on in such a way that other participants within the EU have congratulated on such an agreement. Two, you said we'd have to object to someone's budget. I'm curious as to why for the second time this government resents the same, which is to farmers, why is it that it resents workers, school workers, health care, the police? And let me still have time to say so that Christmas lunch is going to be modest and I don't know what family will be able to provide it for themselves. I don't know, because he's in the most modest way for one of those 160 kuna sarms, one 50-pound cake, one 20-pound salad, no meat comes in here except for two 50-dollar chickens, beans are 60 kuna each. So that's not gonna be the most dangerous thing. Will they, and the debtors, forgive them? And is it normal for the most vulnerable to be resented?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22313	The esteemed Igor Radenovic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22314	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Yes, your colleague Linic told you he doesn't have it for five minutes, we've brought the Fiscal Responsibility Act here, somewhere we need to cut it down. And Prime Minister Milanovic replied earlier, and I don't know whether you or anyone else, around the balance in agriculture. Obviously this was the wrong model, it's not a good model if you're pumping more and more money, and you get less and less products back. It wasn't a good model, let's wait, let's go with the new laws in the area of agriculture. I believe they'll give much better results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22315	Second replica, the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22316	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your colleague Rajenović was more involved in 2012 than in 2013, and this clearly shows that there are no arguments for a budget that is 5.7 billion kuna larger than those proposed for 2012 or 4.2 billion from the rebalanced one. However, it is very strange that your explanation of the expenditure side of the budget is due to which it is growing. You claim that one of the main reasons is interest. However, when you look at the 2012 budget, the projections for 2013, 2014 and 2015 after that four-year public debt of the Republic of Croatia will be higher by €41.42 billion. These are your projections. Therefore, tomorrow someone will have to pay interest just as we talk about interest in the previous period. However, one is budgets in crisis years, and this is already your second, and the other are budgets that have been up to the time of crisis. And you can't say that I don't understand what methodology you've calculated that the deficits and debts of previous years have been spent in consumption? Let's say the pension system deficit is somewhere around 16 billion kuna, budget deficit 10. How do you know that money, only if it didn't say these are for investment, this goes for the welfare, this goes for retirement, which makes you know that borrowing in previous years was spent on spending? You can't possibly know. It is simply the structure of the expenditure side of the budget. But I repeat, after four years of your term, the public debt only on the state budget is growing by 40 billion kuna. At what cost you will be in debt will be decided by the market, not by you. Thus, interest is no argument for the growth of the expenditure side to the election budget in 2012 of 5.7 billion or 4.2 billion on the rebalanced budget. The biggest tragedy of this budget, which on the bad and muddy road from 2012 unfortunately also to the harm of Croatian citizens, also started in 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22317	Replication response, Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22318	Thank you very much. Here's to taxing, that I've talked a lot about the 2012 budget and this year because I just see the 2013 budget as the continuity of this government's good policy. That's why I've said both intro and precise about this expenditure increase, so despite inflation, I've detailed these growth expenditures, and that actually when you exempt them from mathematics, you're left with expenses at your level this year. Mr. Shuker, I don't know how, and you know well, the 2011 deficit of 15 billion with a lower level, actually with an equal level of expenditure and a little less than that logic of yours than this 10 billion. So a big step is being taken to contain that deficit, and you absolutely have to... If that was such proof that despite the various expectations, this government managed to hold a credit rating, and you in this hall might best know what would happen to you for such high and large interest levels that it happened that this rating went down by accident, or yes, and to go into that spiral with such a great debt to go into a spiral that was hard to go to, plus... [[You don't understand.]] economies, etc., etc. [[You don't understand.]] So the direction has changed, macroeconomic indicators we know are not all ideal, but we believe in them, projections believe in them, and I believe that in a few months we will discuss pluses in the Croatian economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22319	Domagoj Ivan Milosevic will be the next representative to present his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22320	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Radjenovic, so no one seriously doubts the introduction of order, although it would be possible to discuss the communication strategy and the government at some point, so neither does anyone question tax repression in terms of tax collection. We warned you at the beginning of this year, thinking under tax repression, first of all, about raising VAT and introducing dividend taxes. So the key question is certainly, and even from this budget, this is how to boost economic growth. I think we'll agree on that. So the government's plan that I want is the best in achieving that 1.8% growth, but one is expectations and hopes and our wishes, and the other are real opportunities. I'm afraid that only if we are finally dealing with structural reforms, Col. Dalic mentioned one, which is for example. Introducing a reward system in public enterprises or public administration, I will mention, I will move on and I will say reform of the labour market, and I will also say tax reform. So we must finally understand that economic growth in Croatia will not bring the Martians, but only we can, and with the possible support or incentive of coming to Croatia by foreign investors, and then I have to wonder what motivates these foreign investors or Croatian entrepreneurs to invest, to keep production here, not to go anywhere else. So we must finally be aware that by entering the European Union not only exposed to the European Union market, but globalised market, we are competing for foreign investors, but soon, if not today, we will compete for the fact that Croatian entrepreneurs survive, maintain their production and business in Croatia, because they will be forced to grow competition in the European Union. So I think structural reforms are what we need, which we need to start seriously talking about in the Croatian Parliament, and the investments that we all love so much will be the result, so investors come where there are serious structural reforms, where there is growing competitive and not competitiveness, not just this year, and last year it happened the same. That's what the numbers say. So let's finally discuss facts, not just desires.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22321	Thank you. And this replica is matched by counterpart Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22322	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Milosevic, to agree on structural reforms is a matter of dynamics, I believe that this government has come to believe that structural reforms both in the area and in the area of agriculture and with these reforms themselves have started. In 2009, we had a sudden economic downturn. How did the HDZ Government react? She then raised VAT 22 to 23%, raised her crisis tax, and from here, the colleagues who sat here were shouting "crap" and "crash." What economic action did we take then? ... Yeah, I agree. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But what economic measure do you remind me, if not now and we're going to have coffee, you have no right anymore, so tell me what incentive to the economy at that time you did, which company we saved, did we maybe shipbuilding, do I maybe not know the power line, the constructor, did Dalmatino, did we do anything about Gredell? I don't remember that. If we carefully look at the measures of this government, then we'll see, plus, minus 100 million kuna, that the discharging of the government's economy is the government's policies at the expense of citizens. Yeah, we're admitting to the citizens' expense. We raised the VAT, about these incomes kind of coincided, I talked primarily about what, on the one, so on the contribution to health care. And not only that, fellow Milosevic, it has been announced more than once from this government we will go on about it, we will go on to further lowering and discharging the Croatian economy, further reducing health contributions, 6% by the end of the term of office, of which 3% in pension reform, said counterpart Schuker about deficits etc. Yeah, the deficits are left, what's been done for the pension reform of the last eight years? We'll pump 3% by the end of this term, and succeed, I believe we'll be able to save the project that started 12 years ago, which is now at pretty low levels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22323	And the last replica, Vice President of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22324	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, the esteemed representative Rajedenovic mentioned healthcare and mentioned two figures of 5 billion and a billion, and that's exactly the problem. So health obligations are somewhere around 5 billion, the budget provides only a billion to cover them. We won't know in what day to get the Law on the Restitution of Public Institutions that was built to actually try to solve it, but with what money? If there's 5 billion missing, and we have a billion planned, how will the other 4 billion be compensated? It won't work at all. On the other hand, at the same time, you yourself have said that the contribution to health will be reduced further, so in the coming years only more money will be missing, while at the same time promising completely unreal to people that they will have equal quality of health care, equal availability of health care, etc. When we look at the numbers, and we see that for example for hospital and health care, we've got as much money as they're about to eat just wages now in health care, and there's too few of them, we've got too few nurses, we don't have enough capacity for everything that's promised to people. How are we supposed to handle this? I don't see it that way with this approach how this in this budget is trying to solve.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22325	And this replica will be answered by counterpart Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22326	Here's a very short one. The budget for health care in this year is higher than the previous year, and I am glad to hear from your mouth that the debts are therefore sorry that there is no colleague Milinovic that the debts are already from 5 billion, so on the basis of 60 days 5.4 billion. That law will soon come before us these two gentlemen will explain it very easily to us I look forward to that day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22327	We continue to discuss clubs. It's up to IDS Club and Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22328	Mr. Vice-President, Minister, distinguished gentlemen of the Parliament. One discussion usually takes between 45 and 10, I mean it really doesn't make sense. But let's let it go now. This is the second budget of this government, so the first budget had a drop in total costs, this new one has a slight cost increase that's true. And what's the point of growth is based on new taxes also on rising prices. What's the tax update? So because of Europe, we now have this 5% VAT on milk, bread, books, kino tickets, etc. What was zero percent but it has to be introduced. VAT on catering drops to 10%, God forbid that tomorrow and the textiles, cigarettes are more expensive 1 kuna, I think there's room here and for more, means hoarding, no more customs to the EU, etc., etc. I remember that we were still there in 2006 or 2007, Mr. Axel Luttenberger and I suggested that VAT 22%, on tourism 10%, and for food 5% it was then but now the rates are 25%, tomorrow 10% for tourism and that third social 5% might consider that part of the food should simply be further taxed with those that are also taxed with 5%, higher than those social and other moments. What interests me is whether they will comply with the international treaty, and probably that between Croatia and France, that is... The VAT continues to be released on the Istrian Ipsion, I don't think it's fair but I said it's an international contract that has power above the law, and there's probably nothing that can change, but what matters most is that the ipilon started in the 5th month of 2013 and that some thousand builders return to work again. Otherwise, the value of these works is about 250m euros, for 45km of fast road from Pazin to Učka plus 5.5km of tunnel. I just want to point out that the Peljek Bridge is only those 2.5km of bridges far more expensive, so maybe you should think about some alternative tunnel, not the bridge. But let's let it go now. What is this budget based on? That's this economic growth of 1.8%. We'll see what happens here. Incomes are €113.6 billion, expenditures are €124.5 billion, short is €10.9 billion, deficit 3.1% of GDP is only interest of €9.5 billion, salaries minus €2.3 billion. If we look at the 2012 draft budget, the increase in expenditure is what Shuker said 5.5 billion kuna ago. The problem is they're saying they're paying now. Some trade unions are already announcing strikes, protests, warning strikes, reading all year long strikes, even so, etc. and the government offers public service unions the same conditions in the new TKU as they have already signed with state service unions. There would be no two Christmases, a regress in the following year, charges for transportation would be reduced and the basis for calculating the jubilee prize in the following year would be 900 instead of 800 kuna. So now I'm not quoting further what they're reacting to from Matica and beyond. 2000 that? Next year, yes, only for that EU membership fee will we need 1.7 billion kuna. Now there's another question that's going to be difficult to secure but it has to be, are we going to be able to withdraw that money from these European funds that we're going to pay? This year we have an unplanned cost that Mr. Linic spoke of for the construction of 900 million kuna, interest on old government bonds and shipbuilding commitments have jumped by 2 billion kuna. The biggest losers will be the beneficiaries of subsidies to agriculture we hear all day long, which decrease by 554 million kuna, but the total expenditure on subsidies will be 6 billion kuna and are higher than expenditure for 2012. But clearly all the excess we see is going towards the shipbuilding. The milkmen keep calling me we're going down, help listen to us, come out and meet us. The debt plan is 26.7 billion kuna. Without that, it doesn't go clearly, and other than covering a 10.9 billion kuna deficit, the state is in charge of re-financing of the old $15.6 billion debt. What is interesting is that there are limits for public companies' responsibilities, such as these HZ, HAK, Croatian roads for 3.8 billion kuna, and the state stands out for these intentions a guarantee of 4.5 billion kuna. From the privatisation of Croatia insurance, Croatian postal bank etc. 3 billion kunas should be made, but still the budget is expected in a 1.8% GDP growth form. And now the question is, is that real? This year, growth of 0.8% has not been achieved, there will be a decline of about 1.1% if growth is 1.8% next year, and opportunities in the environment are uncertain. What scares us mainly from Istria is the circumstances in Italy. It'll be great. If that happens, that kind of growth, then we're literally saved. Can we count on some investments now? In 2012, they were left behind, in 2013, it's our year to be or not to be. I read that in Istria in 2013 some 580 million kuna should be invested in the tourist sector,... Istria 240 million kuna, Istria tourist 133, Riviera 120, Blue lagoon 55, Arena tourist 52 million, there are some 580 million plus... with about 25 million euros. The circus could be meaning somewhere around 800 to 900 million kuna plus cities plus private companies it must be about 1 billion kuna. It's among other things and some basis for construction. It is fortunate that one Cimos from Buzet hired 172 workers in 2012, a total of 1200 employees, but companies should be helped, as such companies should also be helped to overcome indifference and export about 4.5m to 5m euros a month, about 55m euros a year, which is approximately 0.5% of Croatian exports. Shipbuilding, whether or not to waste words on it, needs to be saved. It's a good thing now that an Adris enters the Uljannik, that Croatia's insurance enters, etc., on the other hand they have to take over the Rijeka 3rd May, only at this point they have to take care of about 450 workers. How it's going to end up being reflected, and we'll see about the oil. What's interesting is the 1.1 billion kuna for the rehabilitation of health institutions. It's about the recovery of general hospitals, so from Pula via Koprivnica, Zadar, Čakovec, down to Dubrovnik. This must be done because this burden of the county as founders of these institutions simply cannot be covered anymore. The fact that their business, these hospitals or finances will be centralized for three years is less important, but the Law on the Restitution of Public Institutions argues that it is a fair proposal, because I am looking at the County of Istria 2.5 million kunas of general hospital losses cannot be monitored. Why did I mention this one liquidity of Cimos, because 117 million kunas of additional funds are being allocated to strengthen the competitiveness of the processing industry and they need to be helped as well. HBOR, with 870 million kunas more than in 2012, would have to encourage, among other things, this small economy and these small entities certainly need the most help. I agree that we have a skinny year ahead of us, just like that, and that's why we need to create this one faith that we should both work and work bravely, maybe invest, maybe risk it. Which is why I'm pulling the money out of the banks now, how, now maybe it's crucial. We need public investment, we need more private investment. When it comes to Europe, you have to trust what people say in themselves and your pecks, but you don't need to run away from cooperation, but the basics are once again I'm going to say these private investments and these public systems. Now that we're talking about Istria in 2013, I personally expect now in this first phase 500 million kuna of Croatian road, water, plus HEP, ipislon somewhere around 70 million euros, that's 500 million kuna. The hospital, I'll see it later with Minister Linic, I guess today this 300 million kuna guarantee is approved, tourism 1 billion kuna. I am sure that next year there should be more than 100m euros in Istria, i.e. 750 to 1 billion kuna investments than in this year 2012. Of course, once again, I want to apostrophe both hospital and tourism and ipillon and all this. What is certain about which it is good that Croatian railways are now involved in those guarantees and that is one of the railways' blind intestines in Croatia, it should also be taken into account. As far as taxes are concerned, I was the first to say no to a property tax adventure if it's a greater burden than the existing one. But this proposal, which now goes public, which the note bene does not tang state but local budgets or local budgets, is something that is balanced. So the first real estate has no load, equal communal fee. If someone built five or seven apartments for their children, the same communal fee. Other real estate, like a grandfather or some cottage equal communal fee. And my God, if anyone has a third, fourth or fifth real estate, then let him pay or be seen with the origin of the property as it came. There is clear room for us to touch building land in a public debate because many such land are used as agricultural land and clearly in Europe do not tax unsold dwellings and those in construction. As far as foreign investments are concerned, I'm sure the property tax won't tang. To end, by agreeing I think this budget here you can see what she's left us with the government to actually run out of air. There we see this 27 billion kuna debt, 2013 will be a difficult year, but also a break year or we'll go up or I don't know after that we'll have to change everything. And where it all started... in 2000, the budget was without the MORH and without HZZO 50.7 billion kuna, in 2006 it was already 96 billion kuna. Election 2007 108 billion kuna, 2009. 118 billion kuna. Today we're at 124 billion kuna. So there are around 50 billion kunas more than there were in 2000 and clearly such an economy that 250 or 300,000 less jobs can't handle it. So, in principle of thinking globally, act locally in Istria, investment in 2013 would have to be about one billion more than this year, at least 100 million euros in that I'm just sure of it. Clearly we all hope or we've somehow recorded growth on imports. It's not gonna work like that anymore. I know that we should change that policy because it only guarantees one stagnation, but when I look at Istrian export data again, our exports in 2010 were a billion 228 million US dollars, 2011. 100 million U.S. dollars bigger, but this one's going down in 2012. Clearly, the most important thing for us is the stability of large economic systems because they bind those small ones with them, and in 2012, unfortunately, the failure of a Puris, a great Solaris, occurred, and this is difficult to bear clearly. And 25 more seconds. As far as decentralisation is concerned, I absolutely welcome what Mr. Linic is saying. Both money and power although the whole system should be redefined, rescheduled but not politically radicalized. So this budget is a milestone or/or. If we don't make it, it'll go 10 years back. If it works, it'll take us 10 years to get back to that good time. Just one more sentence. [[Intruder Stazic: Thank you.]] I know that no one will clap this budget, but no one will blame Mr. Linic, the prime minister on that budget, and if a 1.8% growth occurs clearly that one and the other in 2013 will all clap. And that's a delicate moment for this budget is. Why? Because in five or not, I don't know how many months local elections follow.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22329	We've reported two replicas to this exhibit. First respected representative, Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22330	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm sorry there's no such thing as an inaccuracies institute, because I've been here with my colleague Caine often. But I want to say a few things he mentioned, which is that VAT has to be introduced from zero to 5%. It has to, but it doesn't have to come from January 1st, but from the day of its entry into the EU. And dear colleague, I would like to remind you that 6 months is very much in the lives of citizens for basic life supplies milk, bread, etc. And given the circumstances in which we find ourselves when VAT and this one are already 25%, when energy prices have increased, prices and everything else that could have been collected. So I'm sure he shouldn't have been in such a hurry. But in one part, I agree with you for saying that the biggest losers are farmers. It's true. And these two years, 2012 and 13, it's going to be 40%. So I ask you who will survive, who can survive at such a loss. Who can? You say you're often called milkmen. Well, Istra is famous for herding and milking. And I invite you, here you are a member of the ruling coalition. We'll give the amendment. I invite you to help, help simply. So be principled and consistent if you're still a member at all, because I hear little is in IDS, so you're not, so you are. So I'm a little in the middle of a dilemma, and then you get yourself fixed once, not talk like you're oxygen-free, you understand. Because when a man is oxygen-free, his understanding changes as well. So in that sense, I'm asking you to help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22331	The replica matches Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22332	He's talking like he's a fish, like you just came out of something deep. But listen, 26.7 billion kuna is this year's debt to finance deficits and interest. The problem, watch out for Croatia is this budget spending. Just before I tried to say 50.7 billion kunas without the MORH and without the Croatian Health Insurance Office. 2006. 96 billion kuna. It's the 2007 election year. 108 billion kuna, 2008. 115, 2009. 118 billion kuna. The crisis is beginning in Europe, in America. We've saved God's banks, but we've kind of paid for it today by hitting the citizens. By 2009, we didn't believe in this crisis. People would go into business and just open their eyes to all of us, but you still don't seem to have seen it, like you're that eight-day kitten. Now, open your eyes nicely and you'll turn around, and you'll see what happened during that period, and on what occasions or occasions all find gentlemen who need to agree on this budget. Now, what are we doing? We're going back somewhere in 2009 as far as these budget sizes are concerned. It's clearly painful, but I agree with you that we should help these milkmen as well. I said everyone calls me, begs for help, begs to meet with Mr. Linic, with the prime minister, because the situation is almost unsustainable for them. They can't, no one can service these loans anymore. But gentlemen, the same should be kept in mind how this crisis has occurred at the moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22333	Thank you very much. Mr. Milinkovic is not good at throwing him out of the bench like this. You applied for an individual hearing. I see you're 40th in line. You'll have a chance to say it. Next replica, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22334	I would be 68 in an individual debate, so I use the Rules of Procedure eventually voted by a large majority of votes, and I don't see why those who wanted to change the Rules of Procedure are rebelling, which is why this Rules of Procedure has led to one absurdity, but that is so. But here, I want to replicate to an esteemed colleague, Cain, who often talks about this coup on citizens, and then as for this VAT on milk, bread, etc. He'll probably raise his hand zealously. On the other hand, I found it very interesting to listen to these figures related to Istria. I really don't mind that Istra getting that money, to start investment there, etc., but this budget was supposed to seek and develop undeveloped regions in Croatia, above all Slavonia and Baranja, which is indeed Mr. Cain 13 pig of this country. So, that pig that has no tits and is hungry and thirsty and has no money, there is no investment on the side and Croatian roads and Croatian water. So we want to be Istria, too. We want to be a developed part of Croatia. Unfortunately, with such budgets as have been proposed for 20 years and some year in this House, Slavonia has unfortunately become the most lagging of the rich region. Let's just take it through the purchasing power of the population. So both Slavonia and Baranja want to compare to Luxembourg, which has a population head of nearly 69,000 euros in opportunity and purchasing power. Istria currently has about 7,000 euros per year, so per capita. It's about 3100 euros in Slavonia. And now imagine one Slavonic 4-member, 5-member or 6-member family with purchasing power as it is, so it's a disaster. And this budget does not go into the even development of Croatia, but primarily raises developed regions and lowers undeveloped regions.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22335	Thank you very much. We're continuing the club debate. ... When Cain? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] When did it end? We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labourists, the honourable representative of Dragutin Lesar will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22336	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary. This budget structured as proposed for this debate by us is a final demonstration of social justice and social state. By refusing to raise the minimum wage, its share to 40% of the average salary, the tolerance of non-payment of salaries, it was made in the private sector, the demonstration of collective contracts in the public sector, it will be done these days. Science, education and healthcare not only in terms of the reduction of employees' rights but also the fact that part of the costs from the state and from the state are moving to the citizens, this cycle is completed and indeed in Croatia saves everyone, both the state and the public sector, and the state administration, and the private sector other than the financial sector, or banks that managed to beat foreign debt directly as banks or their Leasing company to 22 billion euros. I'd like to call the pillars of this 2013 budget if. So if GDP growth is 1.8%, if inflation is 2%, if household consumption increases by 1.8%, if fixed capital investments increase by 11.5%, if exports rise from 1.9% and imports by 3.6%. The government's contribution to GDP growth is mathematically projected as follows. That household consumption raises or participates in this increase by 0.3, investments with 2.1 and exports with 0.8 as a positive, and what is a negative part, that is, state consumption is 0.4 decline and imports fall 1.5%. This is a 1.8% projected GDP growth structure. And the biggest optimists outside the government and the ruling coalition are skeptical and express the reserve. But I'm not going to pollomise with the estimates because I really agree with Minister Linic when a few months ago on the news issues about the forecast and the assessment said everyone has the right to their forecasts and estimates. The government has its forecasts and estimates based on which it prepared a budget like this. That's why I'm going to express my reserves. Foreign direct investment, growth 11.5% total reminder. What and whose investments? How are we acting and how have we treated foreign investors in Croatia? A few years ago, I remember when an investor from Israel wanted to invest in tourism in southern Croatia made a transparent statement that more would be allowed to invest in Serbian capital than Jewish capital. When China said it had 2 billion euros for investments in Croatia and asked for projects during the stay of the Croatian delegation in Beijing, we remained silent. When Russia said it was ready to invest in the Croatian market, but they kindly asked that, finally after so many years, let's say that we solve their investments in Mljet and Halud where we made them, I will not use the word that is appropriate, but such pigs that no investor who knows for sure will come to Croatia. So the way we treat foreign investors, we've seen it. We take down spending and announce investment, and that didn't work out in any country together. Thirdly, the interest rates for investors in Croatia are too high. And fourthly, as far as public investment is concerned, the biggest public investment holders are already over-indebted public enterprises. Interest rates are too high. I repeat, the Croatian National Bank has given up the rights and opportunities to conduct monetary policy and in a way that has a focus on the drop in interest rates. They focused on the course and nothing else, and the level of interest rates in Croatia for investors is up to three times higher than in the surrounding countries does not concern them, nor does this governor, nor does he before him. And experts say why the state, or public enterprises, large investors would not be, issue project bonds that the Croatian National Bank would buy with, say, 1% of the primary emissions interest. And now, before all those who say that the primary emissions themselves are causing inflation, I have to add that such large investments are not financed within a month, but three, four years, so it's not about primary emissions within a week, and that by returning such loans, this primary emissions is being cancelled and closed. And what is the mass of these funds that, in this way, from the primary emissions from the CNB can be given to the investment economy for availability, the matter is calculated and the subject of experts, not political debates. In addition, Croatia lacks the amount of kuna in circulation, and that is one of the reasons why Croatia's economy is inequitable was spoken by prominent professors and experts in finance and economics in Croatia. And of course the biggest opponents are bankers and their lobby, because they're aware that it would directly affect the height of the interest rate. Another interesting thing, in the budget I found 33 agencies, 13 institutions, 27 offices, and 8 centers. We have an Investment Attraction Agency, another agency is monitoring the investment, the third is developing a public private partnership, the fourth is for food, the fifth is for payments in agriculture, the sixth is the Centre for Agriculture, Food and Village, the seventh is the Agency for Agricultural Land, and we have a Croatian Agricultural Agency. So we have more agriculture agencies than family farms in Croatia. Incomes of 113.3 billion and expenditures of 122.5 billion means 10.8 billion, which is just 3.1% of the social product missing. The expenditures were increased if I followed well, namely part of the budget was combined with the 2012 budget and part of the already rebalanced 2012 budget, so income growth is somewhere around 3.2 billion and VAT revenue growth is 2.9 billion. Out of that 2.9 billion, a billion and 200 large VAT will be charged for introducing 5% VAT on bread, milk, medicines, books, cinema performances, and not 1.7, and the justification is that we reduce VAT in tourism. This will probably contribute to improving the tourist offer, but I am sure that those who will be able to buy less milk because of the increased VAT will not go to a beer restaurant to get the benefit of reducing VAT to catering services. Yesterday's released data that 960 thousand citizens, or 21.1%, are on the poverty line, which means that the four-member family has monthly incomes of less than 4000 242 kuna, and we are planning a growth in household consumption of 1.8%. These are my Minister's reserves, that in a social situation like this, and I'm adding and quoting the budget's reasoning on page 5, with the real pay drop, with a realistic reduction in the population transfer, and only a slight recovery of the economy are we planning to increase household spending by 1.8%. It does not say, however, that the growth and costs of the public for health care will be reduced, as basic health insurance rights are also reduced before the basket is cut by the Croatian Health Insurance Institute Regulation as a result of the reduction of health contributions. For pensions it takes 37.2 billion to contribute to 19.7 billion, so we're hanging by 17 and a half billion. I expected a pension insurance package to come in parallel with the budget, because without cleaning up insurance, pension insurance will not be possible and this 17-and-a-half-billion-a-year deficit will grow. The contributions to health insurance of 16.4 billion and the already reduced contribution of 2% and the announced further reduction of that contribution are the overdoing of a large part of the health cost to citizens and savings to the state. Health care is already under collapse, and this is also evidenced by the fact that the budget planned to resuscitate health care institutions primarily at 1.1 billion if I've added up well, and the commitments of 31.12 last year alone have reached 1.9 billion for hospitals, a total of 4.8 billion. And by reducing the health contribution by 2% next year, we took 3.2 billion dollars in health care. We've taken 3.2 billion, and now we're going to resuscitate 1,100 losses and transfer the difference to the burden of citizens. We did it justifying ourselves by discharging the labour price. Individence has increased, gyro-accounts have been blocked by legal persons, investments are gone, and we've recorded a real pay drop. Who, therefore, profited from a reduction in health care? The grey labour market with only 10% participation in the labour market and non-payment pays 5% to 6% of employees in Croatia, which are those who are not paid and only contribute to the contribution of 5.4 billion kuna. So because of the gray labour market and the payoffs, we lose 5.4 billion contributions. And when all the finance ministers are accusing of the tax press, no one came forward and said but only here the presses are gone because the employers are accusing of the tax press, but here it suits them that the presses are gone because those 5.4 billion ends up in their pocket, not in their companies, in their wallets. And finally, as far as the planned task goes. If I read the budget well regarding planned bonds that Croatia will imitate next year, 7 billion at home on the foreign and 14.2 billion on the foreign market. Why no more on the domestic market? Why if 128 billion kuna is in the future of citizens why not offer the purchase of government bonds to Croatian citizens? You plan 3 billion from the sale of Croatian insurance and Croatian postal bank. It is your right to plan this, but I warn you that the Government has no right to sell neither the Croatian share of insurance nor the Croatian Post Bank until the Croatian Parliament adopts a State Property Management Strategy, until it is written there and only after Parliament's decision can the Government sell it. And from one answer to my parliamentary question, it says literally that you have already made a decision on the sale of the Croatian Post Bank. Don't act against the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22337	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22338	You give the others half a minute more of me after eight seconds...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22339	I must warn you that your time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22340	It is, but then it's the same for all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22341	What can I tell you now? So I warn everyone when their time is up. ... Thank you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We have two replicas on this exhibit. First respected representative Drazen Đurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22342	Here, Mr. Lesar, you've counted some of this agency in the agriculture that's newly formed. Part of them is also set up in a system of adapting Croatia's legislation to certain European requirements. But what was not happening and what was actually the problem of our administration, which was that part of the administrative capacity that was released by the formation of these agencies did not somehow reduce the larger one as it was, and the agencies formed new ones. We have a pressure agency if you haven't noticed in the new budget we haven't had. Yeah. Perhaps it was all under the influence of the business innovation agency RH BICRO which in the new budget its budget grew from 14 to 21 million kuna in this year's proposed budget. So we just see that not only is the budget cut so we have great examples where the budget is growing. It's on another number of agencies that most of us believe really have no idea what they're for or why they exist. In this part of what you said about Croatia's insurance and Croatian postal bank, we recently watched an interview by our President of the Croatian Parliament who also advocated the existence and retention of a Croatian bank in Croatian ownership because there are x examples showing that it is difficult for the state to maintain national monetary sovereignty unless there is much control over any bank, and HBOR can certainly not do this role as they always tell us from the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22343	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22344	Yes, I counted the agencies on whether everything was necessary to adjust Croatia's entry into the EU, but I know it took six months for some to find out where they have offices in Zagreb. And when you've already mentioned the items of the budget that are increasing, they don't shrink or remain the same one, it's stuck to my eye, and that's the item of the Office of the Prime Minister. For 2012, the growth of these funds was 25%, and this 2013 seems to me as much as 7.5%. Apparently, the Office of Prime Ministers has now decided to professionally employ the PR volunteers involved in the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22345	Second replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22346	The esteemed colleague Lesar is this one is a real problem and the number of agencies I believe he didn't even know how many there are, and I don't think he knows this one either. However, income and wages are higher in those agencies. So here last week, at one agency, we reduced the number of governing bodies from 7 to 5, and it's just that that's how we saved a million kunas on salaries. I wonder how much it pays and what those people do, that's the basic question. So a million kunas for two salaries. On the other hand, as far as VAT is concerned, there is a well-known thing in the economy as the minister said and I am not a member of the HAZU, but I am not even a recipient of the economy, I even consider myself a part of the entrepreneur because the mayors have become entrepreneurs. They are practically large companies but having some basic knowledge of the economy of all the normal countries of the world to encourage production, to encourage the economy, to eventually increase consumption to little and not to run away from it. They cut the VAT, didn't increase it. And the normal thing is to break everything, it's quite clear to everyone here in the Parliament who sits down to come back to the citizens and that it's they who will pay the highest price. The only question is how much this will strike again and the price hike on these basic needs. Nobody's going to go to a restaurant of these citizens who live off their average workers' salary, but they'll probably have that beer in front of some village store.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22347	The replica corresponds to the esteemed representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22348	Yes, fellow Vinkovic, except for the increase in VAT on bread, milk, medicines, books, this will certainly be passed on to end-users. We should repeat and mention that the issue of electricity and gas excise duty is also a commitment that has been made for Croatia's entry into the European Union. Croatia has no excise duty so far, we will have to introduce them, there will be a new increase in energy prices, and all of this is the reason for my great reservation on the possibility of achieving household consumption growth of 1.8% as one of the pillars and foundations and not only projected GDP growth, but also the achievement of tax revenue and either on VAT, or on excise duties and other things because people will reduce their consumption so that with the increased rates of income from the title of increased VAT and excise duties it can be the same or slightly higher.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22349	I would like to thank you for the word that Finance Minister Slavko Linic has now reported on behalf of the promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22350	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Let's start with the banks. In Mr Lesar's discussion on behalf of the Labour Club, the Bank, National Bank, Post Office, etc. is mentioned quite frequently. Let's say a few words in that part. When we talk about the National Bank's primary emissions, then I would like to mention only one measure from 2012, so when the National Bank evaluated it, it has indeed estimated that the lack of maybe liquid funds that we have too much interest and that we could loosen our monetary policy and measures, it has proposed that more than 10 billion funds be put into the system by firing the minimum reserve. The banking system stood up, so we agreed on 6.5 billion additional funds in payment. Since it was also a joint business of the Ministry of Finance and Business Banks, HBOR and the National Bank 50% of these funds are placed at 1.5% interest, and banks bid, so no interest is greater than 4 to 5%, which means the average interest on those funds is below 3% at the moment. What we also had to say, for a time we were struggling so we said go only for the project. When we saw it wasn't going then we said it was going for liquidity. With this you can pay your other creditors, you can pay the banks, you can pay whatever you want to sort of settle all your obligations, try simply to enable yourself to re-indebt for loans. Yeah, it's the National Bank's moves. So it's obviously not a problem because unfortunately under the billions we've managed to spend, contract below, another 5.5 billion we have free resources. Now we're trying to change some more conditions to make it easier for the economy, and only to spend the remaining 5.5 billion by the end of the first quarter next year. Also when we talk about HBOR, yes, we have assessed that this is the bank through which the government has the right to subsidise businesses, through business banks we do not have that right, we cannot do that, there are commercial market conditions, so that is why we said through that bank 500 million recapitalisations we made possible in this budget and next year 700 million plus 150 million support and subsidies precisely for these specific programmes. We push all this towards HBOR, all for the reason that HBOR and directly can track individual projects, individual projects in agriculture, individual projects in tourism, individual projects in export branches directly. We even went to a shared liability or shared risk programme to try to reduce their risks, take them to HBOR, reduce interest, and all to support the economy. Therefore, today we can conclude that there is money and money so much that foreign founders of business banks in Croatia are withdrawing money because they have no one to place it with. Not because it's my boss, they don't have anyone to place it. And that's why the high value of the Financial Business Act is because we need to train that economy to start taking loans again. Money's not a problem. The price of capital is lowered thanks to HBOR programmes very, very favourable. Yeah, that's true. There is a question of any projects that would go by the state to be in debt whether through monetary expansion or anything else are deficits again. And can we understand once that the problem isn't the lack of money? Our problem is the deficit limit, our problem is the fiscal law that told us that regardless of all expenditures we have to cut, we have to cut expenditures. Investments are among these expenditures. We need to cut that down. That's how we wrote it ourselves. We wrote it ourselves. And we've still tied it to economic growth. Well, that means the bigger the recession, the more we have to cut. These are the problems of this government, these are I would say the challenges for all of us how to manage and how to propose a way of spending, the expenditure side when we have these restrictions. We have restrictions like this. So let's not bother too much. At this point and enough funds and enough I'd say acceptable interest. It's up to us to just train businesses to take credit. It's the hardest part of the job and it's a job ahead of us. Why are we going to the foreign market? Why not the domestic banks? Well, just so we don't take that liquidity. So, we'll go to the citizens, too, we'll go. But let's also not overestimate the possibilities of citizens. Because if someone thinks that citizens have tens of billions of kuna, then it's really not a problem, then we have a standard, then we don't have to deal with anything. Well, I'd say we don't overestimate the ability of citizens. Individuals who have these, and these are rich individuals, we should try to transfer the burden to them. That's why we say gentlemen, our goal is to make richer people more burdened with health contributions, to relieve the economy and take some money from them. But they just won't invest easily in government bonds. So we're here about that, I guess. As far as Post Office Bank is concerned, the answer is, do you see what the budget looks like? Where's our money to capitalize the Post Office Bank? What we're going to do is invest in the Post Office that she's working on commercial terms and stop investing in HBOR. No, HBOR is 850 million, and we lack kuna at every turn, at every step. There's no money to capitalize. The bank must be recapitalised if it wants to survive on the commercial market. We don't have the money in the budget, and I guess we're clear and unequivocal. Something about a gray market. Yeah, there's a big gray market, and that's why the fiscalization law isn't just about control of the cash budget. No, no. It's control and employee. He has to write a cashier who's issued an account with a name and a last name. Everything will be able to be controlled. And then does that cashier have a job contract, does he work full-time, does he work overtime? We'll see it through those laws. Therefore, the laws we regulate loyal games on the Croatian market will reveal a lot not only illegalities and frauds in cash traffic but also the way employees are controlled. And maybe also about the big investments. Large investments mean entering foreign investments, large investments, and that is primarily in energy, which is, above all, tourism has no foreign capital investment. Because then this means that HEP must be in debt, and at that moment it is a problem because it is the price of interest with the risk of Croatia, so it is a higher price of interest. Then that means higher prices. A foreign investor in large capital investments is what we need. We even think hospitals need to be built out of a joint investment. Why? Because then we're not going to put the capital price into the cost, but it's going to be the risk of a joint venture. So let's try to figure out where we are and we're in that part. I see my time is up, so there'll be a second chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22351	And on this exhibit, we have three replicas reported. First dear Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22352	Yes, Minister, then I ask myself what happens to those six and a half billion when they reach the end-user. You say that capital is given, but there are no projects. And to me, entrepreneurs, I was told yesterday by a bank that participated in the six-and-a-half billion-dollar transmissions by an interest of 8-and-a-half percent to an investor in construction. Eight and a half percent, yesterday. It only took three million kunas to complete the project. So you see there are different data and truths. If you want, I can get these people to document it for you. So there's something going on in the financial market that's obviously out of control. Next, if so, and there are no projects, then it means that Plomin C underground storage of gas or LNG terminals can be financed by that capital. It's big projects that are ready to invest. I didn't suggest that domestic banks would be owed to the state through bonds, but to the citizens. Yes, you're doing the right thing to leave banks with capital to finance the economy. But you see, they didn't finance it, but they took a lot of that capital out, and you were out there in charge of it so they could track the economy. And now the money achieved in Croatia is financed by entrepreneurship in other countries. That's what's not good. It's somewhere in the hole system that it went through. If the Croatian postal bank is to be recapitalised, two proposals – let Croatia's insurance capitalise on the HPB and transfer the total state deposits to HPB. Well, we won't have to sell anything. And in the end, you're right, big investments and funding only from abroad. That's really true. But haven't we made too many promises that we haven't made so many times why these big foreign investments don't come? I repeat, we blocked our Russian investments with our own sloppyness and incorrect setting to foreign investors.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22353	Minister Linic responds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22354	I'm just going to tell you an example... The system here you have neighbouring Slovenia buying shares to each other. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Insurance was buying, I don't know roads or anything. Now you see where they are. Even the banks bought each other. It is not a model at the time when everyone is in trouble, and Croatia's insurance should also fight for a position on the market, it should be invested in business. It has serious competitors on the Croatian market, not to deal with stockholders' capital transactions. Therefore, everyone has a choice this government is trying to tell us what we need. On the other hand, if we do so, we will increase 170 billion more now, 5 billion health care, so when we count all the guarantees by the hotels we've given, so when we add up to the Croatian Railways, when we add up the problems of paying off the highways very quickly, we'll be up to 200 billion debt. And that just means interest growth. Well, great, we'll have the budget to pay the interest. So let's try to figure out there's not enough rapid growth to start paying back the debts. And that's why we have to cut them down and the battle to cut debts is one of the policies to have less expenditure. Okay, time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22355	You've had half a minute, but there may be opportunities in response to another replica now held by the respected Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22356	Thank you. Well, here's Mr. Minister. You mentioned... and an example of Slovenia, where Slovenia is today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I think that we will all agree that Slovenia is still significantly north of Croatia and that many of us would like to be guided by Slovenia's example, regardless of the state of a particular crisis Slovenia is in today's state but on the other hand, Slovenia with such policy preserved its national and economic substrate, preserved it in almost 90% of its share, unlike the Republic of Croatia that flew in wherever it could give to anyone, and then the poster to sell, give or allocate very cheaply. You mentioned fiscalization, here I was, there was no way to say it, so I told you again what I said about fiscalization and the rest, I was left unclear what would bring us, for example, fiscal cashiers in large shopping centers. It will cost tens and tens of millions of kuna, huge retail traffic will be transferred to the IRS, does anyone expect the malversions to occur in these large retail chains? So, the whole control system is going to get heavy and what results are we going to get? Claim that large chains steal the state from the sale of yogurt, milk or other retail products? So isn't this, for example, the introduction of a fiscal register into these large organized retail systems actually one ordinary pointless thing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22357	Minister Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22358	Okay, it is your right to think that Slovenia is in a great situation because it has ownership of all its companies that have caused a banking downturn in Slovenia at the moment, banks are in no time at all. But, well, you think it's the right thing to do, we have a different situation. We have a privatization of companies, which, times successful, which times fails, we have stable banking systems, stable. And by that we differ significantly. But for you, the better is the Slovenian model, your thing. For this government thanks to the previous governments we have a stable banking system and we are guarding this stable banking system because it helps both the security of citizens and the security of companies. You're talking about fiscalization, so it's your right to think that we can really allow cash payments without control and expect us to have honesty. In the Ministry of Finance and the Croatian Government, it is the view that we do not have control over cash operations, that we have enormous money that does not stop and tax obligations are not paid, that this is the reason for the enormous wealth of many who are living in this way and is reducing revenues to the state budget. But what is the biggest problem is there are honest, responsible entrepreneurs who work and who pay their tax obligations and there are those who are incorrect and who abuse the fact that the state does not control the system. And they actually get rich in person, they don't care about their workers, and at the same time they destroy quality. These are the objections of foreign investors that we have a system that we don't control and that there are a lot of those who play unfair games. Yes, fiscalization will stop all of this, and that's why it has to be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22359	And the last replica, the esteemed Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22360	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, when you talk about financial consolidation, no matter what we look at it differently, I don't think anyone can argue that it holds water. You're the finance minister and you know a lot about it. But I listen very carefully to you and I have the impression that when you talk about an economy of foreign investment to strengthen the correction of the entrepreneurial climate on the strengthening of the private sector there are many weaknesses. And the impression that there aren't those in the government who follow you into what you're doing in terms of financial consolidation. It seems to me that there is a predominant position in the government simply the minister of finance who is and I will dare say very honestly and politically and intellectually above the part that deals with the economy. And for this reason, we have today a situation where the stabilisation of finance is implemented, however, this does not follow the measures necessary to strengthen the economy. And as long as that is the situation in the government, as long as you do your job and this other side does not do what would be necessary, we will have difficulties and there will be doubts that economic growth will not be the way you announced.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22361	The reply to the replica, Minister Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22362	The government is still a body where teamwork is done. And try to understand everything if you don't do teamwork none of it will work. Therefore, we may be a little faster in some reforms, but let us be honest, personally, I believe that the Ministry of Finance has been well organized and that it could respond with its and human resources to all the demands of the government for reforms. And there we were a little faster than the rest of the ministry, which we'll see in the coming years. But what I also want to say in the financial consolidation of the reception sector, which is most important for the government, is not just the Ministry of Finance. There are all ministers, all ministries and maritime and transport and tourism and the economy and small and medium-sized craftsmanship, together formed an enormous team of people who are constantly conducting negotiations with each individual entity, who is constantly conducting negotiations with every banking system or every bank because we aim to have as many joint decisions as possible on consolidation. With HUP, we are now agreeing that we have joint teams because the other private sectors are also believers somewhere and we need that consolidation. So the whole system is set up on that part. The government's message of 50 billion, we're putting all our claims into consolidation of the company. But that's our argument so we can negotiate with both banks and other creditors. We're all fighting in that part. It's going to be the hardest decision because these decisions we have to say that we believe- we don't believe, we're looking for a new partner, we're putting in a new partner, and that's the model where we're going to speed up the processes, we're going to speed up the changes. ...the traffic has no way of going into privatisation, through financial consolidation of the private sector directly, direct insertion of a foreign partner. It's not just the Ministry's authority that's going to be doing it by the Ministry of Maritime Affairs. So the entire government teams are working on things like this, and without it, we can't do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22363	We're continuing the club debate. In the name of the HNS club will speak for the esteemed Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22364	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. So when we talk about the budget, it's not a bad thing to rely on numbers, and it would be good to look at the whole structure of the budget to know where it comes from when it comes to the budget. So in this regard, I will provide one piece of information that should determine most of our discussions on the budget if we really want to discuss the budget metrically. In fact, interest this year amounting to 9 billion 486 million kuna and debt payments of 18 billion 877 million kuna, so the total debt amounts to 28 billion 363 million kuna, which accounts for 23% of the total budget. So almost a quarter of this budget is going to pay off the debt and in such conditions it is necessary to look at the realities and possibilities of this budget. What's left of the proponent of the budget? These are actually the principles and basic characteristics of this budget. This is the recovery of this very unfavourable situation, which is a savings that should not endanger social security, therefore moderate savings if it is sustainable and of course with some little space left to invest in order to keep the total deficit of the state budget within the tolerated limits and this budget has been done in its 2013 projection. So, the budget keeps the deficit of the state budget in this plan at 3.1%, which is a significant decline compared to 2011. Of course, it couldn't continue to go into the deficit reduction, but it's somewhere at the limit of the parent criteria, so it's in these circumstances something that's completely understandable. This budget has just this year, in these difficult circumstances, a very awkward previous feature, or obligation, which is the growth of the principal debt debt debt in the narrow sense of the word from 5 billion 300 to 11 billion 500. So only the debt payment this year jumps from last year to over 6 billion kuna, which, of course, makes almost 5% of the budget, and that's one very unfavourable circumstance. As regards additional burdens on the budget that have not been present in recent years, these are aids to international organisations, and in fact it is about the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union funds, which in 2013 grow to billions and 740 million kuna, expecting, of course, that amount to be enriched, although not in 2013, but in the years thereafter, we expect that these billions and 700 million kuna will be returned from 2 or 2 and a half, up to 3 times the multiplier factor. So it's kind of an investment in the future, of course, assuming that the state will be able to withdraw not only what it has paid, but funds that will be two to three times that amount. In such circumstances, the budget is in charge of achieving these objectives of social security and investment growth by 8 billion kuna more, but counting on that payment that I was just talking about, we are actually in a situation that the debt of the state, not the debt of the state, is actually not going to grow much, and this is also an important strategic goal that this budget achieves. So in such circumstances to achieve these goals, to preserve the deficit somewhere at the level of masticht and not to increase the significant government debt, it is indeed a great achievement. Most of the ministries are based on it, of course, to stagnate or fall on the spending side, and those ministries that grow on the spending side are mostly ministries, which is the growth that is necessary again because of the recovery of some previous relations or because of investments that are trying to encourage them from that state level, so I will also list these examples in this budget. So the Ministry of Economy on its budget is growing from 357 million kunas to 2 billion and 99 million kunas, but unfortunately that part could not be used to boost the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, but a large part of that billion and 10 million kunas are going to restructure the shipyard. The work and task that should have been done earlier has not been done, and the burden of over a billion kuna has fallen to this government and this budget in 2013. However, this ministry of competitiveness projects increases the item of 117 billion kuna, and the development of the energy sector by a total of 709 million kuna, which is, in these circumstances, these relative figures that we are talking about a large amount. The Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts, whose budget grows from 354 to 659 million kuna, does not spend the remaining amount on consumption and internal costs, but on economic co-operation and the promotion of new technologies. The Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning is also growing by 29%, but this amount is used to promote social, encouraging housing, which should of course enable the resolution of housing issues and improving citizens' standards, but of course part of participating in the growth of investments in the Republic of Croatia, and of course for important legalization work here we have an item that has been increased by 37 million kuna, which is once again the adjustment of the conditions for a more orderly state, and finally for encouraging and creating conditions for better investment. When we add that Croatia leads to an increase in investment by 944 million kuna or nearly a billion kuna, and Croatia's roads with slightly more than billions of kuna, then we are really coming to an area that concerns countries and their opportunities at this time contained in the budget, and not in some other measures opens up an investment space, but, of course, the fundamental truth remains that, in these circumstances, real investment growth can only come in the private and real sector, and of course, the state can only in some way encourage and bridge that period, until the growth of private capital investment begins, regardless of whether domestic capital or foreign capital. So these are the conditions in which this budget is brought, the budget is optimal, it of course does not plan big growth, it is not possible to expect it, with inflation planned at something lower than last year, and with minimal expectations of growth, it is precisely on those 4 or how much the budget grows, that is, what should be sustainable, and of course it should be expected not only to be maintained but to be based on the measures that the government has taken so far and the space for greater growth, of course, which, as we know, will depend on the circumstances in which the state is located, given the external conditions. So this budget is actually almost the only one possible on these principles that I was talking about, it does not endanger state finances, it does not endanger the social stability of citizens, but by seizing out a little more than 3%, but for pensions, pension security is increasing by about 1%, which is thus preserving approximately the same level of standards in these very unfavourable circumstances, therefore that is also the social dimension of this budget. Based on all this I said, the Club of HNS Representatives will support the budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22365	Thank you. We have three replicas. Dear Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22366	Dear fellow Radoš, the budget is indeed a set of figures but a basic political document. And these numbers can be interpreted differently. We're projecting GDP growth by 1.8%, reminding me it was last year, so we had a 2.3% drop. There has been an announcement of the specks of investment, and we didn't have virtually any major investment that would trigger the economy. We had only 15 million kunas from two ministries that should have been turned to revitalising aid to small and medium crafts. On the other hand, we have again planned a deficit like this year, moving 10.9 billion kuna. I understand that there's also the payment of the principal, there's the payment of interest, but this budget also provides for a new debt of nearly 22 billion kuna. When all this is summed up we're practically stuck in the same place, we don't solve the basic problem. This problem cannot be addressed again, I cannot address it here in Mark's square and it is necessary to balance this budget, turn it to local self-government, turn it to regional self-government and to neglected regions of Croatia and something local. Well, I'd like the most in this budget is that promised juvie birth certificate since you too well-known Đakovo, where last year the Minister of Health said that this year is not in the budget but will make sure that the school's birth certificate is finally working. To finally be, for example. finishes that Đakovo-Požega road that is being restored, especially that section between Đakovci villagers and Livanjska varoši that has been restored for the last 15 years by patching up, you yourself are witnessing what it looks like. And I hope that these billions of kuna increases in Croatian roads will be directed there right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22367	The replica matches the esteemed Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22368	Col. Vinkovic, the problem with our policy is often that the figures are interpreted, and some figures are simply not interpreted because they are what they are. So these figures that I was talking about, so the ratio of the repayment of the principal and interest of 28 billion kuna to the total budget of the Republic of Croatia by making 23%, that's something that can't be interpreted, it's just like that. Of course, we can discuss the budgets of the local self-government units, I really hope so, and I would like to say that the issue of the student maternity centre is not a matter of the state budget, but that the fiscal capacity of the county and the city is such that the issue can be resolved on its own and I hope that we will come to that. But here I can express hope together with you that part of the investment amounting to a billion kuna from the position of the Croatian roads will indeed be found on this road Đakovo-Požega. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22369	Second replica, colleague Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22370	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You told your colleague, Rados, that this budget is the only one possible on these principles. I absolutely agree with you, the only thing I don't think are good principles, these principles are nowhere but nowhere in Europe has shown good, nowhere has this policy of asterity shown results, and will not thank God in Croatia either. Among other things, you spoke of moderate savings as something the budget must catch. This moderate saving is in beautiful normal words without euphemism called misery and translation of the word asterity, one of the translations is shortages and misery. Such budgets push most Croatian citizens, a good part of Croatian citizens in misery. It can't be a good budget to push its citizens into misery. It saves itself when it's there, that's what smart people do, and when it doesn't, then it's a denial first of what you really don't need, and after a very short time like what happened to us and what you really need, but there it is, there is no education. There's no money, so we're not gonna educate kids or educate them less or educate them worse. The day before tomorrow, the teachers will tell us that by strike. You said it was a great achievement that all these aspects were balanced. Is the achievement to make us worse. We live in a generation today whose children live worse than their parents. It hasn't happened here in 50 years that children live worse than parents and we're proud of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22371	The replica matches the esteemed Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22372	So, if a colleague Vuljanic believes that the principle of budget recovery is not the right principle, then it would be the principle of further unmoderate and irresponsible spending. That's when it's saved, and when it's gone, it's spent what's not there. That would be the principle, so this principle would lead us instead of reducing the wage mass, which of course does not mean a reduction in wages by about 3% to government bankruptcy and a 30% reduction in wages that happens these days in Greece, a country facing state bankruptcy. So if that's the principle and it's a policy to advocate, then you, Mr. Vuljanic, just keep going. It is this way that although it is probably true that we are living worse today than our parents, it is this time that maybe our children will live better than we do, that after 3 or 5 years of irresponsible spending they would not face bankruptcy and a fall in incomes in the public sector by 30%, which actually means then, of course, the fall probably of all other incomes. As for the impact on certain sensitive sectors, I am entirely on the side of what the Prime Minister said when he said that he hoped that the next budget, the 2014 budget would be such that it would not be, would have a sign of linear reduction, but would have the strength to base investment and increase budgets on exactly those segments such as the education you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22373	Thank you. And the last replica of the respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22374	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I need to rereference Mr. Radosh's claims about restructuring the shipyard and the obligations of this year's next year's budget related to this because he said that this shipbuilding work should have been done much earlier. I'd say it was done just as much as it was supposed to be done if it was about the last government. In fact, I remind you that we had to make a great effort to open it, but we also closed chapter 8. So this means doing the whole job of making all possible plans for restructuring the shipyard. That this also confirms the fact that the government in this regard had full and absolute and unanimous support from the National Committee for the Monitoring of Negotiations headed by Mrs Vesna Pusic, vice-president as far as I know HNS, now the first Deputy Prime Minister. And not a single objection by the Council or the Committee was made to the work that the previous Government was working on for restructuring. Of course, from this position I'm speaking of today, you can ask the question of what was done after last year's election. So, you've been done all this year. And so we could ask questions indefinitely, until September or, more specifically, 21.9.00. when the government of Mr. Ivica Racan made a decision on taking over the property of certain legal persons. So, shipyards. My colleague Linic, Mr Linic certainly remembers that. So we're not going anywhere to discuss what someone did or didn't do. It is important to discuss what is today and to discuss how, on 1 July 2013, to become a member of the EU, and Croatia's commitment in this context, is exactly that. To finish this big job by July 1st next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22375	And this line will be answered by the esteemed Jose Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22376	So I'm restructured the shipyard actually not mostly in the context of what had to be done, but only faced with the fact that an increase in the economy ministry's budget of about 2 billion unfortunately has to go to those, from 1,000 million to one billion to that job, respectively. Mrs. Kosor, I appreciate your efforts in the negotiations and the fact that the government you led finished one job that first started Racan's government, and then led by some other governments. But the restructuring of the shipyard was not necessarily a technical job that is related to our integration into the EU. That political wisdom, knowledge and skills could then be restructured by shipyards without the EU's context. It would be nice because Linic would have a billion kuna at his disposal, and the foreign ministry, or the government, would have no difficulty in restructureing the shipyard that is still in the conditions that the EU is setting for us today. Therefore, it was not necessary to wait for the EU context and the European Commission's request. We could have done this job before, and you as Deputy Prime Minister in the six-year term and Prime Minister for two years could have made a significant contribution to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22377	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. Now the Club is a national minority and respected representative Nedzad Hodzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22378	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with his associates, dear colleagues and colleagues. The National Minority Representatives' Club will support the proposed State Budget for 2013 with budget projections for 2014 and 2015 believing that it will achieve its basic objectives, which are primarily to preserve the stability of state finances, preserve existing jobs and through state and private investment growth of gross national product and achieve and create new jobs. We believe that the measures taken this year have created a prerequisite for the planned growth to be achieved and that it will be sufficient to encourage the creation of new jobs, and thus reduce the number of unemployed. It is clear that a slightly higher growth rate would be a greater guarantee of new jobs, but at this point, even in this overall European environment, any growth in gross domestic product would give further optimism to entrepreneurship and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The growth rates of 3.5% are foreseen, and we firmly believe and are realistic in 2014 and 2015 are certainly a guarantee of new jobs and reductions in the number of unemployed. These rates will be achieved thanks to large investments in energy such as among other thermal power plants Plamin C. The importance of such capital investments should in all of us create the need to support such projects because they are of exceptional importance to the Republic of Croatia. With the preservation of the largest ecological standards, it should be known that ideally clean air and industrial development and job creation are neither in China nor in Germany nor in Croatia. In the 2013 budget, it is particularly looking forward to the fact that despite the 5 billion kuna coming next year on interest, commitment to the EU budget and shipbuilding, which was not in the current year the government budget deficit in absolute terms is growing slightly. Also, the projections for 2014 and 2015 show the desire to stabilise state finances, and we sincerely hope that all of us as a Croatian society as a whole in the coming years will be in a position to serve not only interest but also the main credit obligations that we currently have from the revenues of the state budget without further borrowing. Members of national minorities as well as other citizens of the Republic of Croatia need, above all, a stable, secure and perspective society and we believe that in the very near future, the Republic of Croatia will become one. We also fully understand today's debate in which some colleagues pointed out dissatisfaction with certain items in the budget. I will only comment on our position on the total resources with which the Government of the Republic of Croatia through the Council for National Minorities is funding cultural autonomy for members of national minorities. In the 2013 budget, these funds are reduced by 6 percentage points compared to the 2012 budget. That's why we're not happy and happy, but we're not unhappy. And we understand that as one of the measures that goes towards stabilising the entire state finances and we will support that. Finally, once again, and in line with the position that we unanimously expressed on the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities, the Club of Representatives of National Minorities will support the proposed 2013 Budget and the projections of the 2014 and 2015 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22379	Thank you very much. That's how we exhausted the list of clubs that were reported for discussion. Now we're moving on to an individual debate of ten-minute MPs. He is the first respected representative, Josip Boric. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22380	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues. This Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes its second budget on the basis of the first. If they had no objection to what the first one had to do in juvie, they might have been resented for the circumstances in which this budget was taken into account, especially in view of what the government had done to people in all year of government behavior. How can we speak on their part today with visual and visible results when we can recall their last opposition speech on the 2011 budget? Do we in opposition have the right to speak in the same or similar way? Of course we do. Who cares, or I'd say the prime minister who even cares about this except politicians and some unionist. The budget for your knowledge adopted in 2011 under the rules of fiscal responsibility has been adopted and has not been changed, achieved in the context of all the bad prophecies of the then opposition corn coalition without an economic downturn, i.e. a minimum growth of 0.2%. The head of the opposition then, and today the prime minister said about such a budget is disappointment, bad for Croatia, pests. With dozens of cryers according to that position, he wondered if you were aware and counted, and I excluded some of his consciousness. So he wondered if you were aware that the drop of 2% of GDP that took place in 2010 was the absence of state policy and what damage does it do to Croatia? That was asked by the prime minister at the time, the head of the opposition and the head of the SDP. Today's Minister Linic has singled out several problems in the parliamentary debate at the time, and I have singled out only two of his own, let's say so. He singled out active investment measures that the budget must show, there he singled out energy and HZ and increased competitiveness of the Croatian economy by changing tax policy. By then, he announced a property tax, referring to a communal fee that needs to be changed. Some of the great people in power today have been giving criticism. The budget is made as in Afghanistan, the number of unemployed who was then 305,000 was named a disaster. The IMF called and early elections. One parliamentary representative asked himself, "Is paying the wages something to be clapped for when making the budget?" Today's minister in his debate gave us a lesson on freedom and wondered if freedom was of value? How free are the unemployed who were then 305,000. Is there any fear among the pensioners of the inability to live because of small pensions? So he continued, the budget is like a ID card, everything speaks at first sight. So he continued further, increasing in liquidity and unemployment is the way to go without going back. Back then, HDZ coalition partners called the chair guards the ruling coalition and the autistic housing of a building that is collapsing. So he courageously claimed then that the budgetary Croatia was burdened with entrepreneurship Croatia and happily then concluded and called the then HDZ government a group of 4Ns – incompetence, ignorance, unhappiness and irresponsibility. Why did I have to say this at the beginning of my 2013 budget presentation? We're two years older today, we're in the same place, in some different roles. We're talking about the 2013 Budget. How's the weather today? Have we changed as a society since 240 billion kuna was spent? Are we better? Were our citizens naive at 12 months last year? Are they still free of fear today? Is that even the value to talk about? Has today's prime minister become aware that the decline in GDP in 2012 is 2% of the absence of state policy and is causing damage to Croatia? I'll try to answer in my debate. Looking at the figures and ingenuity of the government, I reject the Kukuriku coalition as an important possible GDP growth announced in this year of 1.8%. The evidence to support this is this year where a 1.6% of GDP drop will have a positive impact on the budget that will collect as a result of such a forecast of 3 billion kuna more than in 2011 when it is recorded I say small growth. As far as new taxes are concerned, the authorities say they will not be, but will be called a property tax, and what has been obtained by decisions so far will not be changed because the rights acquired by the state are not changed, I mean here at the VAT level of record and self-destructive 25%. So the corn government predicts a new 3 billion kuna of VAT compared to this year's reach, bread, milk gets a 5% VAT, which, according to this budget proposal, means 3 billion kunas more to the state, 3 billion kunas to less citizens. The second largest revenue from the budget is the contributions planned for 1.1 billion kuna more as a result, according to the government's commitment to employment and better billing. It is always good to talk about higher employment, especially when a hundred employment measures by Minister Mrsic contribute daily to the Croatian Employment Service, where the number of unemployed has turned into a kilometer and counts only by higher numbers. It reached 346 thousand today, a February 2012 record. I must admit that I was also optimistic about this, and the government denied me because in that debate I then said it would be at the end of the 12th month. As far as income is concerned, the conclusion is that we've become a state of VAT and contributions, and everything else is nuances. The state has become its own purpose, and 900 thousand poor people with such a budget will fall from the brink of survival into the abyss. As for expenditure, it is clear that everything is to be spent and more and more, and that is only what the SDP says 10 billion kuna. As last budget said that there was no longer debt and debt debt, and the debt of the central state alone this year increased by 20 billion kuna, it may be best to skip and wish that many budget users do not lose their rights and their money due to such optimism about borrowing and the following year. It is known that the controlled deficit this year was paid by teachers and teachers, and delayed investments. The expenditure is part of the government's jump into citizens' wallets in a way that limits their rights to numerous amendments to the law. As it seems, let's ask the police, teachers, and teachers, to them less, perhaps even more obedient ones. What else to say about this budget. Large economists say the A4 paper format on which several income figures are written is sufficient, and then expenditures are a sweet concern. Everything here writes nicely in article 1 of this law where it says we'll take more as a state, we'll spend the states, they say numbers, and about saving and cutting expenditure may be talked about by the 6th month of next year after the local elections, because savings are only valid for teachers and teachers anyway, and everyone else can start spending from 1.1.2013 because we'll already owe 10 billion kuna on that day. And what do you say to the citizens at the end? This power is certain, the little charms of these coalition partners around taxes that no one has seen are just a play for the people. The strength of the chair and the half-tronic position of some smaller parties who do not want the right to think before the pre-election year are the guarantee that such a budget will be passed. And at the end of the messages to the citizens no matter what you think, no matter how you prepare for the 2013 welcome, prepare yourself to have less in 2013 and you will live harder, and whether you were naive and believed in a better life with the Kukurik coalition about each citizen clearing up with himself, because I have long been a long time ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22381	Thank you, Your Honor. We have two replicas. The first replica and respected representative of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22382	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Here is my colleague, Boric, speaking of the number of unemployed who, of course, was rightly a subject, and when we discussed the 2011 budget, is that right, and in this assembly, he mentioned a number of 305,000, I would like to say that today's figure is just 346 thousand 239 unemployed. So it's quite a figure that needs to make us all serious in that sense, since we're politicians, yes, and when we're in a position and when we're in power, we represent the same weights, same values, the same ideas, whether our position has changed or not. And so here I would quote and something Mr. Linic's finance minister whose moves, some of the moves in particular in the summer, this summer regarding the publication of taxpayers personally supported, but when we made in the government, let's say a decision on raising VAT by 1% Mr. Linic said in one small interview it's hard to comment on all the nonsense that the current government is doing, I don't get to say what I think, and they're already proposing another rate, the SDP is against increasing VAT, tax reform is necessary but not such, tax burden needs to be distributed differently and not in any way introducing new taxes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22383	Thank you, too. Next replica and respected representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22384	Thank you, Mr. President. It's a little comical for me to listen to what HDZ is saying to the SDP, that's what he said to HDZ in the past term and the previous SDP said to the HDZ, almost the same sentences with the same resolution and equally right. Just as right. Is it possible that someone in this country is going to think in some near time that something is wrong with the system, in which 12, 15 years of the same remarks, different teams, the same system, they're changing their insults and opinions, and no one has thought to say anything, so let's try to do something different, this doesn't make any sense, this doesn't give any results, that 10 billion budget deficits to one government, 10 billion to the other, then you're fighting each other over who's worse or better spent the deficit. It just doesn't make sense. The fact is, we don't have to spend what we don't have, but there's money in this country, but where there's money nobody wants to mention. Whoever runs this country, the banking system we're proud of is stable. We can be proud that we don't have him as a Romanian prime minister who's well established we don't have problems with banks, you know we don't have any banks. No bank is ours. There is money, but those with the money they have, none of the authorities dare to touch it, so maybe we should change the system of government of this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22385	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22386	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Vuljanić, first of all, I did not want to offend anyone, so I took a phonogram and listed everything that was said at the time, I took out just a little, what I think is important to us all to understand our work and what is often heard here, that nothing begins with us or ends with us. That's why I took some moments out of that debate at the time. However, looking at the 2012 budget, looking at the 2013 budget and looking at the programmes, it is clear that the budgets from year to year are kind of being copied and I don't see in this 2013 budget a lot of new activities, some new programmes, so that this would testify that some former government was bad. Mostly all activities are in 99%, and there are thousands of activities and programs in this document on 300 pages where it is clearly seen that the policy is determined to have continuity. The fact that budget items are less obvious to be trying to save, but how then to say to the outside that everything was wrong before, that everything before was bad, and then in a document that needs to prove it, to copy all these same activities and carry out all these powerful programs and activities, and not do anything but reduce certain or increase certain items. That's what I wanted to talk about, and that's why I compared the Prime Minister's statement, which he said in 2010, when the 2011 budget was being made, if you are aware that the 2% of GDP drop is the absence of state policy and what damage it does to Croatia. We have such a fall this year, which I should say now, Mr. President, it is the result of the absence of state policy and it does damage the Republic of Croatia. That is why I have appealed to it, and I believe that I have tried to contribute to my debate that this budget for 2013 is better, but that we are all discussing in a circle of what it really says here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22387	Thank you, too. Now respected Slavko Linic, Minister of Finance of the Republic of Croatia on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22388	Does this government do nothing about the situation in the economy and the situation in the economy that is important for economic development? Then we must try to see if the Croatian word increase and replacement are the same. Raise 1% of VAT means to increase, but reduce 2 index points on health and increase 2 index points on VAT in the mass of the budget means the same. In the mass of the budget, it means the same thing. According to this, the government's policy is clear, discharging the economy, and this discharging that we have not yet had economic growth, we compensated through VAT growth. That's the difference, there's no increase. There is a tax swap policy and the government clearly assumes responsibility that the economy is given an incentive of 2 index points. 3 billion kuna this year, less commitment to the economy. 3 billion kuna more in VAT. It's a substitute for tax policy, it's not an increased tax policy. At the same time we're talking, it's important that we sit down and it's important that we can raise up whatever we want to spend. No, this year the ministry's demands were 3.5 billion more than you find in the budget. 3.5 billion. Yeah, there were real projects, there was a battle to throw the agricultural envelope, it was all on the table, but we decided all of us sitting here to respect the fiscal rule and we don't have the right to spread expenditure. We have no right. Yeah, that's what we decided here. That's why there's no room for that 3.5 billion in the state budget and no one is given as much as they want. No one. And that's why there's no pleasure in this budget because here was the battle to preserve how we think about cost control and we still see that we have problems about it, and on the other hand to try to keep the system in place. Thus, we differ significantly when we talk about what economic policies are. Also, I repeat for the tenth time, the Financial Business Act, the Law on Pre-profit settlement, speaks as much as the kuna in the budget is important to us because it will reduce the deficit, however important it is, because then we can also get some project through the budget through, we say all the claims that are not charged to this day, all of us, we put in function of the private sector, we put in place that they are recovering, that they are starting to produce, that they are starting to invest, that they can borrow and begin to create this increase. So it's an active government policy, we don't see passively what's going on. However, we are active in this, the entire government is engaged in this simple project. Then let's move on. Yeah, yeah. It's not easy to hear 346 000 unemployed at the office. That's not an easy piece of information. Yes, but that's where we differ significantly. Are we going to talk about trade associations of Croatian railways, highways, Croatian roads, highway Zagreb – Rijeka, Croatian waters, HEP, forests. Do we have too many employees there? Compared to standards, we have commercial business, we have. And whether because we have too many employees we don't have business results, we don't. We don't have our own funds for investment. Is that true? Yeah, that's true. And what is this government doing? Fight the problem of structural reforms, fight. How to convert from such failing systems systems that will have profit and that gain will be able to invest in investments. Yeah, that's something we fight every day. That's why we unfortunately have more unemployed. Do these governments differ significantly? Yes, one supported the employment system, companies became ballast. There's no investment. This government is trying to fight structural changes so they can strengthen the investment system. Are those big changes? They did. These are huge changes, big changes. And, yes, unpopular changes. Unpopular, but everything is put into function of the battle for Croatia's development because what we want after we recover these systems we want them to invest and we want them to hire people. The private sector will be the one to be employed in such investments. Without your own resources, there's no investment. Therefore, you will allow the government's programmes are a completely different discharge of the economy, moving it to the burden of citizens. On the other hand, to train the assets, and these assets are also companies in the domain of infrastructure and energy and put them into function... citizens and their employment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, these are major changes. Part of you doesn't see it. So why? You didn't even learn, because simply you'd make bigger wages, you'd make social programs through employment, inefficient employment. Of course, then we have problems with the height of the deficit, then we have problems with... Even that battle reduces the deficit, reduce the deficit by 4 billion kuna this year, reduce the simple deficit despite the fact that we haven't touched the salaries of 4 billion kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not a success for you, is it? Reduce total expenditure by more than 1 billion. Well, that doesn't mean much to you either. But these are important changes, these are important changes where citizens still need to see that it seems from the government an effort to change the situation. But it's your right to think that some other policy could get better results, but we've never seen them before.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22389	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We've got a line of replicas coming up. The first replica and respected representative Josip Boris. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22390	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, perhaps you haven't listened to me since the beginning. I looked back in my debate on what you said as SDP in 2010 when the 2011 Budget was being adopted, and I said nice about who was saying what, and I think that today here we finally agreed that you were also in favour of higher wages, and for more employment, that you called 305,000 unemployed a disaster, a trip to a non-refundable. That's how it was. Let's get a phonogram. Now, now you're in power to speak differently. It's legitimate, but then I asked myself if it's legitimate that we, in opposition, point to something that we think isn't right. If you think 25% of VAT is a good thing for the economy maybe we don't think in HDZ or maybe I personally don't think it's good, regardless of what you've fired those two index points on health contributions. The results of the economy show that the number of unemployed is increasing, there are no more employees, there are fewer. Why isn't the economy responding? Why you've been yelling at the businessmen for almost a year now? Start hiring. What are you waiting for? We fired you two billion. Is that true? But they won't. Why? Because we became the most expensive country in the region. Everything we buy is much more expensive than in all the surrounding states. Every material, every hall, is more expensive. People live harder whether we admit it or not. It's not easy for them every day to single out a dozen or twenty kunas more in the store because it's all gathered together. We may have high wages, but those in relation to the standard are not enough to meet basic needs. It wasn't before. However, the tax burden that has increased with VAT clearly shows as a short-term effect that more funds have been raised, that another three billion will be taken according to your forecasts. I don't think it will, that it'll be less because people don't want to spend their money anymore because they're getting expensive. If the lords will respond to that measure of yours, I would be pleased. However, they showed, say, a measure of two kunas more per litre of gasoline. So we've got 500,000 cars down the highway. Did that get the highway in trouble? Yeah, maybe more than the number of employees. That's a fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22391	Thank you very much, Your Honor. The next replica is also the esteemed representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22392	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, you said that the same 2 percent off the health contribution and 2% on VAT. Financially, it's the same thing, I'm sure. The budget is completely neutral. The budget got as much money as he wanted. But it's not the same by which you took and who you gave and what you got for it. With an increase in VAT of 2.5% you took the largest circle of citizens, you took all of us and yourself among other things. With these 2% you've taken off your health contributions you've given to the owners, our entrepreneurs who should've opened new jobs with it. Because when this law was being discussed, I said that I would thank the megaphone here in front of the church outside for every job that opens because of those two percent off. None of them opened, but they shut down the next 20, 30, as many as a thousand. You know, no one's chosen anyone here or anywhere else to explain why we're not doing anything and why we're doing so badly. That's what every citizen can explain to himself, believe it one way or another, here people are chosen, all of us including you to do something, to make people live better. And the year has passed and the bright future never appears on the other side of the tunnel. No more locomotives, no more nothing, no lights there at all. We live here better than our parents. My colleague, Rados, may have misunderstood me, but our children live worse and our children will live worse than we do. It's a tragedy of this society. No matter how nice these beautiful, fat books are to me, graded or unjudged.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22393	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Branko Bačić. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22394	Mr. Minister, in your last address, you wanted to show us here in the assembly how this government is implementing how you said a reasonable economic policy, and you cited several moves made by the government in the section relating to legislation that addresses the issue of the economy in Croatia. But I have to tell you as much as you try and have good intentions to us or in opposition, and I don't know the entire Croatian public clearly what this government will encourage next year. We expected from you, and above all from Mr. Prime Minister when he represented the budget, to say what Croatian citizens, primarily Croatian entrepreneurs, were exporters, agricultural producers, all those working in any branch of the economy can expect in this year. Would the Government, and that would be a fundamental message, seem to me also to me this budget, what activities, which branches of industry does this government intend to encourage? Is anything worth producing in this country? Is it a non-selective approach to any company, regardless of which branch of industry the solution to bankruptcy came from? Does any company that gets into trouble have to go bankrupt? Will the Government send a clear message to those who are involved in tourism, we will support those who are engaged in agriculture, those who decide to invest in the energy sector, so what and how does the Government intend to help a particular branch of activity survive? And another important thing, when you're talking about investment will boost development in Croatia, say what measures the government will implement and how it will boost investment if we have to stick around next year to encourage the economy and to stimulate GDP growth.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22395	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22396	Dear Minister Linic, you have now said in your statement that the government has placed everything in the role of the private sector. I'm sure that you've made some efforts and they're visible, but what's far more important than those efforts you've made is that you should subdue red tape to the private sector. You don't need money, you need will, you need mastery skills. All those who wanted to invest in Croatia know for themselves when they asked them what was their biggest problem, what are the biggest obstacles to investing their money in Croatia did not say it was the price of work, they did not say it was a working salary but they said it was bureaucracy and the second largest was tax uncertainty. In order for Croatia to move forward, and to make more energetic steps, it is absolutely certain that no one advocates some mass layoffs, but we advocate that the red tape that is numerous is finally starting to do its job. Bureaucracies in Croatia are doing everything in their power to get more and more undermining private entrepreneurs in wheels or to place their feet so that they fall and fall. The government without much investment with human resources and with the reorganisation of state services is absolutely certain that one big step can be made about what is said today very, very little.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22397	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22398	I thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Minister, you're justifying an increase in the number of unemployed public sector reforms. You are talking about restructuring HEP, HZ, Croatian Forests, Croatian Waters, but these new 50,000 unemployed from the same period last year did not come from the public sector, did not come from the state administration all of them from the private sector. So, you're talking about restructuring the public sector, it's not being implemented properly yet, and at the same time your private sector is failing. If the private sector fails tomorrow, the public will. I think it's clear to everyone. In the last line, you told me that the reforms were being carried out by you, that maybe some of the others in the government were going a little slower. Get those reforms in line, because if you don't comply with your tax measures, fiscal measures will choke private businesses. If we suffocating private business, then the whole society and the whole state is at stake.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22399	Thank you very much. And a response to the replica, respected Minister Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22400	I have to get back to you, because obviously Dalmatia, the Vesnik, as it is called, the closure of non-basic activities in HH, unfortunately bankruptcys, are all a large number of people, a very large number of people, and they are in the institution unfortunately our own, they are. Also, the Zagreb-Rijeka highway has implemented structural changes, has fired some of the people, therefore it is not only the private sector, to be understood immediately, it is also the structural changes that the government is conducting. No need to talk about other companies, more or less you know them all very well. And on the other hand, we're as different as governments, not with reforms because it's a tax press. So what's the tax press in? If we ask the businessmen when they pay the salary, pay the contribution, not only to pay that contribution in order to have a higher income in the budget, but also to pay a pension contribution to pension funds, which is citizens' money, that's not the state budget money. What we say when you pay the contribution then you're competitive with whoever did it, you say stop, don't do it, let the citizens who do business not pay taxes and contributions, and you say stop with those reforms. What other reforms we're introducing, we're introducing the right to bring down everyone who deals with food and drinks to 10% and now we're not going to control that traffic and we know it's cash traffic. So tell me what the problem is, why do you think we shouldn't do it? Why do you think it's a tax press? Well, it's not just income, so for the tenth time, it's a loyal game we have to control. Why do you think if others are slow, don't do it because you're hurting the economy. And it's not true. We do our job, but you think if someone does the same thing, it shouldn't work. The difference in politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22401	Thank you very much, Minister. Next replica and respected representative Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22402	Thank you very much, President. Ministers have mentioned the expected private investments here on several occasions, but I must point out that this budget has made some differences of the region from the region, so in this budget they have practically stopped further construction of the Sisak-Zagreb highway, it is not there. I asked the board today, they said no. The train connection of Sisak in a catastrophic state, it's practically gone. It's not, it doesn't exist, Sava hasn't been maintained for years, I don't attribute it to this government either, it's something that's been going on for years, but it's a simple fact. What's not yours, but it concerns the same industrial zone in Sisak's decommissioning gas network. Do you expect someone to invest a private investor when there's no complete infrastructure, there's just no, there's nothing. I'm sure no one will invest there. I need to look back at the part you mentioned about HH. Do we agree if there are any extra employees in HH? You noted that by standards that surplus exists. I can agree that there's an extra one, but by what standards. Well, the technological level, that's how HZ works today, so it didn't move from Mother Teresa when, when Croatia's railway started, the railways came to this place at all. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22403	Thank you very much. There's no answer, he doesn't want a minister. Next replica, and respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22404	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I would be very sorry if Minister Linic and my debate where I mentioned 346 thousand 239 employees on today, understood the unemployed wrongly, so I personally encourage you to carry out reforms, do your job, no one will tell you a single word, but the fact that the number of unemployed is growing and we can, and I personally who engage in the debate will be concerned about it. I remind you that in the second half of 2009, we made a decision, it was the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision to ban additional employment, including in the public enterprises you mention, and you rightly mention that there should work and dig and plow, but we also made a decision about banning employment, if you want to ban the purchase of cars and so on, action plans to fight corruption, reduction of wages, etc., so we have done a lot of jobs, let's say we took the right, and even ministers to pay for anything other than sleeping cards, i.e. the cost of official travel. So when we talk about employment, Mr. Minister, so you signed the budget in which you allowed the Prime Minister's office for next year, and he increased the funds this year because I was Prime Minister, so I had the Office of the Prime Minister, or Prime Minister, so you're allowing a new salary growth in the President's office and at the position of supporting the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia with a salary of 4 million to 5 million 125 thousand. So new employment of people who will support the government's work. So I don't understand at all what this extra employment is going to mean, but you're definitely signing that budget in which, and it's for one lip, but we certainly have a right to ask why.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22405	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22406	Not to mention the number of new employees both at the foreign ministry and in many other state bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22407	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22408	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Col. Linic, you said that the public sector, so public enterprises need to be restructured, that there are many employees, etc. So, counterpart Kosor told you about the government's 2009 decision, but you know very well that the union negotiation process takes a year and a half, two days to get rid of it and all that. Therefore, if you are already doing that job, then you would see it, somewhere it would say that the administrations of these public companies are negotiating with the trade unions, but unfortunately there is no such thing. But there's something very interesting. A company that may not count Croatian highways the most invested and even invested in a communal infrastructure that is very important, that is PLINACRO, has practically brought the whole of Croatia into a gas-supply situation and made the job with one member of the administration. Today, this PLINACRO, which practically created a service for future concessionaries to sell gas, has five members of the administration. Now it's in contradiction with what you're saying. I could get you out of here while you were in the position of opposition to HH, then your story was completely different. However, the key thing about HH is that you here in this House of Commons tell us what their employment ratio is today. As much as a kuna earned, they must profit from the state budget in order to live, not live. And counterpart Linic, one of the companies that implemented the restructuring, reduced the number of employees was FINA. It has cost them over the past years 100 and a few million kunas, however, which is a reward not for the management of the FINA, but for the people who work there. This government and this Parliament gave them a negative opinion... business. So the only company that's handled nearly a thousand employees, that's what FINA did, got a negative opinion for some of these reasons. The same job is done by Croatia's insurance company. Therefore, these gentlemen in the administration who have come, let the work be done and we shall read what kind of negotiations they are negotiating and what kind of restructuring we are conducting. You can't do this as a minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22409	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Tomislav Ivić. Last reported.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22410	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, you've lost your credibility for the good part. You're telling us the story you told a year ago and we're listening to the forecasts you told a year ago. Then you talked about 0.8% GDP growth, we know what happened and what will be the result this year. You talked about investment boom and investment in the public sector. What happened, nothing. Look at how people live today, compare it to the time of a year ago, you increased... by 10% over. How much energy prices have gone, how much inflation this year. And you're telling us the story again. I'd be happy that what you're saying will be confirmed in practice, but we'll see at the end of 2013 what the results will be. And you told a completely different story when you were in opposition. Remember those discussions in the 2011 budget, so you laughed at the data that GDP growth is 0.2%. Today you would be overjoyed if your GDP growth was 0.2%, not that it would be -1.8%. So much for your credibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22411	Thank you very much. Let's move on with the debate of individual representatives. It is now up to the honourable representative of Dragica Zgrebec, Vice President of the Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22412	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here, through these debates of clubs and individual debates, we actually compete over something that is reality, about something where we need to look the truth into the eyes and tell the situation is like that, and that's where we should go and none of that really deplace what it was or what it would be. But I will say that this 2013 draft budget is in continuity with the 2012 budget. What is continuing is that the economy needs to continue to be consolidated because only the growth of the economy and only in the private sector because the private sector is going into the investments that make the biggest profits. State investments are those investments that do not want the private sector, where the longer period of return is and where profitability is, in fact, weak. And in that sense, we actually need to look at what it means to consolidate the economy. It is not easy and precisely this increase in unemployment stems from the consolidation of the economy and it is not yet completed. It's going to slip through this year. It's a fact, it's our reality. We only passed at the end of this year, a few weeks ago we passed the Financial Business Act and pre-profit settlement. It is a way out for a large number of companies that perhaps in a small size of business with a smaller number of people can continue their business and grow in the future. And as possible, that is possible because the state will first stop with its claims through a pre-profit settlement to make all its claims available and agree that it will partially write them off, that it will partially enter into the ownership of such companies, but then it has the moral right to ask all other creditors to do so. In most of these companies, states and banks are the most religious. This means continuing the work of such business entities but also means the collection of a certain part of their claims. The consolidation of financial and fiscal consolidation, so that we continued in the way we went earlier, so to increase the VAT rate, increase or that additional contribution to salaries but have no effect in reducing some economic costs, we came to an end in 2011 with 15 billion deficits. By adopting the Fiscal Responsibility Act, such a situation is unsustainable. You have to do something. I'll repeat what this budget is based on. The expected recovery of economic activity was said, so cleaning all these economic ruins to get healthy tissue that can continue business tomorrow. This means a huge cost, which means a large number of unemployed who will have to be financed in part from both the state budget and through those benefits at the Employment Office but also through certain other social contributions or requalifications. That it's both discipline and fiscal and I was already talking about it. Changes in tax policy are also necessary because we have negotiated that we are entering the EU. We must stick to certain EU directives both with VAT and with some other taxes. So, excise duty, customs, etc. So, this also brings some budget costs, but on the other hand, it asks us to be more efficient in order to withdraw what we are offered from the EU budget and its funds more than we have done so far. And now let's try when I say let's face the truth, my colleague Radosh here started talking about the structure of the expenditure of the state budget, so I'm going to say a few of these items. Nothing new has been discussed in Parliament for years. They don't touch pensions, some fees to the citizens it's from child support to some social benefits and salaries. What is the share of these costs in the total budget? The peace of 29%, these payments, other payments that go towards citizens 22 and a half percent, pays 17%. And that the salaries in the nominal amount are a reduction in both 2012 and 2013. If the rest were left at this level, 20% of the budget would come, interest 8%. And now that you add it all together, you have 20 percent of how the rest of the budget is solved. What's new? So we have an increase in interest which are partly because more and more majors are coming to the charge, or more are anunites. On the other hand, we have this part that we have taken over through guarantees that have now entered public debt and have to be serviced in this way. So, through the budget not only through the collection of due guarantees. Thus, interest plus two billion, shipbuilding this year is based on the commitments undertaken, as well as the signed agreement, i.e. the Treaty with the EU of an additional 900 million kuna. The membership fee, i.e. the payment in the European budget of a billion and 700 million, and here you come at the opportunity of this increase in the deficits shown compared to 2012. But what seems to be where it's most important, which must give the greatest effect. That's what this little optimistic comes from, you say all the optimistic growth rate of 1.8%. So in 2012 and 2013, we will invest in the core capital of HBOR a billion and 550 million kuna. It's almost entirely that difference in core capital. If we had started with such dynamics as the last four, five years, it would have taken us another 10 years to pay the entire core capital to HBOR, and this is important because it became the only financial institution in Croatia, which is under more favourable conditions in the last year, so in this year, taking over and taking a certain risk of placements between 40 and 50% compared to earlier periods, helps the economy, helps to restructure. A fellow Linic here spoke of nearly 7 billion kunas heading towards those in need of help in the economy. Therefore, restructuring of the economy in order to be able to pay off certain unfavourable loans, as well as debts to suppliers in permanent crafts. But there's also a reprogramme of those models A and A+ for those business entities that are unable to pay off within the deadlines as it was when the model became operational. Additional investments in Croatian waters and Croatian roads increased by a billion kuna will also primarily benefit the construction sector which may be in the most difficult situation today. And when it is said that 618 million kunas have increased funds for projects which unfortunately in one part of this year will not be completed and will continue to be realised in the next year, so that one part will be transferred funds that will have to be paid in the next year, because the projects will be completed next year. So, one part of this I say to the optimism that we will have economic growth than is projected 1.8% or perhaps something lower is that in this very restrictive budget we find a lot of funds, and then through other sources such as the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the teaming of people for projects that we will still compete in pre-accession, tomorrow in the EU Structural Funds is actually real and gives hope that 2013 will end in a favourable way, and then in 2014 there must really be real recovery and growth in the Croatian economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22413	Thank you very much. Minister Slavko Linic wants on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22414	Mr. President, I have a feeling it's important to talk about programs... in order to support the economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I really think it's an important political message in that part, it's really important. We're saying we've given a lousy 2.5 billion, this year 3 billion businesses, we have a larger number of unemployed. We've taken off some parafiscal charges. It doesn't matter about unemployment again. Now we're asking ourselves a question and what if the economic sector, if the private sector hadn't been given the opportunity to pay back to the state through the reprogrammes of more than 5.5 billion kuna tax liabilities? ... The possibility is that they can be orderly towards the Croatian state. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Yes, there is also the possibility that through the pre-departure procedure to negotiate with the creditors and, again, both the state and other banks and other creditors will be able to negotiate in some way the consolidation of these debtors. You've got the wood sector here. We're very little talking about the wood sector. We'll list as many companies as you want who owe enormous money to Croatian forests because they're not paid. They owe the suppliers because they don't pay. And all they've invested in equipment are bank loans that don't come back. Yeah, that's the situation we're in. What if the Government had not prepared this law that would allow the restructuring of such a company because such a company cannot produce, and you will allow the tree to have its own market in both Croatia and outside Croatia. Yeah, those are the measures we've taken. What to say about that we have reduced interest, I accept, somewhere some have higher interest because they have problematic balances, which have not yet been implemented restructuring processes, so they have higher interest rates and up to 8% especially if they go into projects, but so through HBOR we are now trying to directly to those who are dealing with agriculture, who are dealing with exports, directly finance them without the banking system. We take further risks directly to HBOR. HBOR plasmas in 6 months 30% higher not only in financial consolidation but in projects, in investments, in production maintenance. What if it wasn't for that? What would happen? But that also allowed 500 million recapitalisations. And next year, recapitalisation and special funds for the recovery and cover of these incentives provided by HBOR. Yeah, we did all that. And yet unemployed, a fall in economic activity, etc. What if it wasn't for that? What would happen? Are we wondering what would happen? Therefore, this government is trying to create the problems created by the crisis, which has produced a very negative interest rate, which has also produced a lack of financial resources all from earlier years since 2008 when the crisis began this government is trying to stop all this. And yes, because when we said investment in the state sector. Why? Because we have estimated that the private sector will be incapacitated this year for more significant investments, incapacitated. But that's why we've taken action and provided funds for its financial consolidation just so there's no new collapse. It's what the government has designed and proposed and implemented. And what's most important isn't just on paper, that's what we're doing. And we also said this year of state investment, and then we slowed down a little because the problem of restructuring is bloody costing. You know, it's not easy to make a decision that makes a wrong investment go bankrupt, it's not easy. You know how many people went to the Employment Service, but that Gredell doesn't produce for anyone, for anyone. Why? Well, because state subsidies were used for wages in Gredel, not for financing locomotives and wagons. Yeah, that should have changed. That really should have changed. And that's what the government does, that's what the government does. And they're starting these state investments, why? Because they are important that this private sector has somewhere to work and that this state spending through these investments enables the private sector to survive again. These are all measures that show how difficult the situation is in the Croatian economy, but also how much the government is willing to deal with all these activities, to consolidate the private sector, also to deal with state investment and restructuring because this is what will allow further economic growth. It's projects and it's programs. We don't sleep, we really do work, and we try to create significantly different assumptions. And all for one reason only, tomorrow, that recovered economy is going into investment and it's starting to work again. You know, I remember 2000 well. 324 thousand unemployed in the takeover of power, and came through the consolidation of the economy, so I was also called a bankruptcy of up to 407,000. Yes, unfortunately, in 2000 and 2001, the consolidation process ran so that the growth rate would grow to 6.5% in order for the number of employees to fall to 300,000, and somewhere it increased 10 thousand before the elections themselves. That's what we're trying to say are active measures, these are battles that are meant to train the real sector and help that real sector really be a motor power, and as you can see in the programme and our predictions where it will be economic investment, we say for 2013, we're already expecting the results of the private sector, we need investment in the private sector, not just state investments, but everything we've invested through this year, which we're going to invest in in the next few months, we expect the private sector to just start returning through the employment of people, through a reduction in the number of unemployed, and in that part we see this and economic growth and larger VAT, a larger VAT. We expect that a really large number of people have to work, because it is then the safety and payment of contributions, it is more security for the pensioners, for the health system, but it is also greater security for every family in Croatia in the future. Indeed, the question remains whether these measures that should have been taken, or if we really don't think anything should have happened, left the VAT at 23%, no measures towards the economy, peacefully passively, nothing changes, because everything will come from itself. This government considers only active measures can deliver results.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22415	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, and respected representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22416	I thank you, Mr. President. This time, I think we'll agree that the Rules of Procedure have been hurt.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22417	I agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22418	By the Chairman, Article 211 So after the speaker's presentation we can get a replica right now, now Mrs. Zgrebec is gone so you're a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22419	Like this, I agree. I failed to apply Article 211 so I apologize to Gordan Jandroković, Ingrid Antičević Marinović, Anti Babić, Ani Lovrin and Jadranki Kosor. They had the right to respond to the basic presentation of Dragica Zgrebec, the respected MPs, I apologize, for looking at Article 230 that the applicant has the right to explain when reporting. I apologize again, and you can continue with the replicas. You don't want to or want to? I don't think replicas are the point of just hearing the one who spoke... It's a speech, it's a citizen, but if you don't want to, it's your business. [[You don't understand.]] I'm sorry. Do you want to replicate? No, I don't. ... Yeah, yeah, we're going with Linic, of course. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I apologize again, and now we have two replicas at the presentation of the Minister of Finance of the Honored Slavic Linic. The first one is Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22420	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, listening to your exposure, it seems to me that in one part you've replicated what I've just replicated to you. I was going to say then in the replica that to solve the problem systematically in the economy is not enough ad hoc measures that are often solved and which you have now stated in your presentation. Namely, the government must set up a system, bring strategies for those activities that it assesses... or important. [[You don't understand.]] Namely, if we hold that tourism is one of our most important economic measures, it cannot happen that a year the government has not implemented the Law on... The land, in order not to allow concessions from any land that would allow investment in this tourist complex, if our strategy is to develop agriculture, then the Government must intervene in those economic operators that are currently in difficulty. [[You don't understand.]] It cannot happen that the Government remains and the Ministry of Agriculture remains on the side, for example, one of the largest agricultural cooperatives in Croatia, for example on the island of Korčula in... For the first time in 70 years, he doesn't receive grapes from his co-operatives because he's in big trouble. [[You don't understand.]] If our aim is to encourage fishing, the government cannot give up the fishing fleet modernisation project and the construction of the fishing port. So for all these branches of any economy, agriculture, tourism, the government must make appropriate solutions, we have heard many times that the economy and situations in Croatia can launch a state property into office, we have passed the Law on State Property, the government has had a year of time to bring in a strategy how and how we will put this state property into office. I was just talking about it in my replica, which you didn't answer right now. So the paliative measures that, they are necessary, but they are not systematic, on them cannot rest the politics of a government and I have said it in my replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22421	Thank you very much. Replica reply, respected Finance Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22422	I cannot agree with my fellow MP that the reduction in health contribution is a palitative measure, I cannot agree that traditionally what needs to be, which will remain a long, long, long time for the development bank to capitalise on the government's economic incentives projects, so that it can monitor the economy, so that it can affect lower interest, could indeed not agree that this is a palitative measure. I couldn't agree with the reprogramming that this is a palatable measure, because, let's face it, for four years, one and the former government are also doing it, so these are constant measures, lower interest battles can't be called a palatable measure, company restructuring is not a palatable measure, it's an action and activity that needs to be implemented, and you say about tourism, the government doesn't have a programme in tourism. This year 10% reduced VAT to accommodation services, from next year 10% to. What? ... Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Excuse me. So before that, from next year, we have what I'd like to say about food and drink. So it's targeted, and in the land, but please, the problem of land is 22 years old. I guess we'll be serious enough, that's a failure of privatisation, the wrong model of privatisation. It's a problem of tourist land, so let's not talk about it, with a thousand problems that we'll be causing with any implementation. Twenty-two years, why haven't you solved them in eight years, sir? What? So let's not talk about it. The cooperative, we want to talk about the conflict of cooperatives over capital, disagreements with the government, and that's where the state was supposed to jump in. It's not a problem, just be nice to come from that neighborhood, solve... among those associates. Get rid of them. You can contribute a lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22423	Thank you very much. The next replica and respected representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22424	Thank you. Well, here, Mr. Minister, we welcomed all those steps that were positive and that we thought could really help. There have been such steps, there is no doubt, but you have in some way continued the trend of a centrifugal policy, so you have not tried to change a little bit or there are measures for now that show at least an attempt for this centrifugal force that actually all of the resources of the state to collapse into one space and possibly there are still two, three smaller whirlpools that as much as it goes into dispersion, actually these economic and social potentials of the state. On that trail so far, I think that, at least I haven't seen a single measure, the necessary measure will be whatever you turn. You can try, you can try, but you're one man and there are several and you're government unless in any way you transfer some of that fiscal and monetary responsibility, if it doesn't disperse this country at all, then that country will continue this centrifugal development that's actually more or less reduced to one city and to several other cities and to the rest of the state that's practically being transformed into a natural base of development of this one centre and several smaller centres. And you will have to see, sooner or later, of course, these are things that don't happen in one day in one budget, but neither this budget in any way goes into the trail of at least any kind of fiscal, monetary, and beyond that some division of any social responsibility at all or economic responsibility or liability towards anyone other than the Government. So we have a government, we have a centre and we have a Croatian state. Sooner or later, at least if we started this process, I think the future would be grateful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22425	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, respected Slavko Linic, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22426	I have already mentioned during the debate that the government programme is also a decentralisation in which decentralisation counts and transfers of functions, I have mentioned in which part, social, education and basic and secondary health care with county hospitals. It is a process that moves and will move full responsibility from the unit of local and regional self-government. When I speak completely, I talk about both salaries and employment and system controls. But we also said that, in parallel with that, we are also talking about decentralisation of funds and transfer of enough funds to maintain this system correctly and on units of local self-government. That this is a process that we are unable to implement next year for reasons of elections, which is a process that will very clearly show which unit of local self-government is one that has no fiscal capacity for such decentralised functions and for the first time we will prepare a law that will distinguish between units of local self-government that have no fiscal capacity and which will deal with simple transactions and those that have full fiscal capacity and which will be able to deal with such allocation of funds. One of the measures to be successful in this is the Real Estate Tax Act. The sources of income of local self-government units must be completely independent, indivisible with the state. They must therefore also be based on real estate, but also on the impact of income tax, and that is where we will make it very clear what the incomes of local self-government are and in that part of the state we will exclude from income tax and profit tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22427	Thank you very much. We're continuing an individual debate with the MPs. Now it's the Honorable Agent Ivan Shuker's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22428	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, Mr. Deputy. So after these good eight hours of debate, I'm really asking myself one question that we just can't get around, and that's whether the goals the government has set for itself, not the finance minister, but the government, are real. Why? So for the simple reason, on the one hand, the Ministry of Finance has defined in a certain way how much it believes it should have income to remain within some kind of budget deficit, and the expenditures are also defined as they are and there are some economic policies that are not exactly in this whole budget story in some kind of cohesion. I'd rather say what our people like to say is that it all looks like a ragged stake sticking into the ground and that's why all these discussions that are coming out of it today. However, what we need to be legalists and talk about what it is, which perhaps puts the most confusion because perhaps many or hundreds of pages of material where the cost arises and how spending has not even been looked at, but this preliminary explanation of the budget in me personally creates a confusion for the simple reason why it reminds me of something we talked about, in fact, 8 months ago when we were making the budget for 2012 and unfortunately it ended up as it is. So again, there is talk of investment in the public sector, without pre-conditions being created. Because look, if it was our condition that it would be a generator of economic growth and better charging of the 2012 budget, then certain public tenders and some procedures had to take place because it took a long time. So it's one big questionnaire on you. Another matter of tax burden. I will discuss this later with clear arguments and attitudes and my personal and my party. However, what I cannot accept while I was a minister and while I was an opposition representative, I now believe that before the budget is passed all the laws affecting both the expenditure and the revenue side of the budget must be passed. Why? Because in these incomes, some laws have a profound impact on him. We got some of them, and we'll discuss them tomorrow and the day after, and some of them aren't even in the hints. The introduction of real estate tax in line with the recommendations, etc., trends in countries, etc. It will provide incentives for economic growth, which will make it a change in tax burden, taxation of work on real estate taxation. Look, this is a crucial issue that will not be settled in the 2013 Budget because at least you're the one that I read from the papers saying the opposite. However, it is a trend to collect most of the money through real estate tax in order to reduce the tax on health contributions. Well, then we can't say that in these difficult moments, we won't put extra burden on Croatian citizens. So that's one big question that you as Minister and Government simply have to give an answer to, otherwise you have to change this in the opening statement, Mr. Minister. This is no flossule of opposition politicians. This is something that came out of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Well, let's go to the revenue side of the budget. So, in addition to these economic activities, the tax increase on this, by that. However, we have been talking for years about abolishing the zero rate because these are EU directives and it simply needs to be done. Whether we had to do it from 1.1. or 1.7. it's a matter of political decision. However, there is something where I am by noon today when I have replicated to the Prime Minister I have expressed my party's political position and I believe that in these difficult moments this would be the most optimistic, rational and best and perfect for Croatian citizens. Because why? We talked about it at times when the VAT rate was 22% and when the standard of Croatian citizens was far higher than today, when it was even talked about. So I think this increase in VAT rates for bread and milk, newspapers and other things going from zero to 5% should be compensated with a reduction in value added tax, to fresh meat, fat and oil, to 10%. This would have somehow been covered, and Croatian citizens, their pocket would have practically kept the whole story neutral. It's thinking of us at the Croatian Democratic Community club. That's what we talked about a few years ago. So it's no political flossula we're talking about right now. This solution to the problem of the revenue side is solely due to additional tax burden on Croatian citizens, because we cannot say it is not. Because if we raise the price of bread, the price of milk by 5%, then we cannot say that it will not burden Croatian citizens. And that's something that we think shouldn't have worked no matter what, that there were other instruments to be found. The excise charge, the HANDA, would have raised, you well know that two, three years ago, we changed the Road Act to get these kunas and 20 into excise duties. The excises have some kind of a thing. However, they have neutral status, have an income and expenditure side. Therefore, that should not be commented. I've already said about the real estate tax, but what leaves a big questionnaire and today no one here has talked about it, and it's excise on electricity and excise duty on gas, no matter how much they were. And the question arises whether we should introduce them at all. Why? Because many EU members do not have that excise charge. In order to satisfy these new members, the directive of some people has a minor fee not a membership fee, a minor cost on electricity and gas. And if this is stated in these materials, and the budget is both the economic and political document number one and the only leverage to run economic policy, then I don't think something like that should just be found here. And the expense side, because I'm slowly running out of time, and I'd like to say something about it. There will be time to talk more about taxes and revenues. The spending party, the biggest tragedy of this spending party, is that it is not combined with the rebalanced budget in 2012. Because if that were the case, then all this story that's being told today in Parliament would have a completely different direction. Why? Because many expenditures planned to be reduced in 2013 were not reduced and therefore the budget rebalance was needed. And I still think I can say, after all, based on some and my own experience, that the expenditure side of the budget, Mr. Minister, there's nothing the Ministry of Finance can do, but I can do the rest of the ministries. Without structural reforms, he cannot resolve permanently. The fact that you and the trade unions are going to negotiate some things comes into place when we join the EU to get our medical staff to run away from us somewhere else, and also to raise the question of what's going to happen. It's a fact that we can't run away from, and it's also a fact that we all talk about and that I talked about when I was a minister. You're talking to me today just as soon as you didn't give me the right, and today you're in a position to secure and you see that's how it is, it's simply something that burdens the budget. However, the public sector wage problem cannot be resolved without structural reforms. Someone must finally say whether something has to be like this or not, and then it has to be said that it costs so much and so much and it's structural reform. It's not structural reform to change a collective contract. And in the Economic Recovery Programme, there are a lot of these things that are pulling into structural reforms and without some maybe should have been a smaller ego to this government, and maybe a lot of those good things from the Economic Recovery Programme should have been removed and translated into the expenditure side of the budget. But what I definitely think is problematic about this budget is the cost of energy. Electricity and gas went up from 20% to 37% of the heat. Your energy expenditures are exactly identical practically with expenditures in 2011 even smaller and there will certainly be problems. The subsidies, starting with the problem in agriculture, we can assume today that these subsidies are like this, but until we have created the assumption that in another way we help Croatian farmers, to direct them to withdraw some other means that are on the disposition, we simply don't have the moral human being that you want the right to cut them off at once. No matter how much I agree with them. Now the question is how many farmers we are, how many of us we are, and above all, local self-government units because I see that you've cut their debt practically to the bone, for the possibility of being in charge next year, how much we've prepared them to withdraw these funds that will come from the EU. So if we are talking about certain reductions in the incentive subsidy, then we must say what we offer for it. Once again, there must be either some kind of reform, or some kind of change, or the possibility of you withdrawing money from somewhere. If we don't, we haven't done anything. Shipbuilding, today so many stories about it, we all know what shipbuilding is in it we have equal sins both. Eight billion shipbuilding recoverys in 2000, unfortunately nothing was done, cost us another 12, 13 billion and that's it. And to finish, my time is slowly running out, and unfortunately this budget will be felt most by Croatian citizens on their backs and that is what is not good, that is, what is unfortunately not to be served to all.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22429	Thank you very much. Now we're going to the replicas. The first replica and respected Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22430	You say a colleague didn't do anything, the government didn't do anything. The government's done a lot for this short time, and you've done a lot of things. You're saying the budget isn't real. They are not supported by anything or by the very investments that are expected. Are you 618 million more kunas that are projected, many projects that this government has talked about a lot, but as you've heard today many times that this government has been welcomed on the table, but nothing has happened. So, where was it? It worked under the table, not on the table. And that's a big problem. For this reason, within 10 months, if I didn't repeat everything that you know much better than even what is said before the courts and the schedule now you would have broken the Croatian foot economy in 10 months that you have thrown into the gap, and you would have been ready for the Olympics in 10 months. You broke out with the Croatian tooth economy, and now you're mocking him that he's scrawny. The government is doing everything it takes at this point and what's possible. If you were all as blessed as you are today you'd be doing us far, far away in a much better situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22431	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22432	Well, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed and fellow Anticevic, you listened to what I was saying, then you wouldn't say what you said. So I didn't say in any segment that the government didn't do anything. Here's the minister and he'll talk about it later. However, your rhetoric is simply the same. But don't, I'm not going down to that level because if I went down to that level then I could say anything, and I just don't want to. So, fellow Anticevic, you said a number of things I just didn't say. All of what you said unfortunately cannot be found in any document that has come about the budget in the Croatian Parliament and therefore your replica is absolutely pointless. It's one of your fiction and fantasy for something I didn't say.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22433	Thank you very much. Both the second replica and the esteemed representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22434	Thank you. Well, here's Mr. Schucker, you've looked back on real estate tax and the thesis about putting into function real estate that aren't in office and actually those basic two thesis that the finance minister mentioned under 1. that this real estate tax would be the original income of the local self-government unit, and secondly, that part of that income would actually cover the debt created by health care. However, where is the problem that the minister may not see so much? The problem is rural, semi-rural or mostly rural environments such as Slavonia, for example. So, in Slavonia, real estate owners aren't Hypo bank, they're not big lying companies. Therefore, there is not some real estate resource that is not functional but are underrated private-owned properties of very low value and these and such properties on the market are not interesting. They can't normally be put into function. So, a lot of those family households and houses around the villages even if they're empty can't be put into operation because there's no market. So there are no people who would buy these properties, there are only their owners who, if they don't want to pay the tax, can bring in a bagger and only bring them down and I don't think that's really an interest in the Republic of Croatia either. So we don't have people, hundreds of thousands of new people coming to buy these properties. Those people are gone. The number of people is decreasing and therefore ours is so worried about that village and those properties that can't be put into service. And secondly, if you want to help local self-government with fiscal decentralisation, then that's where we have the VAT. Why, for example, can't one share of that VAT be divided by 0.5 by counties and municipalities and cities where it comes from? There's a space for real fiscalization.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22435	Thank you very much. And a reply to the line, the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22436	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Col. Djurovic's great awkwardness over the announcement of this law is the more there are many materials that have been working on various institutions that have caused this to cause a great deal of concern in the uncertainty among Croatian citizens. And it's a fact that no one in this country can escape no matter how he interprets it in one way or another. Why? Because in the last few months so many different things have been there and then in the government document this appears here, I'm going to quote, saying "the burden of taxing real estate tax." Therefore, it is clearly sent to Croatian citizens in this document of the government, so no one invented it, perhaps it is not even on the trail of what the minister said would collect an additional few billion kuna taxes on Croatian citizens' real estate, and on account of the reduction of tax redundancies. So no one is against the introduction of order in the Republic of Croatia, no one is in favour if there is, in fact, no one is against it if there is a possibility of discharging the price to do so, only the question is whether those to be made can withstand it. I responsibly claim that Croatian citizens do not have several billion kunas to pay at the moment. This tax is to be discussed in these crisis situations, regardless of what he might have done by introducing such a tax for a little bit more time, unfortunately a terrible bad atmosphere has been created in society, and this is something that no one can say can run away from, no one can speak otherwise, no matter what the last announcement of which the minister once again has given a piece of gum, because if you can judge between 300 and 100 kuna to pay for something, it is a great discriminatory right that can cause things again, but I repeat that I do not think that this sentence by Mr. Minister here should be found, at least not in the draft of this budget, perhaps in the proposal of the next budget that, for the simple reason why it is in contradiction with what you have said in the last few days and as regards the sales tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22437	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Damir Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22438	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Shuker, I find it terrifying to listen to you, frankly. Your concern about the pocket of Croatian citizens, your mention of the coat of arms of Croatian citizens, after 8 years of pushing your pocket, in that pocket of your paws, it's creepy and I can't listen to you all day long how much lunch we're talking, terrible. You had the opportunity to lie things, so what kind of thing you left for the Croatian state and Croatian citizens, and you still dare to mention the pocket of Croatian citizens and that someone will stick their hands in that pocket.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22439	You have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please. And the answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22440	What's first?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22441	Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22442	Look, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament no matter what rhetoric today was, you personally told me that I put my hand in someone's pocket. You can be ashamed of yourself, and you're playing some intellectual. But I'll tell you when and when the SDP food chain comes in, then you won't talk like you say.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22443	Your Honor, you haven't told me what the breach of the Rules of Procedure is, except for what you are. Just to finish you off, be nice and let me finish. May I? So you didn't say what the breach of the Rules of Procedure consisted of, and you considered his exposure to the replica an insult, and you returned it with double insult. What do we do now? Let's say I'm sorry, God, but I won't speak any further. Forgive them, God. And now you have the right to a replica. So there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, there was.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22444	We have a Bible stone to cast the first one who considers it sinless, and you are not in any case, so do not throw stones. Secondly, I'm one of those politicians who's always open-mindedly discussing it here, and therefore, if this is how it's discussed, I'll pay you back in the same way. Please, nice. However, when you have already applied for the replica, then you should know that, not counting the crisis in 2009 in the 8 years of the HDZ government's mandate, not a single tax has been increased, you can say whatever you want, so in 2009, because of the inability to react to the expenditure side of the budget with the same problem that your colleague Linic is struggling with today, we have raised the VAT rate by 1% and we have introduced a crisis tax. It was the only way for state finances to be maintained within a framework and credit could be raised and the state would not go where it is. Mr. Darling, you have no right to speak of theft, at least not you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22445	I ask you nicely, do not throw yourself out of the bench, it is rude, no matter where you are, especially in the Croatian Parliament, the other once again I ask you to refrain from the qualifications of personal, and especially collective, do not do this. Please. Let's move on, don't let the viewers and our MPs live. The next replica is the respected representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22446	Well, fellow Shuker, first of all, I recommend you don't lose your temper. You mentioned the laws as a prerequisite for a budget, you well know that laws only mean something if they're respected, only there. So far experience angered you or not, they told us that in addition to the laws that existed there was also a practice that passed by the law. You're talking about taxes, taxpayers' coat of arms, you're talking about paying all that to taxpayers. Comrade Shuker, I'm here. You're still communicating with the previous replicator. You know what it is, where a Croatian citizen died the most? What did he have to pay for bridges that don't have entrances, exits, what does FIMI have to pay the media, what has to pay for the mountaineering, what has to pay for the affair of trucks, so who pays for it? You? Yeah? I don't know who. All Croatian citizens pay. So why do you need taxes when you've ripped them off like that, don't be angry, I use that expression because of what someone's been stealing, stealing, taking, not returning, taking someone else's name is stealing, and whoever's doing it is called a thief. It's both yours and my business that these thieves get caught, and that's why I'm appealing you a little bit to try and remember you say we share the same guilt about shipbuilding. Oh, my God. I don't think so. I don't know, maybe we lived in some kind of parallel world. I'd just like to warn you about some affairs, which also concern citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22447	Finish your honorary counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22448	So the problem is, you claim you're citizens of taxes burdened, and you've taxed the chosen ones.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22449	Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22450	After these two replicas, I am sure 100% that my debate was on both the political and the professional level something that put you in the depth of your soul, because in no way did you look back on what I was discussing, but you mentioned some things that were such that a personal identification number was introduced, so that you simply revealed various moral sizes in the Republic of Croatia, which like to hold moral lessons and behind it hides a lot of things. But this project isn't your government, it's someone else's. But I repeat these two replicas simply show that this debate was so directly at the center, because you have no arguments, when you have no arguments, then it's one very low, under every level of political human speaking, but I say everyone has their own political style and the citizens will evaluate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22451	Thank you very much. Now again on behalf of the proposing respected Slavko Linic, Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22452	Thank you, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The government's real estate tax, personally I, we announced that we would work on that tax, and after that we didn't give any information about that tax, no data on the work on it, the stakeholders' groups give their estimates, 6 months of scary citizens, did not assist the appeal of the Prime Minister who said the real estate tax would not be more burdensome to the citizen than the communal fee. Yeah. Only those who are richer have more, should be perceived more, these are all messages that we communicated before the public presentation from the government. Everyone else has been communicating and creating problems, creating a crowd for us, the government, the Ministry of Finance, and you can't accuse us, as much as he tells us it's our fault. So imagine the first data we've given shows that the government was right, so again we're saying this is not a new tax for those who use real estate, for the people, for the workers who live in that property, that the real estate is very clear messages, the exemptions are such that the communal fee is not simply less than it will be for the workers who live in that property, and that the mayors can do whatever they want, so someone could have a release of 88, and the other 95, but that the mayors compare their communal fee with the proposed taxes and choose the rate of release so that they don't burden their citizens with communal compensation, that they're classes. This is what simply suggested everyone and surprised them all, because we just wanted to say we recognize that the differences in Croatia are not the same in Zagreb, Nova Zelina or Gorica. That the mayors should choose the release rates so that you don't burden your citizens, and I guess there's some clear information here that there's no greater burden. We even respected the cottage, so we said communal fee is with a smaller one, I apologize for the property tax with a smaller release, and when you add up the utility fee and the house tax, you will see in many, many places it's a larger amount than our tax. Yes, and that's appreciated. Since the problem is now, there's a problem now if we have bigger houses, if we have more houses I apologize, more apartments, but what's most important if we have many building plots, which construction plots are in urban areas, in spatial plans, and the owner has no idea of putting that plot into operation, the owner doesn't want it, he wants to sell, but how much he wants, 500 euros per square, he doesn't care about the project, he doesn't care what the spatial plan said. That this government thinks it's a huge number of real estate, but also a huge number of building particles that can simply be the basis for taxation. And that's why the text you point to Mr. Schucker says that this property can be a significant source of income from local self-government units, because these are rich people, these are people who have property, who can participate with a greater contribution to health contributions, and at that point we could think about the health contribution rate. But as you can see, in this year and next year there is no further reduction, there is no, because we want to see what public debate will tell us in 4 months, how much resistance it will be to try to understand that we have a richer layer of citizens, and that it is more natural for richer citizens to contribute more than workers who get 3,000 salaries, 4 thousand salaries. Yeah, that's the change. We believe that a worker who on average Croatia has more than 5,000 kuna wages can not bear the burden of a health contribution, and we believe that those who have more money should participate. Therefore,... We have four months to talk about this to the poor, but don't let those who are full, who have bought squares and squares, who have fought to get into spatial plans, but have no idea how to bring them to an end. [[You don't understand.]] No, it's basic for them to resell all that. Yeah. Should they be affected, should they be different? It's politics. That's what we're different about. Whether someone will protect the rich or not. And that's why it's only announced this possibility, but you don't have it in rate changes, or in changes in the incomes of local self-government units. As the debate ends, I see it will be very, very interesting. Here's so much about real estate tax, we'll have a chance to talk about it, but this is just like we're talking about communal tax on real estate, and we should cut real estate tax. A clear transparent document, a clear transparent tax, is therefore not a new tax, in this part of the swap, and remains on us to see how much we will agree or disagree on it. 5 percentage VAT, given that this is a European Union directive, Mr Schooker noted that it would be correct that we brought down VAT on oil, fat, etc., meat, then I remind you that when we raised the VAT rate from two index points from 23 to 25 this year we introduced a reduced rate of oil, fat, baby food, water delivery and white sugar, thus already trying to strike citizens with a higher rate of 10%. The only thing we don't have in it, we don't have meat, and that's all we can think about. Everything else we think is basic food, food products, and as you can see, even baby food, we've put in the middle of it. So when I talk about low VAT-rate citizens are 5 and 10%, only those who buy, I would say some products that are also needed for the household are 25%. You also mentioned local self-government to limit their further duties. Tomorrow you will seem to me at the debate of the Budget Law, in this law you will see that 20 percent limit for units of local self-government remains and further, with the exception for withdrawal of funds and for investing in energy efficiency. There are no restrictions on the task of local self-government units. We therefore give them the opportunity to invest, invest, work on programmes, and withdraw as much funding from the European Union funds as possible. Therefore, we resolve and resolve this if the law passes with the Budget Law. And now two words about shipbuilding. In 2002, the coalition government brought about the recovery of 8 million kuna shipbuilding and proposals for what to do with those shipyards. These suggestions were to connect the Queen and the Third May, connect Brodosplit and Trogir, and leave the Oilie. Three large shipyards. With proposals to implement processes and restructuring, and to monitor modernisation from the state budget. I remember at the handover, the late Ivica Racan specifically warned that the problem was shipbuilding and to watch out for it. Why? Because then Minister Jurcic gave a negative assessment to all shipbuilding executives during the first analysis of government decisions, for 8 years nothing has been initiated in this regard, 8 years. The contract with Europe was signed in November or I don't know which month of 2008. Since 2008, three privatisation processes. Yeah. Too many processes, too much time lost, and I'd say the models that remained in this government to solve them, for eight years you haven't spent restructuring by the government of Mr. Racan, but you didn't even give your... [[You can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22453	Thank you very much, Minister. Replications have been reported to your presentation. Let's get this straight. The first one is a replica and a respected Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22454	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Oh, Mr. Minister, please stop talking about that real estate tax. Really almost to say not to say the uglier word to torture us with it. You're talking about something your government hasn't agreed on either. You speak well of the demagogue there for 10 minutes, and I ask you that these demagogues speak both of you and the Prime Minister, because you don't say it like it's some public debate that might be, you're saying it's a done fact at your presentation the Prime Minister says in the current hour we won't be burdening the middle layer, we're not gonna be the ones who built the cottage brick by brick, I just don't know how you're going to get into the legal text that someone was building brick by brick, and someone's suddenly. And so I ask you to finally do everything you say for days to bring the people into some psychotic state and with that house tax, and with those statements from a few months ago, we will fire several thousand people from public service, and then the next day we will not fire but only those who have obtained the terms of retirement will have to leave. Well, when it was seen that you couldn't do it by law either, then you said we wouldn't, but people are afraid for their places, people are scared, people don't need to listen to it every day. Same with this real estate tax. So you don't know what it is. So if we had a text in front of us, if you could at least give it to us as a draft bill that you agreed on in the government, first of all, we could discuss it soberly. I absolutely agree with you that you need to put more tax burden on those who have more and fewer who have less, but if we listen to what you're saying, not just you, but the Director of the Tax Administration, I listened well to the radio the other day, and that communal will not be a burden more than a communal fee, it's not like that, according to what you're saying. It's pears and apples... Communal fees and tax benefits. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22455	Thank you. Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22456	So also to judge something that needs to be valued. That's impossible because the poor will pay for the rich.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22457	Thanks, buddy. Time's up. We have a reply to the replica, Minister Linic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22458	Ma'am, I'm really sorry to bother you if I'm speaking, but you must know I didn't come to the office of Minister of Finance to stay for four years and take my salary home and sleep peacefully. I am trying to turn my knowledge, my abilities and the ability of a vast number of people in the Ministry of Finance into the reforms that are needed in this Croatia. Well, if that bothers you, that's what we're different about. We'll keep working, and you'll be pissed off. It's our job to try to explain all the details to the citizens, and we'll explain them to you, so in every segment, and just to remind you of the day of the presentation, all the legal text of the presentation is on the web portals of the Ministry of Finance, so much about your desire to get acquainted with it. It's all available. Until that day when we had a presentation on nothing, you didn't get any information from us. From the day of the presentation, which seems to me last Thursday you have all the information on the Ministry's website, I'd be happy to talk to all of you. And you were the mayor and I was mayor, I know the municipal system very well, and that's why the law is well prepared, well prepared to really be no more than a communal fee. The mayor's job will be to determine the exemption, the exemption from the total amount of taxes so that there will be no more than a communal fee, and then you will see that anything is possible. Anything's possible. But then it is the original income of cities, then neither the city of Zadar, nor the city of Rijeka will object to the use of funds beyond the law, because simply the municipal fee has its direct direction unlike this tax used by the mayor and by the will of the council or the assembly it brings.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22459	Minister's time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22460	These are all changes that you need to make and bring into the laws. And that's what we're different about.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22461	Thank you. We have the next line, Josip Boric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22462	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, I have already said in my debate that you have already announced in 2010 as a parliamentary representative that you will introduce a property tax, then you have said on the property, that the parafiscal charge is something that needs to be abolished. You've got your turn, you'll probably bring it in. When you talk about fat and you cut the tax to 10%, then why is it more expensive for us at the malls of a liter of oil than last year, why is butter and margarine more expensive than last year for the kuna and the tax is 15% lower? But something else bothers me, because here's a colleague on the left doesn't hesitate to keep accusing this side of stealing something, etc. Can you, as an economist, explain to us whether it is possible to steal $16,000 a year from a single budget? That's 16 billion. Because I recently read that here in the past eight years has stolen an entire one budget, 100,000 million. Is that possible? Is that true, and investment capital is here in this budget maybe 6.7 or 8 billion kuna. How can you steal twice what you have? That doesn't get in my head. Is it then created as some kind of savings in this budget since the budget year is about to end, or is it some kind of hidden surplus and we don't see it. Here's exactly what I'm interested in, because you're going to know how to explain it, because I'm just not an economist, and I can't possibly explain that someone stole 16 billion kuna from the budget. And then there's this methodology, and in six years, it's a 100 billion, and we've all stolen something 100 billion, and people in prison end up in 500 thousand kunas of some kind of wrong study, etc. Well, I mean, these are amazing things that we politicians tell ourselves here. So is it possible to steal 16 million kunas from the budget? I don't understand that. Or a short 16 billion. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22463	Thanks, buddy. Next replica, Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22464	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, today we have heard that from the president of the Croatian government, and here is Mr Linic that we should enter with more optimism in 2013, have more understanding, than all of us, and I believe that today you have received that this debate has been correct throughout the day as far as this side is concerned, as far as the Croatian Democratic Community is concerned. But what I can't get out of my mind is that you forget that you're a government, and the government needs to act, so the word itself says that there should be a rule, and the introduction of new taxes doesn't rule, there's a bad investment climate being created, so I recommend it, and that's what I wanted to do to the Prime Minister today, and you and all the Croatian Government ministers don't talk about any taxes for the next 10 years because of a good investment climate. And if these taxes weren't good, you and your coalition partner, the HNS, realizing that the introduction of the real estate prose will have a bad impact on the investment climate and on the standard of citizens. However it ends with this real estate tax he's done you one big damage and all to give up on him. And in the end, he will cost you dearly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22465	Thank you, too. We have a reply to the replica, Minister Linic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22466	Today, we say several times whether or not we have tax benefits. I must admit that you as a party keep mentioning the increase. So we say no, we have a replacement, and we explain which replacement. And we don't hide from the citizens to say that we carry a burden on them. Because if you remove two index points of health, and you introduce two index points of VAT, and if these are the same amounts in the budget, then it's not a tax increase, then it's a substitute for tax policies, where we say the economy is less, a burden on citizens more. So, we're honest, we're not hiding, and it's hard to accept that it's an increase. And imagine investors are afraid to have less health contributions. It's a little illogical what you're saying. And you also say the real estate tax that we're proposing a threat to investors. So do you know what the biggest problem is with investors? He has an urban plan, he has real estate, and he comes to the citizens and wants to buy these properties, and then the shock, he wants to build a hotel, expects the land price of about 50, 60 euros, because it's the price that can allow him to create a hotel, a hotel complex, and he gets an answer of 500 euros. 500 euros. Now you tell me what we need to bring in an administrative ban, because we have to buy out land to give investors a chance? Yeah. Taxes are also in the role of investors, but we don't want to recognize that. We don't mind a citizen building a complex on his own, building, but does he have the right to not pay any compensation for the health insurance of citizens because he wants to speculate and wait for someone to pay him 500 euros? Maybe never, but it's entered the spatial plan, you're not gonna kick him out of the spatial plan. In the spatial plan, you have limitations. You have limitations. If you have one plan you can't do another while this... Therefore, taxes are also in the function of such incentives. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22467	Thank you. Next replica, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22468	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, one of the key preconditions for anyone who comes anywhere is to invest a tax on stability, because if someone clearly from the government's tax policy doesn't see what's waiting for him in a year, two, three, five or 10, it creates certain uncertainty in him. Any commenting on tax policy through newspapers unfortunately happens what happens, but what is the problem of Croatia, which is the value of real estate and the income capacity of Croatian citizens, unfortunately, in one big discord. Why? Because the gross of these properties was practically up to the 1990s, until '86. You know well that there was no foreign exchange clause, that there were various possibilities of lending from the firm in one way or another, so these properties were created in one way, and the logical thing that the introduction of taxes on such properties should be very sensitive, and no one in principle told you anyway, but simply that there is no time to talk about it in such a way, and the other thing is whether this is a new tax burden for Croatian citizens. If you're saying it changes the communal fee, then it's not, but if you're at the same time talking about substituting 4 percentage points of health contributions, then it's about 5.6 billion that you have to take from someone. And to be clear, no one in the Croatian Democratic Community club is against the fact that the tax is paid according to the property, so according to some capacity fiscally, that everyone pays such a tax. After all, we can't talk about an orderly state if it's not there. However, all these comments have unfortunately led to what they have led to. After all, and within your coalition, there was a misunderstanding. And nobody on our side talked to you about that tax until it started to laminate in the papers, and don't say it's not logical that as another political option we simply point out that we disagree on it for that and that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22469	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22470	Therefore, do not be angry with us, but with someone else who served you. But you'll allow it the same way, if you throw a love goal you should always score.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22471	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Minister Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22472	Comrade Shuker, no anger, four months is enough time to try to find both the community and the differences in this system. Basically, we have to change the system where squares are paid, and no value is paid, and property when we talk about real estate estimates, when we talk about values that have to be taxed, they're both subject and social giving and everything else. So the property is valued at value is a sign and a recognition of our wealth or our poverty, and there is the basis that we want and through such a system to get close to the countries of the European Union and to be clear and transparent, so that any investor that comes has very clear indications about it. And I repeat, Mr. Schucker, the government's public appearance, me personally for the first time with tax data was last Thursday, where you got on web portals and laws and presentations and details about it, with mass, mass remarks. Before that, in addition to the announcement of the tax, we did not lamentate anything, nor when someone wrote that the square one, I apologize for the 50 square meters apartment in Zagreb will pay 18 thousand kuna. We didn't answer with the denials or the debates at the time. Therefore, the government does not laminate on the tax. We first talked about that tax last Thursday, and I'd say the law in a public debate. He's been in front of us for four months, and we're gonna talk a lot about him.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22473	Thank you. Next replica, Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22474	Thank you. Well, Mr. Minister, I really wouldn't agree with someone who previously said that you're demagogue or in that context mentioned you, I mean demagogues say what you don't believe, I think that you always believe what you're saying, and I believe what I think is that I really deeply disagree with what you believe, and I really firmly believe that you're wrong and that a good part of your views, your attitude about real estate is going on as we all build attitudes of ourselves in some way, and you're actually from your own world view corner, or maybe some life experience building your attitude towards real estate, and I think that you're not really able to appreciate the real environment and the society in which you live, the way that Croatian citizens work for decades, and the real state of what and how many Croatian citizens have and in real estate, in relation to the citizens of Italy, the Netherlands, the Federal Republic of Germany, you haven't changed in the same night. And you can try it, but it can't change. And there are no resources that will be able to monetize how you mention these vast properties, nor are there people who will begin to live in them, nor have capital that can turn it into a new value. And the idea of taking it on property and actually transferring it to a health system is also resting on a very strange distribution, and the question is how many of you are going to turn it back into some kind of state and health fund that's going to be spilling over on the needs of some policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22475	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Minister Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22476	And obviously that we can hardly agree on policies, one of the important policies of this government is when we are trying to say to help the economy through the release of the economy. And when you observe or read any studies, you will see that the biggest problem of the Croatian economy is too much contribution. As you know, pension does not cover 50% of the needs of the pension system, so the health contribution in Croatia is far above the average of Europe. We're used to putting all the burdens of the public sector on the payroll in socialism, and I'm used to our problem. This government is trying to make it clear that it's unsustainable to be competitive, to make our product, our ship, our pharmaceutical product, any food, food industries cheaper if it has too much health contributions. It's a very clear message. If we want to relieve the economy, not stay in words, we have to change the tax system, and that's a message, we have to disburse the wages, and we have to try to find compensation for what we're discharging. The proposal of this government is to be an asset that is not in function, an asset that is not in function, that is the government's proposal. Why? We estimate that it's a richer layer of citizens. And where is the difference in our policies. This government believes that the health system cannot be held on by a worker who receives 3, 4, 5 thousand salaries. From that salary he can't live, and we're trying to say let's take the burden off that poor guy, who pays a contribution to health care of me, you, and he's got a low salary. Let's move to whoever has five real estates, five real estates, not one, and that's the difference in our policy. Whether we do it or not, we'll see in the next four months.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22477	Thank you. And the last reported replica, Mladen Marelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22478	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, you mentioned the shipbuilding several times tonight. I don't know if you know the Ministry of the Interior opened a tender on 11.3.2011 for two police boats, they were Eurotender... At this tender tender were presented four shipyards Technomont we know that it is from Croatia,... [[You don't understand.]] The installation of Vela Luka, Rodman Spain, and Baltic Nord Boat Estonia. [[You don't understand.]] Technomont offered 2 million 448 thousand euros,... Vela Luka 2 million 678, Rodman Spain 2 million 792, Baltic Nord Boat Estonia 4 million 280 thousand. [[You don't understand.]] Do you know who got the job? She's got Estonia. The shipyard of Estonia. Shipyard... Vela Luka is still like a membership firm on the island, I think every euro is significant, and we so easily give work to Estonians with a difference of nearly 70% in price. [[You don't understand.]] It was made on 11.3.2011, so we wonder how our shipbuilding is going, here's our government, the former government did it. And what are we going to ask other companies to invest in Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22479	Thank you. Next up for an individual debate, Nadica Jelash. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22480	Dear Vice President, ministers with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. So here we are today discussing almost 10 hours of the 2013 budget, so in the middle of the year that Croatia will join the full membership of the European Union, so with this budget we are entering the European Union. Given this very fact, I will remind you that he completed the summit on the European Union budget for 2014 to 2020, so he did not conclude with the agreement. The largest members of the United Kingdom, Germany, and they also support Sweden, the Netherlands, etc., sought to cut consumption, so bringing the European budget to a level from 2011 because they are doing the same at home with their national budgets. The budget that our Government has come up with and that we are talking about today is based precisely on saving and cutting consumption on the one hand, and the focus of economic recovery on the other. Comments on the proposed budget are different, for example, employers' associations say he is brave, too optimistic, on the other hand unions say he is depressed. Despite the differences in budgets, however, all agree in one, that it should be cut, that what we do not earn can no longer be spent. And it is clear from the data on economic growth that we earn less and less every year, for example in 2012 we earn 10% less than we made in the pre-crisis years 2008. And all these four years of spending has neither been reduced, nor has been harmonised with what the economy can realistically endure, but the previous government has declared to be the height of fiscal responsibility that the 2011 budget has been cemented at the level of what it was in 2010, so it has cemented the same level of consumption even though there was no coverage for it, it has financed it, or it has covered the deficit that we inherited and, fortunately, it has already succeeded in a large part and we have covered it, or cut it. The current government is determined to implement fiscal consolidation, which is our responsibility, our political responsibility to the citizens, we promised in our programme. So you have to end the culture of life on a debt, on a credit card, with borrowed money, so someone else's money. With the government led by the SDP not leading the current interest, it would be retaining power after the latter. The proof is that we also carried out measures and reforms that were short-term and which were both unpopular and painful, and the citizens punished us, we lost power, but the fact remains, the uncompromising fact that we provided these measures in the years followed by economic growth, one of the highest within transition countries and employment growth and the growth of Croatian citizens' standards. And today we are more convinced than ever that these cuts were long-term good, and that today's situation would actually be more favourable if such a policy had been continued. However, the government to which citizens have shown confidence behind us has delayed reforms, bought time exclusively for itself, and today, Croatia is in a situation where in the worst possible circumstances, so in a situation where we have an economic crisis, it must improve both the competitiveness of the economy and reduce the deficit of the state budget, and of course the balance of payments deficit. The current government must provide additional 4.6 billion kuna in terms of economic downturn and for the restructuring of shipbuilding, for membership fees in the European Union, and for the coverage of 2 billion kunas of higher interest on financial commitments than was the case of the previous year. What should be said is that each budget is primarily a political document, so it represents the operationalisation of the political programme of parties in power, it puts first the priorities that the government has set for itself, and the absolute priority of the current coalition government is the economy, the economy and the increase of its competitiveness. By law, we transfer tax burdens from labour to consumption, to make workers cheaper and entrepreneurs more competitive. Unfortunately, the opposition calls it liberalism, for us it's saving the economy, for us it's a struggle and it takes so much economic growth, to keep existing and create new jobs. In order to achieve this priority in the draft budget, we envisioned an economic growth of 1.8% and this growth should generate investment and those of the public and even more private ones. The planned economic growth and the stronger tax discipline for which we created legal assumptions during 2012, hence, from the disbursement of payment of wages without payment of contributions, should contribute to the fiscalisation of the planned revenues amounting to 113 billion kuna. And that is why, among other things, we have foreseen the capital strengthening of HBOR for the new 700 million kuna as one of the key institutions for financial monitoring of the economy, and that is exactly the one most expected of which is the private one. And that is why the budget envisioned a significant increase in precisely those ministries that are expected to make the biggest contribution to economic growth, namely the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts, the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning and the Ministry of Tourism. And in the end, I will return to the evaluations of this draft budget. So no matter how we evaluate it, the majority we've heard today, and not just today, but also the previous days, it's certain and it's quite certain that it's not going to happen, that the rate of economic growth is 1.8% unrealistic. As if the situation is not in itself heavy enough, smart heads and not just those of the parliamentary opposition, it is currently competing to assess it even harder, so the worse it is. It's like the state we're talking about isn't a common state. So the government, through the projected rate of economic growth of 1.8%, inhaled the budget of the necessary optimism, inhaled hope, clearly this in itself is not enough for the budget to be realized, but certainly it will not happen if we continue to talk about it this badly, this negatively, if we are to resume that there is simply nothing we can do about it. The Croatian economy is not in itself depressed, the economy is depressed because they are Croatian citizens. And it is the most difficult task of this government and these authorities to convince citizens that the perspective of this country is not held in their hands by politics or by the government, but by themselves, only citizens can run positive processes with their optimism, and politics is there to create conditions for them. Business banks know there is capital, the HBOR has capital, it needs to be run, it has to be put into function of economic growth. There's something to be taken and risk, not just to pick up a comfortable interest, I guess it's worth the risk for your country. This sounds a little romantic, but it really is in this situation, and it should be. And then foreign investors will come when they will see that first of all we trust ourselves not to drown in that resignation, so for starters let us stop talking about the budget that it will not happen, it is fair to give it a chance, and it is fair that each of us and each of the Croatian citizens individually do everything to make that budget happen, for the sake of all of us.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22481	Thank you, colleague. We have reported four replicas. Ivanka Roksandić answered first. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22482	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Jelash, if I followed well, you said that since 2003, when the former coalition government left and spent a whole series of reforms in that mandate which then left a good growth in the coming years, that it was a good basis, but you forgot to say that this same coalition government in education, in health care and debt, in education about a billion and 200 million kuna, 402 million kuna was returned to the educators for the rights you signed by collectively speaking. So that government signed it, about 40,000 deals were made to cut that debt, so 530 million kunas were saved, a whole series of court costs, people you owed a thousand, two for the Christmases that the government then signed were getting 5, 6 grand with court costs and interest, and that's true, you kind of keep saying that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22483	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. My colleague Jelash, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22484	Well, colleague Roksandic, this is the fact that we have left behind a good situation, and you have been fortunate to have capitalized on this situation, so unfortunately the citizens have understood, but here is the fact that each next government capitalizes until about half of its mandate what the previous government left. Only in the second half is the actual government beginning to harvest the fruits of its work.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22485	Thank you. Next replica, Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22486	Well, my colleague Jelesh, I don't know why you on that side always have the need for a terrible labeling for everyone. If you're already talking about embezzlement, I'd like to refer you to the phonograms your MPs used to say everything when the budget was being passed and when they were in opposition. This is the pale shadow and young water that's happening here. So you're saying that the budget is a political document I agree which sets priorities, your colleague, who we failed to replicate, said that this increased number of unemployment is the number of 345 thousand actually the result of the consolidation of the economy, so this is the recipe that consolidates the economy, but then it's more surprising that you Social Democrats in the budget are reducing the item exactly at the position of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, as if it is right that this number, the increased number of unemployed from day to day, will actually require more and more social giving of those poorest and most vulnerable, and in particular, I don't need to expect that these reduced resources in social policy and social positions, how strangely distributed. So, look, the position of volunteering in the Republic of Croatia is increasing the development of volunteering by almost double, and some phantom item of other expenditure puts a million kuna on it, so social associations are also given twice as much as last year. But look at the wonders decrease the position of child support, the position of maternity benefits is reduced, the position of newborns is reduced, the position of implementation of the national strategy is reduced, and the improvement of professional work in the social sector is reduced, but you are double increasing the position to develop volunteering. Well, I agree, and we should be working on the development of volunteering.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22487	Thank you. Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22488	But I guess that's not what a million kunas should be invested in, but it needs to be saved through volunteers by some budget funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22489	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Jelish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22490	You see you funded a series of social benefits deficited, without cover. So far, we have not reduced the resources for active employment policy measures, nor for maternity benefits, nor for children's allowances, nor for maternity benefits, nor for defenders, so that is, our policy. And what you're going to have to do is order, order in a series of these social benefits.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22491	Thank you. Next replica, Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22492	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Jelash, I have to admit I'm not an economist, I'm a layman in it, but you say maybe it's enough for you to say that the budget is great, not to go into it, that budget is good, great, etc., because when you say savings then we have the numbers, and then we say here we've been saving this year, so we fell from 122 billion to 117 in consumption, and now next year we're saving so we have 122 billion again, you understand? How do we save and spend more? When I have 10 thousand kunas at home, when I'm saving up, I'm not going to spend 15, but I'm going to spend 9, 8 and 7, and so on, and we say we're saving and we're spending 5 and a half million more. You understand? Then you say we won't be in debt anymore, and the debt of the public central debt of the public goes up one 20 billion kuna a year, you know, and then to people it seems unworthy, so it's enough to say that on your part the budget is great, that it's great, the best as it is, and enough, without this savings, etc., because this is not a savings, I said today we spend more and we're going to collect more than Croatian citizens and that's the only fact, and that shows these figures, we're going to collect from the citizens 113 billion, and we're going to spend 122 billion. This year we picked 108 and spent 117. There's no saving. And credibility isn't if we say no to you in agriculture, and there's someone who advises in the unknowing monetization of highways, we heard 50 or 60 million kuna for advice today. These are things that just don't look good on the outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22493	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Jelish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22494	It is precisely the reason for the coverage of these expenditures that envisions an economic growth rate of 1.8%, which should provide for additional revenues, but these additional revenues, if we believe that this is precisely the kind of economic growth, will not be sufficient to cover all expenditures. The biggest problem is interest, so financial expenditure. We simply don't make enough money with this kind of economic growth to cover neither interest, let alone the principal of our duties. So that's why on the spending side you need to cut, you need to save.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22495	Thank you. And the last replica Drazen Djurovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22496	Thank you. Here you are talking about the indignation of those, not only in the assembly, but also outside of the council that are enjoying themselves, I will now paraphrasise the economic failures of this government. And in doing so, you have apostrophe of these growth announcements of 1.8% in the 2013 projection, I think everything has to rest on something, including an assessment of economic growth. And they're not economic analysts, but they're real because there's really not one single indicator that would say that we can achieve economic growth in 2013, but none, but they're all talking about trying to create depression in 2013 and what's more, and what's more worth spreading false optimism, or citizens facing reality? And in the end, we experienced this now in 2012 when a growth of 0.8% was announced, we welcomed a decline of about 2.2 and a half percent. And what is now, a 1.8% growth is announced in 2013 and there is no chance, and no single indicator indicates it. And what happens at the end of 2013 when we get zero, or minus 0.5, or a 1% drop? It's not about optimism and pessimism, it's about some credibility. So it loses credibility in front of the citizens. Because lying to people, spreading false optimism is really called demagogy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22497	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Jelish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22498	This situation in which this government really works is specific, so the crisis is with us, the crisis is in Europe, the crisis is in the world, and I appeal, so I appeal to everyone that this budget and this economic growth is not meant to be 1.8% spoken of as false optimism, but what we believe will be achieved for the benefit of all. So right now, there are 200 billion kuna in Croatian banks, if we're going to talk about spreading false optimism, we're not going to convince the citizens, and we expect them to, therefore, from investment in private investment, this economic growth, so if we talk like this, we're not going to do it, we're not going to do it to believe this government, and that this government is able to get the country out of this situation, or at least try to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22499	We're continuing the debate. Next is Jasen Mesic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22500	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here's almost nine and a half hours of debate on the draft budget for 2013, I'm not going to talk about the general facilities that had colleagues more involved in the economy, I'm going to talk about that part of the budget that I know of Mr. Minister, which you are particularly sensitive about, which is the budget for science and the budget for culture. I know that here today you represent the Governments and that in some ways you cannot speak only of the economy and only of the Ministry of Finance's portfolio, but also of the rest of the ministers, ministers and other ministries. If we agree together with you that it is necessary to invest, if we agree that it is necessary to fight for competitiveness, for a year, two, three, as you said yourself, if we also agree that we must in some way make such products that will be available on the market, then let you say that in the sector of the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Science. This budget at the Ministry of Culture has been made in this sense entirely wrong, because all those items have been downloaded that in any way help any cultural industry or investment. The funds for the restoration of immovable cultural heritage, from which small businesses, craftsmen, etc. are directly financed, have been removed. The team, which deals with the team, has been stripped of funds for investments in culture, so there will be later-to-be libraries that will not then be able to buy out the library fund, thus reducing the same incentive for publishing, incentives for library activity. So all I'm talking about is cultural management. You only raise funds to rebuild the fleet. Nothing, not at all. Project Vukovar, Vukedol, Ilock that goes through... The Council of Europe completely stopped, it was supposed to be over a year ago, completely slowed down all reconstruction projects, I speak only from 2011. [[You don't understand.]] In what way do you really think that in the Republic of Croatia one day we could have what in the normal countries of the European Union to contribute to the EU's GDP by 3.7%. Mr. Minister, it's more than shipbuilding. There are 5% of cultural workers in EU countries. How do you achieve this employment, how does culture contribute to what you want to increase by 1.8%? Not like this, not with this proposal, but to just invest in those cultural items that we call cultural industries because they make profits. Finally this year we have in the budget to raise foreign films in the Republic of Croatia which last year was not even in the budget, it was forgotten to put. But the Ministry of Culture must not be the only one to be charged with repaying those funds that foreign filmmakers in Croatia will spend. And they don't come to Croatia just because it's a good climate, they come also because of cultural heritage where we reduce the constant funds this year and in the coming year those funds that go directly to craftsmen. So who's coming to shoot "The Game of Thrones" in Dubrovnik? What do you think they're coming for? The blue sky? Among other things, and for that, but they come because of the towers that are here we inherit in some way. Investments in Podunavlje stand, they are reduced. You know it's... The loan was supposed to be completed this year in the summer, that it wasn't. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For what? Maybe because of the wrong projects that were made, maybe because of the incompetence of the colleagues who ran it, maybe because they blew up the costs of the linings that were supposed to be 5 and 8 million kunas, and now they're twice as big. Look at that, Mr. Minister. Programmes are being reduced to the Croatian Restaurant Institute and for the first time in history we have 4 deputy directors employed. Why and how? Why do we have four deputies in an institution who's been double down since 2011. And how are we gonna get out of this crisis like that? We won't. I'd like these ambitious programs you've said since growth to come true and we all want it to be more than 1.8%, but it certainly won't be this way. And as much as it's all funny, it tells you that, say, the Ministry of Culture now has to pay membership fees for UNESCO. It's like there's no science, no bioethics, no communication activities in UNESCO, that's all that's been done at the Foreign Ministry before. So where did this come from in the ministry of culture to introduce brand-new items, non-profit media? How did they ever come into the existence of the Ministry of Culture? And how funny it is to have in the text explanation where it says that the Ministry of Culture says to monitor, record, document and promote cultural and natural heritage. Let them know, Mr. Minister, that natural heritage has gone to a completely different ministry so they don't fly. As far as education and science are concerned, you well know that investment in science and scientific research can ultimately lead to better products and better inventions, better technological preparation and ultimately to be competitive and certain new products. The total mass for scientific research in the budget of these years is 80 million kuna. Do you know how much it's supposed to be in the economy just for a tender for a contest to get someone ready to monetize the highways? 90 million kuna. Which means that the fee for writing a single tender is worth more than the entire scientific research in the Republic of Croatia. That's not how we catch the growth. I'm speaking to Mr. Minister in those segments that sometimes aren't even paying attention, so maybe neither of you as Minister of Finance. Or perhaps your other colleagues in the government, but I can contribute to what you say and what you declare as politics. And growth and economic policy, I can contribute. But then I don't understand why they are cut, why not implement the Strategy for Economic Use of Cultural Heritage, but rather the reform puts an item of 1 million kuna for documentation for EU projects. Oh, please, Minister! Well, you know very well that for a million kunas, you can't prepare a single project. For the EU, it is not available in the budget for the restoration of heritage. There are two projects inherited from the period last government – Jusuf Maškovića han and Ilock-Vukovar-Vučedol. Furthermore, if you look for scientific excellence is completely abolished item, and we've been propaganda that we're going to propagate excellence. Printing is shrinking, publishing incentives are shrinking, and we keep saying that this sector, the sector, is on our knees. How is it that when someone looks at these items, why do we even use the term cultural management or culture management? So today we have cultural institutions that are a cornerstone of development in some, look at the Krapina Ancient Museum. There are more visitors than any other place in the county. See how much income is only the Pula arena or the Dubrovnik Walls or the Stone Walls because they have been invested. And of course it brings back company. What concerns me, I know that it will be difficult for Croatian citizens and I know that the crisis, however, of these errors in the budget, mistakes or false assessments or ignorance or poor cultural or scientific policies will have a society which is far more difficult than... The citizens agree with everything they can endure, but in this way the line of what results in 3.7% of GDP is lost 5% of the employees in Europe. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22501	Thank you. Next up for debate Ivo Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22502	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. We've been discussing this all day, and we haven't gotten to a third of those who are still thinking about discussing what's no wonder because we're discussing the most important document discussed in this House in one year, and that's the budget. We are formally discussing the 2013 Budget, and in fact in the good part, we are not discussing the 2013 Budget, although it is not formal, they are still not aware that this economic situation with the result of policies for a number of years of the HDZ Government, and that is why it is necessary to say yes, because everyone is now a little surprised why Croatia is in crisis? Why there's no way out like that, and it's asking for the responsibility of this government as if this government is guilty because we're in a crisis. It will take, we all know that for at least two to three years to get involved with the situation we've encountered and to slowly push from the bottom and move forward. So what are we doing in this new budget to change the situation? Through a series of laws, a series of solutions allow and create assumptions for new development. It was mentioned here, so we cut in last year, and the next one we don't touch, we leave health contributions less by two billion. Two billion kunas remain available in the economy for new development, for investment, for employment, etc. On the other hand, by financial discipline we managed to achieve almost identical incomes as well as previous years, based on the contribution of health contributions because we made those who had not paid so far, to finally start paying without being like so far being hit by a horse that is good at pulling. Those who pay, press them, those who don't pay let... Then it is also seen in this budget that, on the basis of VAT, something will, when it comes to one important economic branch, which is tourism, will be lacking. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of course, because we have reduced deliberately VAT from 25 percent to 10 percent to make our tourism more competitive, to make it more competitive in countries in the environment if they have such or similar VAT to have ours, not to be more expensive on that basis. Then fight with their quality and knowledge and service to be competitive. And it will come back, not immediately, but it will come back for a reasonable period, some few years, because what we're doing, we're doing in the interest of the state, not in the interest of our current position when we're in power. So when we did something, when we increased VAT, some of them said, you increased VAT. So, we increase VAT, we increase it because of this, that means it's going to stay in the economy in some way. We didn't take anything from the economy, we increased the VAT, we left it, we picked up two billion, but we left two billion for example health contributions. Thus, the budget register remained the same, with two billion left in the economy. I wouldn't go further through that, and I don't have time anymore, and especially I wouldn't characterise the budget as it's usually said in passwords, he likes to say that he's both developed and social, etc. I would simply say that this budget is responsible for the state, responsible for the citizens, and that is why it is necessary to observe it. So this is a budget that Croatia does not collapse further, does not push into debt slavery which has been done so far permanently for years. We leave breath and space to the economy so that they can breathe, that they can move into new development, to start new investments, to start new employment. We are changing the direction of the economic policy of the Republic of Croatia And I expect with the right to do so the economy will. [[/Intruder Batinić: Time colleagues. It's time, pal.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22503	Thank you. We have three replicas. The first is Comparić Devčić Ana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22504	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So, colleague Jelusic, you said in your speech that we could make four Peljeska Bridges for ten billion kunas as much as we planned. Because the Peles Bridge costs two whole six billion kunas. You said we could raise our pensions. I just want to add that for the amount of 10 billion kuna plus what you have stated, we could also build the first phase of a clinical hospital centre in Rijeka of a billion kuna and also as much as the mentioned highway of Rijeka-Yellow Lake which would also cost two entire eight billion kunas. So for ten billion kunas that we will pay interest we in the Republic of Croatia could build a lot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22505	Next replica, Domagoj Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22506	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleague Jelusic gets the impression that here you are from your discussion as in 2012 as if HDZ were in power. If I wasn't sitting in the assembly at this hour at eight o'clock in the evening, I'd really think HDZ was still in power. And since you're crying, there's no use for the finance minister, from what's been missed, which was, but I guess he expects especially from his own majority, some over-proposal if not on the subject of the budget then how to achieve economic growth. Don't make me repeat now, what numbers were in 2011. Even now, sparrows know about trees, employment figures, or unemployment, economic growth, the tourist season that is this year, may it be, next year, even better. What were the results in 2011? What happened after that in 2012 is what we warned you about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22507	Thank you. And the last replica, Ante Babic. Here you go. Excuse me. Excuse me. The answer of my colleague Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22508	Thank you. My fellow Milosevic, I am not crying over what it was, but I am simply expressing the fact that we all know and you know it, you know it and you do not want to admit what condition it was left in. I said, just seven, eight months if we ignore the first two, three months when the government established the SDP and its coalition partner in power. There's nothing you can do for that period. To make a change in the direction of economic policy, it takes two years. The public expects it now. And one more thing, public, I repeat, you didn't listen to me. The public isn't convinced why we're in the crisis we're in. We have to do it again. We're in crisis because, not because we haven't done anything in seven months. We've done a lot, but until then it's forbidden too much that it really takes us two years to make it right.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22509	Thank you. And Ante Babic's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22510	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Col. Jelusic, you said the ministry is trying to make as much money as possible, so I'll remind you that this summer, the Ministry of Finance has announced a cash register of taxpayers from cca unpaid liabilities of 50 and 50 billion kuna. It's really supposed to fit into the state's register. To this day, only a hundred and forty - seven million kunas have come together. If I'm not mistaken, may Mr. Secretary correct me. From the register of taxpayers published 31. On the 10th of this year, legal persons were told to be reduced by four, four billion kunas. There's no such thing in the revenue of this budget. We don't see it. Does that mean that these debts were written off, because it's not really a point to write off, but to collect the debts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22511	Thank you, too. We have an answer. Comrade Jelusic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22512	A large part of these debts you're talking about have been reprogrammed, but the tax discipline we started has yielded results. So I was saying a little while ago, the tax rate for health contributions was reduced by 2% and 2 billion was supposed to be less combined, but 2 billion kunas did not add up to the same rate as so far because there was an increase in payment and made those who have not so far paid. Furthermore, 1 billion kunas are also the result of better tax disciplines... which are spoken of, so those who did not pay to finally pay and those measures have a double function. One thing is that they have a fiscal function to bring money into the budget, which is one thing, which is not irrelevant, so when we take this and one and the other measure, it's 3 billion, it's not small, it's almost 3% of the budget and the other thing, it introduces justice. So far there has been no justice, some have had to pay taxes and contributions, some have been seen through the fingers that were loved by these or those, mostly by the authorities so far. Now we're introducing righteousness. There's no way by... by uncles, taxes and contributions they have to pay everything. So far, during your reign, unfortunately, it wasn't like that. We all bear the consequences.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22513	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, Branko Vuksic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22514	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates. Although the budget or budget in the legal sense is a legal act which determines the revenues and expenditures for the functioning of the state during one fiscal year, the budget is certainly the most significant political act of the government and of the parties in power. By budgeting it, the government determines its character, its worldview, its relationship with the state and with the citizens for which of course the state exists. Although it is about dry figures, about mathematics, about addition, but increasingly about subtracting and dividing budgeting contains the ideology of those who draw up the budget. The government's budget reveals its character more than political programs. Budgeting exposes pre-election pranks and false promises, budgeting reveals who's left and who's right, who's really up to development, and who by ignorance or a hidden intent of development prevents it. The budget indicates whether it's a government that knows what can enable the state to develop or whether it's a government that's ziherastically and uncreatively accessing a rag hole like the previous ones. The coordination of public expenditure and public revenue is without question the most important objective of budgetary policy in the fiscal or budgetary year. But the distribution function, or distribution of income and wealth, in order to make fairer distributions suggest the art and character of government. It is this distribution that reveals who is left as I said, and who is right, who primarily cares about the well-being of most citizens, who have in mind the extra profit of banks, telecommunications companies with one concept, large capital, more specifically large capitalists. The budgetary policy also has a stabilising function, achieving price stability, high employment rates and stable growth rates. It is not difficult to conclude that in the first year of government, the Kukuriku coalition at work has missed budget policy because neither the prices are stable nor the high employment rate has been achieved, even as many unemployment records have been broken, and there are no stable growth rates. But the members of the ruling coalition will say the crisis is, it is not Croatia's lonely island and much stronger countries are breaking under the burden of crisis, let alone one small Croatia. Right, and what's left behind, what you inherited is real chaos. But in this global world, many countries have come out of crisis, products and employment, Croatia is becoming less and less fired, and it is not producing because it does not know what it can and should produce, which it can sell to anyone. The thorn in the eye of the previous one, proved this judgment smarter than Jesus Sanader, the kleptomaniac authorities, but these current authorities are also workers' rights. They tried to brainwash the Croatian public from day to day, causing most evil. Because of expensive workers in Croatia, no one will invest, and that is not true. In Croatia, no one will invest primarily because of the disastrously slow, inefficient and corrupt bureaucracy and the insecure tax environment. Not because of high taxes, but because taxes change like underwear. Nothing this government has done in a year without bureaucracy getting in the way, even every thought of any entrepreneurial enterprise. Of all the reforms that are a prerequisite for any investment, the party is also a reform of the state administration and of the Croatian judiciary, which, when it comes to business, and there are competent commercial courts, operates on the principle of supply and demand, not justice and justice. That's what the former judges and everyday practice testify about. And what's the 2013 budget? Optimistic, which is of course good, but the question arises on what the Government of Zoran Milanovic is based on optimism expressed by words and figures, GDP growth of 1.8% on public and private investment. Do they knock on our door, are they reality or just desires? Unfortunately, wishes, like my wish to get a super 7 at the lottery. Although Minister Linic's revenue side in the budget increases by nearly 5 billion kuna based on an economic growth assessment of 1.8%, the European Commission predicts stagnation which is not so bad, and the IMF is almost Linic's optimistic and predicts a growth of 0.8%. How Minister Linic will raise 113.6 billion kunas unless the projected 1.8% GDP growth is realised. Should we discuss this here in Parliament what the script will be afterwards? Will it drag the state's hand deeper into citizens' pockets and introduce without doubt a few more taxes. With this, the standard of citizens would crash from this year's -5% to -10%. If the government really points to the left, is it really social, is it really on the mind of long-term development being seen in one shown and one unshown budget item? Education and science receive less money than in the dry year 2012. There is no development without investment in education and science. So this budget isn't developmental. And that the government rips to the right proves an item that's missing or my little one hasn't noticed. How much will Minister Linic collect money from the charge on bank assets, how many tens or hundreds of millions will tax banks in 2013, how much the grey economies will be legalised depends on the art of state institutions, which apparently do not do their job well even though they are too numerous and bulky. Contributions to and from wages are 30% of the budget and if only part of the work on black could be transferred to white legalised work, and thus the unfair competition of the state could and should collect new 3 to 4 billion kunas. Income of 3.3 billion kuna will increase on taxes and excise duties. In part, these 3.3 billion are the result of changes in the tax system. From 1 January in Croatia, a zero VAT rate on bread, milk, books, professional magazines and cinema tickets is abolished, and a 5% rate is introduced on the mentioned products and services. Why? Because in 1.7.2013, we are most likely entering the European Union, which the former and current government claim is seeking to abolish the zero rate, and the lowest rate of 5%. But why not introduce the increased tax from 1.7? Citizens are being punished again, while leaving extra profits to banks. However, the European Union knows a zero rate and below 5%. Almost all the food in the UK, including animal food, has been released from VAT. It's similar in Ireland where VAT was released from books. The lower VAT rate also has France 2.1%, with those countries not being the exception. Why did our negotiators not fight for the non-taxation of bread, books, medicines, foreign magazines, and movie tickets? Whose interests they were protecting, whose interest is protected by this budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22515	Thank you next for the debate Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22516	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President and Mr. Secretary with deputies, colleagues and colleagues. Of course the budget, every budget is actually the policy direction, and so is our exposure, and the possibility of a real state. It is evident from this budget that it is both about savings and responsibility. Therefore, it is certainly a message that change must occur with this Budget, and that change must occur with every citizen. Today we heard it was an attempt at salvation. Here I can't mention interest as the biggest budget problem, the interest that came on the charge now, and they're in charge of the previous government, and that's one big rock that's pulling us to the bottom, that's one big burden that needs to be held on the surface. Thus, in 2013 when we look at the financial expenditures of the state budget it includes interest rates, i.e. they are planned at an altitude of about 10 billion kuna if we look at compared to 2012 it is an increase of 2 billion kuna. I'll also mention here I'll actually remember, in 2003 when the interest cost was about 3 and a half billion kuna. However, I must stress here that there were investments at the time, as the rate of growth in investments was the largest of the draft countries from 2000 to 2003. That's what the government of Ivica Racana left to the previous government, but today we do, there's actually been a cost of 10 billion kuna interest, but investments are falling, in freefall. There were also a lot of mentions of investment today, and it was expected that these investments would be launched, that everything was prepared and left to our government to launch investments. However, today we have actually seen that they are just being created, conditions should be created whether they are working and, of course, making legal provisions in order to actually create conditions for investment to be created, that is, investment to be made so that we can strengthen, strengthen the economy. Of course, these investments are primarily for strengthening GDP and job creation. Because according to some data, one job needs to be spent on about 700,000 kunas. If you take that cost of interest you can actually open over 13 and a half thousand, actually over 13 and a half thousand jobs. This government has been welcomed and a devastated pension system. The pensioners were led to the edge of material existence. So the pension system hole was somewhere around 16 billion kuna. From the contribution there were 19 billion kunas, and pensions were 35 billion kunas. The average age of pensioners in Croatia is also unfavourable. It is about 51 years of life, and it is in some ten years less than in European countries. This is the result of poor pension reform. If you get the total amount that's on interest, actually that we have to... on interest spent on an increase in pensions the average pension would amount to over 3000 kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This budget says that discipline and order are needed, that it is also necessary to manage quality and rationally with budgets that are reduced somewhere, somewhere slightly increased. However, it is also evident that the last line of defense are young, disabled and older. Namely, all social rights and services of all groups have been reserved. Protection, we can say about this social system, that it's child and youth protection, that it's actually a standard examination, an increase in service quality. As far as reform of the system itself is concerned, it is a deinstitutionalisation, then it is a strengthening of civil society associations. In fact, a lot of services in providing social assistance overlapped. These were different basics for different services, which is why it is very important to provide information that unique data, i.e. databases, are in one place and that we have a review of all givings there. So, in the area of social policy in the social care system despite some reductions in certain items, it is evident that citizens are guaranteed fundamental security in terms of building a sufficiently solid social protection network. I mentioned the app, so it's very important to informically connect all social care institutions and create one unique register and database. In this way, the resources will actually be properly and justly deployed. There's something else about health care. In Croatia, healthcare is spent somewhere 18% of the state budget, and healthcare is financed with 85% of public money. The cost is constantly rising in health care and about 8%, however, it is also conditioned by ageing populations and new modern technologies. At the same time, there is, of course, a fall or a small drop in GDP. Hence, he does not follow the rise in health care costs. Of course, the result is an increasing imbalance in GDP growth and health costs and, of course, it generates growing debt in health care. And there's actually thinking about rationalising so that now there's a Law on the Restitution of Public Institutions to Solve Debts in Health. When we look at hospitals, or health care systems, it is very often evident that wage and material costs are very unfavourable. There are even, it takes 83% to 17%, which is actually a very bad condition. When we look at hospitals, let's say a large hospital that has 3200 employees has 860 employees who are auxiliary professions, in terms of administrative and technical services. In hospitals there is also a poor management system, inadequate information still, etc. As regards the recently adopted Health Strategy, we have set priorities which are priorities and based on these priorities is a given strategy. In the strategy, of course, the important point is at home of health where the principle of comprehensive access to primary health care can be achieved. And as for hospitals as the largest actual number of employees, institutions with the highest number of employees, that is, the most segregation there must be a reorganization of the structure, then a master plan, and a mention of the Restitution Act. I can therefore conclude that this budget is both social and, of course, the budget that gives us the message that we have to save, that we can no longer act the way we've all acted but we must understand it from every citizen of course to the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22517	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Ivan Klarin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22518	Well, pal Bonačić, you said the last line of defense was social. I'd like to point out something else here that we haven't talked about in the whole debate, which is tourism. I think the tourism ministry's budget, and we come from one and the other from the tourist area, so the total increase since last year is 37.45%, and let's not forget that since 1 January 2013, the tourism rate has been reduced from 25% to 10%. So no government in the environment during the global economic crisis has so drastically reduced the VAT rate in tourism. As far as tourism is concerned, I'd still supplement you here, actually I'd completely complement you, if you were to mention quality development and the Dalmatian Burn. So for the first time, the Ministry of Tourism in its programme introduces the development of Croatia's Adriatic under the programme "Adriatic Provance". I think these are the last lines of defense, that we live from it, in fact, entrepreneurs from yours and from my neighborhood 90% of people therefore live directly or indirectly from tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22519	Thank you. We have an answer. My colleague Bonačić, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22520	Thank you very much. My colleague Ivana and I have said that in fact, as far as investment is concerned, it is important to think strongly about the substitution of imports, that is, when you mentioned tourism, and I would say energy. And this government is certainly working on its legal proposals, actually creating conditions. When we look at value added tax, the reduction of VAT on catering services is from 25% to 10%, it is actually just strengthening this tourist offer, and of course strengthening rural tourism and all those programmes that are for rural tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22521	Thank you. And the next replica of Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22522	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam MPs, you're probably confused in the heat of exposure, saying that 18% stands out for health care. If 18% of our health care system were to be singled out, our health care would be booming and there would be money and beyond. Unfortunately, it's not even close from a far away percentage. Even the countries most singled out are somewhere at 9%. Croatia is therefore very, very far from 18%. I wish it was 18%, but unfortunately it's not the right information.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22523	Thank you. We have an answer. Here's your esteemed co-worker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22524	... It was a lapus. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I said it's 8% separation, and 85% of public money goes into funding. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22525	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate. Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22526	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable Ministers with the Deputys. So here's at the beginning of this day when we started the debate on the state budget and you as Minister and Prime Minister said that this budget is a battle for investment, job preservation and job creation. I agree. And my colleague Mesic was talking about a subject that no one talked about today in this assembly, which is about the area of culture and science, and he showed us how we can also respond to this request from you in these positions. Unfortunately, the proposal for a state budget relating to science and education shows that why the government campaigned a year ago in a pre-election campaign, it had promised citizens almost nothing. I can't help but remember the adoption of the 2011 budget and I'll mention my colleague Fleg, although he's not here who rightly said that he was the share of the Ministry of Science and Education and Sports in the state. budget from 10.4% dropped to 9.8%. What do we have now? I won't repeat the words of my colleagues because they're not my words, but I would totally agree with them for what they said a year ago. In 2012, your colleagues and colleagues gave up everything you stood for in 2011, 2010, in 2009, I will only talk about those years when the crisis occurred. We warned you at the beginning of the 2012 budget that you had peeled the budget for education and that you would not have enough money in the end, which the other day was rebalancing and confirmed. You admitted that you were missing 436 million kunas, that you wouldn't have to pay, that you had to give up capital investments, you cut all the funding for all the programs. And what do we have for 2013 today? 230 million less for education. But I'm telling you it's not 230 million, because today we've raised our hand for budget rebalance and we're going to end this year in education with 11 billion 526 million and something small with 12 billion 64 million, and that means we already have 767 million less than our plan is about. And I wonder now in the end why there's no money for education and science at all? Is that the wrong plan? Are we going to say, at the end of the year, nominally, we cut expenses, we have a smaller deficit, but we have less money for education? I'm sorry we're missing $432 million for wages, which if we add these missing ones to this rebalancing, another 400 million, that's almost 800 million. Will you already have announced the Ministers' wage cuts by 10% I think it is, no matter what you did with your partners, that you haven't changed your collective agreements, that you haven't reached a deal at all. And here's what happens except with the salaries in the education budget. Prevention of addiction and violence with these programmes last year, when we discussed the budget, you are now reducing them by 15%. Incentive to the education of national minorities, colleagues today said they were satisfied with the Committee on National Minorities, and you decreased by 800,000. Special programs for education 600,000 less. Encouragement of extracurricular activities, which is a very important item in education, has been reduced from 4 to 2 million kunas, so 50%. Encouraging extracurricular activities in secondary schools and higher education from 3.5 million kuna per million 600 means 50% again. Professional training and education of teachers in schools for a million kuna. Strengthening the capacity in the system of education and rebalancing the complete item, and now an item for which I can't interpret what's with the 6 million you've planned you've left a million kuna. For preschool education, the other day we discussed the introduction of a compulsory preschool for everyone, you cut the budget for an entire one million kuna, and imagine you increase the preschool item by 88 thousand. Do you think the local community will be able to take over, local communities cities and municipalities, that they will be able to assume preschool obligations because you have only 88 thousand kunas more than last year, but you are introducing mandatory preschool education for everyone. In elementary schools, you cut the budget by about a hundred and fifty million kuna. Not only is he crying, you've cut the budget for basic school reform. Imagine at the point of reforming basic education, eighty-seven thousand kunas, eighty-seven thousand kunas and nothing more. Maybe it's funny for you colleagues and colleagues. To me who's thirty-six years old in the education system isn't. I find that very tragic. By a million kuna, you reduced the equipment of school libraries, both in primary and secondary schools. So you've completely reduced your basic and secondary education programs. What happens to capital investments? Especially should we look back on that. Capital investments in 2012 have been completely wiped out in this rebalancing. In 2012, there was a plan of twenty-two million for high school, for elementary school, I apologize for eight million and three hundred for high school. I know it's still just co-financing through various projects through the European Investment Bank, the World Bank, but now you've completely reduced capital investment. That means you won't even provide support for those capital investments, so I'm going to set an example of a crafts school in Sisak that's been spinning here for years. You planned five million kunas this year. You completely abolished that capital investment in 2012. Left six million planned for 2013 and I hope we'll put a shovel in the construction site of this school because local elections are going, so it's needed in the election campaign. Respecting our reality and crisis, the financial and economic situation, I can't take the impression that not that we haven't responded to the tasks that the Ministry has set for itself, but rather the opposite. It destroys the education system, as without increasing the resources for education and science Croatia will lag behind even more than ever before. What you promised and what you said in Plan 20 one was scattered by colleagues and colleagues as a bubble of soap. I won't quote your introduction because this would be tragic for you. None of what you promised and why you stood up until this year until 2012 and 2013, there is no budget for education and science in this budget. I haven't forgotten the decentralised functions either. You cut them last year and increased this year by 50 million kuna, and it all went up. Schools are already on the verge of existence. And electricity and gas and heating and maintenance. It's all paid out of these funds. I'm curious to know what funding criteria you'll bring to primary and secondary schools? Whether students will sit in cold classrooms for a few months or you will have a restriction on water consumption. It is not to believe that you think that cities and municipalities will be able to provide financial and economical resources for material costs. Not to mention the professional training of teachers and teachers because I understand that the financial situation is difficult, but the salaries of teachers and teachers are today below the level of average salaries in other public services almost and the average of salaries in the state, although it is exclusively highly educated people or almost exclusively highly educated people. My colleagues and colleagues, they're not my words. These were your words for the adoption of the programme and the 2011 budget and I'll leave it to all of us, just to finish the sentence. [[Invader Batinić: Thank you very much.]] Excuse me. I'll leave us all one open question. [[Invader Batinić: Here you go.]] Where did those words you said in 2011, 2010 or 2009 get lost in this budget?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22527	Thank you. We have five replicas. Ivan Klarin was the first to answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22528	Thank you, Mrs. Rocksandic. You know where the problem is? The problem was, for local self-government, created in 2007. So, that was the first time you changed the Law on the financing of local self-government units, and I have repeatedly pointed out in this House through replicas that in 2010 you changed the rates of income tax. Do you know what that is since 2007? A billion and five hundred million kuna. If I'm going to recalculate it, it's fifty schools, fifty kindergartens and fifty sports halls. And then don't worry when the Government of Sanader and Mrs. Kosor put it in her pocket in 2007, the poor pocket of local self-government and took a billion and five hundred million kunas a year. This is Mrs. Roksandić's total of nearly seven billion kunas since 2007. There's your kindergartens, there's your school, there's your education, and there's everything you've just stated in your debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22529	Thank you. We have an answer. A colleague of the Rocksandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22530	My colleagues just can't believe that you're really going to transfer everything to the local community. That's the easiest. Do you know how many in the cities and municipalities of the company? Do you know how many companies, how many workers are out of work? Do you know that in Sisak today the unemployment rate is greater than 25 percent? I'm talking about the city I come from, and these are the cities you have most. Don't measure the big cities. Do you know what the product of that is? It's just this unemployment fellow, and do you know what else is the product of that? Indeed, pulling your hands into your pocket with an increase in VAT, with an increase in costs, imposes on citizens you've been working for the past year. This is a problem and it will be a growing problem in 2013 for the local community.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22531	Thank you. Next replica, Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22532	Thank you, Vice President. Well, colleague Roksandic, yes, the situation is difficult, but you have to ask yourself why she's so difficult. From your presentation, I realized that you think that we are magicians, that we can swing a magic wand and correct everything that has been done badly so far in all segments of unfortunately Croatian society, and so is the education from which I come and I know very well how much our colleagues and colleagues do, but do you know that in 2013, the financial expenditures of the state budget that include interest on debts that this government did not take are 10.1 billion kuna. Well, now I'm asking you, you're talking about unemployment, if we consider that one job costs 100,000 euros, so by opening a new job, and I quote that statement by Mr. Cacic, former Deputy Prime Minister at a conference of leaders on July 3rd this year, then we can simply rule out by math that with these expenditures that we pay only for the lack of your economic policy, we could employ 13 467 people right now. And then let me not tell you that this is, so 10.1 billion kuna is almost an annual budget that the Republic of Croatia sets aside for science and education. The failures of last policy, unfortunately, lead us to this, that we must save everywhere and also in education.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22533	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Roxandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22534	I just can't believe you're saying we're saving on education and science right now because you're saying one thing on the board all the time, and now the other. I understand that you have to support a budget like this, but the easiest thing to say is that you're always spinning because you got such a message, 10.1 billion dollars for interest. It wasn't interest, I don't know, so those interest rates didn't come in the last 4.5 or 8 years of this government. So you can figure out what interest is so you can calculate the debts that we had to settle. It's not like anyone's ever mentioned those debts. You will never mention this debt in education, but you will mention something that suits you, and that is clear to me because the budget is a political struggle in this assembly. That's what the political document said, but you said we were wizards, no, your minister is a wizard. He agreed so much, he agreed to take off all the development items for education and for perfecting and for investment, and he's the wizard, because I think with 87,000 kuna, I'm amazed, he's going to reform basic education, and he's up for it. I am now waiting for colleague Hajdukovic to drop when the salaries are due, and you are already falling into education and you are witness to him that he is indeed resigning because he said in May that if any kuna is less for wages in my portfolio, I am resigning. Today is the end of November of the month, none of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22535	Thank you. Next replica, Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22536	Thank you very much. So you see, colleagues of Roksandić, very interestingly, mathematics is heard like this when it's debated the budget that everyone pulls some data. 10 billion deficits last year, an average interest rate of 6 and something else per cent, that's 600 million more interest to you next year. Take as much as the vaults have increased. Therefore, these interest rates that have been so far have been for loans to HDZ deficits, and this increase in interest is your deficits. Therefore, at the end of this mandate, public debt is 40 and something billions more under your projections. However, I did not report to you for the replica, but it is very interesting that the increase in electricity is 20%, the increase in the price of heating in the City of Zagreb, Sisak and Velika Gorica, but in the decentralised funds and the lack of excess for next year. So all this, all these costs will fall to the burden of local self-government units. But the most interesting mathematics is in preschool age, so so far it's been four hours a week mandatory for preschool age, and now according to the new law we discussed last week it's 15 hours mandatory and very interesting that the next part of school year 2012/2013. and the first part of 2013/2014. Minister Jovanovic says no additional funds are needed. Well, now I don't know who's gonna pay for those extra 11 hours of people holding those kids that preschool education, who's gonna pay for the heating, those kids have to be in some kind of space. Therefore, simply certain laws are proposed, but they are not financially followed and not guilty, I said not once today, the Ministry of Finance is not wrong but these are the structural reforms we are talking about. On the one hand, you're going to sting, and on the other hand you're going to open space for some new programs, but obviously it's in our interest to charge ourselves, to attack, to unargumentedly beat ourselves up. But look, every unargumented story brings us to what we experienced in the rebalancing of the 2012 budget, and that is a lack of funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22537	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Here are my colleagues, Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22538	Just one sentence. Comrade Shuker, that's why I'm undermining decentralised funds because it's the everyday life at school. These funds are mainly financed by material costs in schools. And I also underlined the preschool education over which the debate took place almost all day here and when we showed that there wouldn't be enough funding, that what the bill said was not supposed to provide additional funding now shows that it would need it. And it's true, the minister added 88,000 kunas and still states there seems to me in an explanation for about 13,000 children who will attend school next school year. So much for the seriousness of the programme offered by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports as well. So much for being serious.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22539	Thank you. Next replica, Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22540	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I just wanted to actually correct maybe some of the figures that the distinguished representative mentioned. She said a little over 800 million she'd miss. It would be better if she said almost 900 million because it's a 432 million reduction in pay gap and then another 450 about how much she's missing right now. It's almost 900 million, it's about 10% of the pay mass and it's exactly on the trail of what's being said to cut wages, regardless of whether they're still no collective contracts signed or broken or nothing. However, even if that happens, there is no need to interfere with the mind of something, which is that border collective values remain and everything that is written in them, regardless of what the collective contract is terminated, changes etc. They're borderline still worth it. And unfortunately, I'm afraid that this calculation is going to happen similar to what happened ten years ago, and that's that it's going to come up with a series of lawsuits, and then in a year, two, three or five, it's going to be billions again because it didn't mean one fact, and that's actually that these branches are going to be still worth it. Therefore, regardless of what can be read from the budget, all employees, teachers, teachers, etc. A 10% reduction in wages, unfortunately, will not be legally possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22541	Thank you, too. And the last replica of Damir the Roman. Here you go, fellow Roman.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22542	Your Honor, Vice President. So, colleagues, Roksandic, I can't help thinking that your debate actually had a literary office on the subject. I understand that you are an educator, but in your debate, I do not know whether you have collective amnesia or only personal and you forget that the Croatian Democratic Community has managed Croatia for eight years, that indifference in early 2012, amounted to 41 billion kuna, which is the result of your economic recovery and your management. I will mention the purchase of social peace in the country, so I repeat, savings is needed in all sectors, in all resolutions, and not only in the educational portfolio, and that should be said to these citizens. Someone before me mentioned a magic wand. This government, if it had a magic stick like Moses, wouldn't have managed in a short time 11 or 12 months to solve the problems that you have created and left for both Croatian citizens and all of us. Your debts are minor. In your debate, you do not mention debts at all but look at how the Croatian state will function. It will work hard, and it should tell citizens both education and the system of science and the economy, everything will be difficult. But don't forget that those debts and those problems have been left to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22543	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Here are my colleagues, Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22544	Well, dear fellow Roman, my debate may have looked like a literary paper to you, but if you don't know, I'm a professor of Croatian language and literature, and I probably have such sensitivity, so almost all my discussions are almost small essays. But I can't get the impression, because that's just the way it is. When you're some professions, then you can't be purely politicized. As for the debts. I'm doing it again. You forget, I'm talking about education and science that in 2003, you left big debts, you left big debts. Academic Reiner has expressed one concern that this will happen after this calculation. And it's very easy that a fellow Roman will happen, because it's easy to shift you know the guilt from one to the other. We on you, you on us. But the fact I'm talking about the area of education. If you had stayed in debt for a billion and 200 million kunas, that we had paid more than 400 million kunas in 2004 to the educators, that we had managed to make a deal with 40,000 of our colleagues who had agreed to the settlement. That's what I'm talking about. You keep forgetting that, and that's what I was warning you about, that's exactly what you're talking about. I don't forget my debts. I haven't forgotten the interest either, and my colleague Shucker explained to you what will happen to these duties and interest only this year for which you say here we are a year in power and we are not magicians. I haven't forgotten that either.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22545	Thank you. Next up for debate, Zeljko Kolar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22546	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I'm not going to talk about past governments, I'm going to try to say something that our government did positive for me in 2012 and what makes me think that the 2013 budget could be positive. The deficit of 4 billion kuna has been reduced and a credit rating has been maintained. The consolidation of state-owned companies took place, the health contribution was reduced by two percentage points and two and a half billion kuna was left in the economy. An untaxable share of the salary from 1800 to 2200 kuna has been increased, the government has provided two tax debt reprogrammes. We've passed the Pre-war settlement Act, we've raised the threshold for entering the VAT system from 80 to 230 000 kuna. Someone said nothing positive happened this year in the economy, but it's not like that. We have the latest data that there are positive trends in the small economy in this year only 20 percent growth in total income, 10 percent growth in exports, 3 percent increase in investment in equipment and facilities and 2 percent increase in the number of employees this year. The ministry of entrepreneurship and crafts has invested 370 million kunas to this extent this year and have yielded results. What can we expect for next year, and is that possible? For consumption growth to be 1.8%. Is it possible to create a positive climate if we know that saving citizens in banks is 127 billion kuna? Is it possible to increase consumption by 1.8%? I think it's possible, that it's not unrealistic. Can we have gross domestic product growth by 1.8%? Let's try it through the numbers that lead us through the budget when we keep calling on them. The economy ministry has increased the budget from three hundred and fifty-seven million kuna to two billion and ninety-nine million kuna. Of which, for the development, improvement and competitiveness and restructuring of the industry, billions and one hundred and eighty million and for the development of the energy system, seven hundred and thirty million kuna. The Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts has a growth of its budget from four hundred nineteen million kuna to seven hundred seventy million kuna, an increase of 83.45 per cent. Nearly seven hundred million are scheduled for investments. That information I said about growth earlier was brought in by three hundred seventy million kuna investments. In the tourism ministry, it increases its budget from two hundred and four million to two hundred and eighty-one million kuna. An increase of 37.54 per cent, and since this reduction in VAT will happen in tourism and with the excellent results we have had this year, we see no reason why the next year will not be even better in tourism. The finance ministry manages pre-accession funds 100 million kuna, loans to co-finance IPARD projects of the EIB 80 and 9 million kuna. This appropriation is intended to cover: To rehabilitate public institutions billions and 100 million kunas. Ministry of Regional Development, fostering regional infrastructure and economy, four hundred twenty-one million kuna. 50 million kuna for the integrated development of the EIB III local community. One hundred million kuna for the development of assisted areas. All these investments will also be used through the development of local self-government units and will also encourage the work of small medium-sized enterprises and will likely increase employment through this part. Let's go back to Croatian waters, budget three billion three hundred twenty-six million kuna. Of which, the Water Investment Activities Programme is two billion and four million kunas. Regular maintenance and restoration of water streams, water buildings and public water supply are 500 million kunas. There's work for the building. There's a job for a building that may now be in the biggest crisis of all the other branches. The Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund after two years of USKOK, a leap, a leap is finally a situation in the Fund, and the Fund has a budget of one billion and two hundred fifty-three million kuna. Of these, a hundred and one million kuna and four hundred thirteen million kunas are provided for energy efficiency programmes and projects and programmes for environmental protection. Let's go to the Croatian roads. Investment in state roads, two billion three hundred thirty-five million six thousand kuna. The three hundred and six million kuna maintenance programme was co-financed by the ZUC of two hundred forty million kuna. If we add to this the capital strengthening of HBOR with seven hundred million kunas, 1.7 EU entry and the use of European funds. Can it give us a hint of optimism for next year? If we stick to these numbers then we can agree that this is one large sum of money that will be injected into the economy one way or another. Of course we have to have a little bit of luck because we're not just dependent on ourselves. We also depend on the economy of neighbouring countries. Some we can measure, some we can't, some we're more economically involved with, and we have an exchange, some less. But the least we need right now is pessimism, and it's also not good to have some kind of unrealistic optimism. 1.8 percent of what I've listed here seems possible to me. Whether it's coming true or not, we'll talk about it at the end of next year. But it would be good for all of us to put down a little tension and not call ourselves names, who did what from 2001 to 2003, which is from 1995 to 2000, which is from 2003 to 2002, and absolutely no one will benefit from it, nor are we sitting here and the least citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22547	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Josip Boric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22548	Thank you very much. I have to rephrase my colleague Kolara because he talked nicely about that budget and he only took three ministries where this item increased and said it was great, no. We're not against it. In fact, we're glad, you just forgot those other seventeen who had fewer, that might also have been the word to be an objective debate. Now, you're saying all these measures will lead to 1.8% growth. Well, we've heard this debate last year. And then everything was great in the second month, etc. And it all lasted until the sixth month, and then it was said that it wouldn't be so nice anymore. Finally, we had to fix that budget a little bit, etc. But it wasn't malicious, it was just a chance. And you're saying that it's going to increase consumption, that it should be believed, etc. Now, if you have a salary of five thousand kunas, you've had it maybe a year ago just spent it maybe by the twentieth of the month, and now you're going to spend it by the seventeenth. You don't have five grand and two hundred kunas. That's what this is about. How we're going to increase consumption when there's not that physical power of money that counts in kunas. People just don't have money, and if they tell me now that they're going to have maybe a thousand kunas more, and we see that they're going to have a thousand kunas less pay, especially teachers, teachers, those who've already been paid. And then how is it going to increase consumption? That's the problem. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22549	Thank you. We have an answer. A colleague, Zeljko Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22550	Thank you, dear fellow Boric. So here's very simple, so I was talking about the budget that's about investing in the economy. And I wasn't talking about environmental protection, or education, or other segments that would be said about too much. However, I spoke to direct investment in the economy and I said that 'is a real growth of 1.8% or not and we can also talk about why there was no investment in 2012, and we now claim there will be. And why didn't we, say, start EIB III. in this year than we had to transfer it for next year. You know why? Because of that in EIB II. 2010 and 2011 were the debts of the State. The European Bank has fulfilled its obligations, and the state has not, nor could the EIB III. Open up than we had to close the EIB II projects first. And that's right. So we can say that the investments that were made in state-owned enterprises, in Croatian roads, Croatian waters, Croatian highways that took place in 2011, did not even arrive for them in 2011. However, they did not come during the provisional budget, but came in the fourth month of 2012, so instead of the money provided for new investments, accounts from 2011 should be paid otherwise businesses would go bankrupt, so they would have even more unemployment. But then there was another problem that those who were the main contractors didn't pay the subcontractors, so even if you had made a cell, you couldn't realize it because these companies were in a blockade, and you know it very well. So then we had to change the law so that it could be paid directly to subcontractors to save those jobs and that people would not go bankrupt. And that's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22551	Thank you. We continue the debate, Branka Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22552	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I welcome the Honorable Minister with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, every budget can be talked about for days, so what we've come to this many hours isn't something terrible, because almost every item of the budget can tell us a lot what the government's position is towards a particular segment of society. Where is it where we can and where we want to save more or less. It needs to be realistic and to say that the resources of certain, available are getting smaller. The less people work, the more social, and there's no indication it'll get better. However, it is important to see what areas without which we cannot and the savings on these segments of society could lead to an even greater crisis, even greater problems. It's certainly schooling, health care, social care, and fire department. We heard that earlier years, about a billion and six twenty-five million were out to finance these decentralised functions, and then these users were extremely modest. Now that the VAT increase has increased all prices especially of energy, we leave for these purposes three hundred fifty-five million less. The costs of education, education and healthcare are also reduced, and that is enough to say how much the government is committed to these very important segments of society. Earlier, a colleague from the Committee on Education, Science and Culture had an exhibition, and it was interesting to read the same committee’s report. It states that in order to isolate education, these allocations should be increased since education is the basis for further education of society as a whole. Education funding is considered below satisfactory levels and too small to be a moto development. That's what we all sign together. But it's surprising that, after all this constant, the hand is raised again by another reduction in those funds. And of course, all the hardworking people on whom our children's education and education rest, our futures are forced to stand in the protection of their rights in time as they say never worse for them and decide to protest. Imagine what kind of message they send to our children? How much does our government appreciate them? I wonder if we care who and how he raises and educates our children? I wonder what the consequences will be for our children? How they'll solve their problems tomorrow whether they're also protesting, and whether they will treat their teachers equally, as I believe most of us in this assembly are looking at our own, all thanks to this policy. I come from Sibenik-Knin County, and I don't think it's necessary to specifically explain why I am committed and emotionally and particularly focused on fire protection and the functioning of voluntary fire companies. No one here mentioned or noticed, we have a position in the State budget. Support for the equipment of voluntary fire companies, the capital donations of thousands of kunas, and you must know that there are over a thousand and eight hundred ninety voluntary fire companies in Croatia. The amount of thousands of kuna is humiliating, I would say it's a donation that a citizen donates to his country's voluntary fire company. And like I said, I come from Sibenik-Knin County, from the city of Vodice. Our basic activity, I would say, is the only tourism. Everyone like this in these times, we call on, swear on our tourist results and make it even 14.4 percent of Croatian GDP. We are all talking about how we should work to boost competitiveness through a set of measures that we expect even better results in the coming years. And then when the budget is agreed as if both tourism and our tourist areas were forgotten. In particular, the promotion of economic activity on the islands and in the coast of the 2013 budget is halved. Of the modest eight million kunas, we now have only four. The amount foreseen for the promotion of municipal and social infrastructure on islands and coasts is reduced. Twenty-five million were spent for the development of the island in 2011, and now it is estimated that 60 per cent less than or 9.5 million kuna, which confirms what Prime Minister Milanovic has said today, that life on the islands is easier. He just so looks at life on the islands, and it was still interesting to hear how a fellow representative from Slavonia said it, and that would probably have happened to me tonight, if that were it, says that's your election base, not mine. It is unfortunate that the prime minister does not treat the entire Republic as his original base. Is this the reason why a reduction of thirty-five percent is planned for the development of maritime transport and port infrastructure, as well as the planned reduction of funds by about 30 and six million kunas for the Coastal Line Transport Agency. If it is known that fuel prices have increased, then there is a significant reduction in the number of shipping lines and the connection of land and islands. And today we had a big sign in the paper that twenty percent less Italians were in Croatia this year due to lack of boat connections. And it's all assuming we have a 1.8% GDP growth. I wonder what's gonna happen if there's not that much growth or God forbid it's gonna fall? As next year we expect to achieve an increased number of overnight stays, a greater number of guests and what is most important, an increase in tourism revenues with even less investment and individualisation for the economy, infrastructure and development on our Adriatic. And so far, all of these successes in tourism have been primarily credited by exceptional tourist workers who, by their kindness, day and night, strive to compensate our guests for many shortcomings, and the next 2013, when the reduction of spending from fifty to sixty percent in the coast and islands plans what incomes we can expect. And so I invite you to think about our shores even when you're putting together a budget and deploying funds even though it's winter. Don't remember us just when it's summer, when you mean the sun and the sea. Do not then show us concern in the way of enhanced supervision of various inspections in order to drain more from our tourism in these few months. Now show your concern in greater separations for our islands and shores.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22553	Thank you. We have a replica, Ivan Klarin. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22554	My dear colleague Branka, the mayor of my neighboring city. You criticised the budget and three days ago you rebalanced the city of Vodice's budget for increasing revenues from the State budget. Construction of a school sports hall in Pure Great, ten million nine hundred ninety-six thousand. Nine hundred thousand kuna The Ministry of Regional Development for Unclassified Roads, Croatian Waters and you, my dear colleagues, my neighbour have the right to criticise this budget. Now, about the investment in the islands. I will now read until we run out of time, I am counting: water supply system of Drvenik Veli and Drvenik Mali, the disposal system of Milna na Brač, the disposal system in Selci same on Brac, the system of disposal of Jelsa Vrbovska on Hvar, the system of disposal of Stari Grad Hvar, the system of disposal of Blato municipalities, the system of disposal of Lumbarda municipalities in Korčula, the reconstruction of home building for elderly persons in Stari Grad on Hvar, the construction of homes for older persons in the town of Rab, the construction of the primary school of Meteorezi, the construction of the primary school of Ciovo, the construction of the school hall in Smokvica, the construction of the elementary school, the construction of the sports hall in Orebić, the construction of the sports hall in Solin, construction of the high school sports hall in Supetr, construction of the sports hall in Smokvica, construction of the watering of the water-building of the water-building of the water-runing of the waterway, construction of the waterway, construction of the construction of the waterway of the waterway of the waterway of the waterway of the waterway of the waterway, the water from the waterways of the water from the waterways of the water, the waterways of the waterways, the water, the water from the waterways of the water, the waterways of the water from the watering of the waterways, the watering of the watering of the water. Shall we move on, colleague Branka? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22555	Thank you. We have an answer from a colleague of Yurichev-Martinchev's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22556	My colleague, I'm extremely grateful for all the help my city gets and my neighborhood gets, but obviously you didn't get the message. I believed that you would give support to help the sea, islands and shores even more.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22557	Thank you. We have the next line. I suggest you discuss these details with your colleagues for coffee. We have a second line, colleague Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22558	Thank you very much. Here I have to replicate to a respected HDZ colleague, because today she was the first to talk about islands, and I'm really going to say that it's a good thing that this government continues HDZ programmes, and it's not good for those same programs that were launched long ago to leave less and less funds every year. That's a fact. I am afraid that it is at the outset to amend the Island Law by looking at the items of this Budget because it reduces funds on subsidies, both for road transport and water supply, and we hear about island employers. Liner transport funds have been reduced and the Island Law is likely to be amended. We don't know that. We'll find out maybe in 2013. But the items point to that. Something's about to change. Now that we are, here's a colleague who listed this project, they're all familiar to me, I feel like I started them three years ago. You understand? Because one part entered into this loan of the European Investment Bank two, the European Investment Bank three. One part was financed from the state's capital aid, and that's the problem of this country. Right there. Why? Because we leave five million kuna for the city of Vrulje and the value of the investment is seventy million, so we're going to build one garage for twelve years, so we're going to build another port, and we're going to build a new school for three years. We haven't had an investment effect since one time, and that's the problem. A lot of projects, it all kind of disintegrates into little bits and it then lasts from year to year, and that's why the problem is that you simply can't see the effect of building investments because all of this within these descriptive items is distributed into dozens of small budgets and then you for a school hall that costs 10 million kuna, you have to build it for 3 years to get 2 and a half, 3 million kuna each year. It can be effectively built in a year. That's our problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22559	Thank you. We have the next line, Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22560	Thank you very much. Well, since we've already started doing this kind of patriotic replication, but it's very interesting when we're patriotically replicating the place that nobody mentions the Croatian Waters' Finance Plan, which is not at all negligible at its own cost, and it's also not negligible for local self-government units because it's precisely through these funds of many local self-government units, it's the only way in principle to solve their water drain problems and supply drinking water. However, it is very interesting to see these contracts recently signed in Croatian waters a month ago and a few more days ago. But there's one tiny clause if funds are provided, and since it's been 11 months now, so that part of the cost probably goes next year, but the most interesting thing is to look at how that cookie was shared. So let's say one city that's pretty big and I'm particularly fond of it, Great Gorica asked for 148 million. But it's very interesting, she only got 2 million for the drain project, but it doesn't matter what she got 2 million, but the thing is that a complete eastern part of Zagreb County is planning to be supplied tomorrow with drinking water from the Velika Gorica area. And in order to protect these new water supply sites, the problem of draining wastewater must be solved. Now let's switch from this budget to the financial plan of Croatian Waters or Croatian Roads so that we who are in that section towards Banovina and towards the Bosnian border, ask what about this unfortunate highway of Sisak? Sometimes Cacic, Vidovic, started shovels doing it on that famous Sisak Bridge. We started building the same thing from Velika Gorica, so Picula tried something with the buggers, but the whole story came down to the fact that the road, unfortunately, is not finished by the citizens of Banovina. Well, it's kind of a patriotic place.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22561	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Walter Bobcun. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. And the next vice president, Zeljko Reiner. Here's a colleague, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22562	Dear Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary with Associates, allow me to refer a little more to the health care section because it's closest to me. The fact is that when compared, therefore, this health budget relative to that of this year after the rebalancing, then it's about 140 million less. In itself, it can and doesn't have to mean much, 140 million to 21 billion, and something might seem a little bit of money. However, when we know that health care is, in all countries, a constant year by year because of new technologies, due to new medicines, etc. More and more money, it's important that it doesn't grow too fast, but it's always growing, and then it's very much and that reduction we have to worry about. But there's something that worries a lot more, that's when you analyze certain items. So on stationary health care, it's shrinking somewhere by more than 2.6 billion kuna, but it's increasing to a specialised consular health care unit by just over two billion kunas. Okay. We can say that's where half a billion kuna is lost. However, it can also be interpreted as reducing the stationary health care that will be compensated with polyclinical health care in hospitals. But when we think about the real effect it will have on clinical hospitals, clinical hospitals, etc. Then it translates it into your daily language, means that instead of the top-of-the-line institutions that now exist where transplants are done, where top-of-the-line procedures are done, etc. You're going to make them become giant polyclinics, huge ambulatory plants where mass, examinations, simple, cheap checks are going to have to be done in a large amount. And I don't really know what's going to happen to the bed capacity? He's saying they're going to shrink. What does that mean? If you close half the unit of one, you'll still need all the same nurses in that department, and you can't reduce the number of nurses there. So you're not going to achieve any significant savings, and there's going to be an enormous problem with those serious, severe patients who are actually supposed to be lying in the hospital. Through this course, it may seem likely that some diagnostic and therapeutic procedures will reduce waiting lists, these clinics, however, will be significantly and very clearly and responsibly behind this, significantly disrupting actually top medicine in all of those clinical hospitals, clinics, clinical hospitals that exist. If that were the case, I can only tell you one example in our neighbouring Slovenia, let's say, their main clinical hospital UKC has only about ten percent of the waste on this polyclinical consular protection and everything else is stationary protection, so these top-level procedures that are on heavy patients, lying patients, etc. I am therefore afraid that such a redistribution of this far too little money to be allocated to health, unfortunately with this budget will have huge and inconspicuous consequences. What I would also like to say, as far as the entire sum is concerned, is the fact that when you look at the money provided for hospital health care, it's actually not practical enough to pay. Payments in Croatian hospitals at this time are approximately 500,510 million kuna per month, so if you look at how much is scheduled for hospitals then you can see that they almost cover no salaries, let alone all other material costs, medicines, diagnostics, etc. How is that going to work out, if we're going to fire nurses and doctors, of course we won't, and of course that's not going to happen. What's going to happen is there's going to have to be a drastic wage reduction, and that's actually what this budget is talking about. However it tries to cover up he will drastically cut wages and this will be the result of obviously these talks now, negotiations etc., but he will say not to lower the base but to add. And now it's media preparation about how there are hundreds of supplements, etc. Then when we remember a little bit of history how it was then in the past it was because there was no basis to increase, there was a collective contract, there was a government regulation but then there was really too little paid healthcare workers, especially sisters in some way actually compensated for that too little base with accessories. And indeed, they have all kinds of supplements, but if those supplements are abolished, are you aware of what will happen? For example, in primary health care, a sister with an ESS of 30 years of work experience, she loses 19% on the salary of January 1, 21% and without the 0.5% per year, as much as 35%. The nurse with the Soviet Union and 20 years of employment will lose 14% on the 1st of January, 20%, and about 30% will be without the 0.5 per year. Hospital nurse VSS, for example, who works in intensive care, an extremely difficult, difficult, responsible job, a very difficult job with a 30-year job will lose 33% of salary supplements. It actually amounts to about 50% without 0.5 years. Most will be affected by the very older nurses who have been doing this heavy and responsible job for 30 years, and then let's say the main nurses, clinics, a very important function, a responsible function with 35 years of employment, a top career, will lose 50% of the salary, as much as 65% without 0.5% per year. So it's a rough calculation actually without a reduction based on nights, Saturdays, Sundays and so on because they're specifics that maybe you shouldn't be talking about right now. So, the only way that will obviously happen where the health care will even be able to survive will be that it will drastically reduce salaries to healthcare professionals, doctors, but especially sisters who, because of this particular flossula, will actually get their salaries cut by 1/3, by half, etc., so to those who are actually doing the hardest, most responsible jobs. And that's exactly what I think you should think about because I'm afraid if we don't think about it now we're going to be in a big problem. There's another topic that I've already made today, and this is a drastic reduction in education and science separation. We need to be aware of the facts, especially when we talk about science, that what this budget foresees is literally symbolism and mockery. I used that term, I stand behind it because 80 million kuna for all scientific research in the state of Croatia is just ridiculous. With that money, you can't do anything, although I remind us all together when we discussed here on several occasions, a few months ago when we talked about the National Science Foundation, when we talked earlier about topics related to science that we all actually agreed that science is important, that research is important, that we have to give more money for research, etc. I then reminded all of us, said I'd come by in a few months' budget. The budget is the place to show if we really want... to step into science and research or not. Unfortunately, this budget reduces it drastically. Of course it wasn't zero, as the Honorable Mr. Minister said, of course it wasn't zero, it was 140 million on that item, so this year it fell to 100 million, now it belongs to 80 million. But much more important is one other fact, our lasting relationship with science. In the last 10 years, when you look at actually how many permanent researchers are the number of 1,000 employees of a country's population, which is one of the indicators, we are constantly falling. We've got it under four somewhere around 3.60. For example, in Slovenia it's 7.15, in Slovakia one over 5, in Austria it's over 8. So this increase that we should do, and which would certainly be important to us, is impossible to achieve without the planned investment from the state budget. There's no other money that'll boost that, but the state budget. In all countries, it is so, and we do not need to invent hot water. Therefore, there is no work at all, and there I absolutely agree with my colleague Kolar, there is no point in talking about what happened in the past, etc. At the end of the budget is a view of the future, the budget is what we want in the next year and next years, in which direction we want to go. So if we're talking about science and education, then I'm afraid that's not a good direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22563	Thank you very much. Please finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22564	In small countries, this number that I've been saying is actually supposed to be much bigger, and since we're a small country, we really should care about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22565	Thank you very much. You have two replicas, so you'll be able to continue. A colleague Drazen Djurovic, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22566	Thank you. Well, you, Professor Reiner, touched that health budget and that little part of the problem attached to it. You've had experience, you've been Minister of Health for years. If the Minister of Finance were aware and part of the burden of problems in the health system, he would not have thought that a billion, two or three kunas from real estate tax would be able to compensate these problems and the failure of that system that is likely to follow in years and the unsustainability of that system that follows in years to come. In practice, we sort of coordinate as much as we look at it, so we say the gas is not twice as cheap in Croatia as it is in EU countries or 30% cheaper, gasoline is 20% cheaper, our wages are half as low, but the prices of health services according to the HZZO price list are 10, 12 or 15 times lower than those prices of the same health services paid to the insurance company in the Federal Republic Health Services. Therefore, this system that has been established and the current system as it is certainly unsustainable for years, and for years, all the tails have been dragging behind them for years, and no financial input is actually going to change the system without truly fair and serious structural reforms that will go on other grounds and not even a few hundred million kunas more or less in the state budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22567	Replication response, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22568	Dear Madam Vice President, Your Honor, this is quite true what you said, but I will use this time perhaps just to point out a few more moments regarding the health care budget that are at least worrying if not completely illogical. One is a reduction in the significant cost of prescription medicinal products. This is a 273 million kuna reduction in the cost of prescription medicines. If you know that in all countries of the world the cost of medicines is constantly rising, it is important that they do not grow too steeply, once in Croatia they grew 20% annually, and that was very bad, in all countries they grow. They grow between 8 and 12%. That's the reality, then. And we are now predicting a reduction in this and predicting a reduction despite VAT coming on drugs from next year, and we are predicting 273 million kunas less. So how is that going to happen? Well, of course it's unrealistic, it's completely unrealistic. We predict a reduction in information costs, and we introduce e-orders and e-medicine everywhere, and we less allocate money for that. In addition, what is very important is increasing formally by 244 million health care of supplementary insurance although it shows a more recent history in the last two years when it has been trying to compensate for the depriving of other items with supplementary insurance that it is unrealistic and has never been achieved. Therefore, it is one item that sounds very nice on paper, in the next rebalancing it will disappear unfortunately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22569	Thank you. And the replica of colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22570	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Reiner, you've touched two actually, so we can also say the key topics that we've been discussing today and we're walking around like a cat about hot porridge, but we can't guess that. When we talk about science, the question is whether Croatia can think about making a living in the future or become a country of cheap labour. And now I'm gonna pull one parallel with no intention of being mean. If we pay someone 80 million kuna for monetizing Croatian highways, it means that we want to buy someone's mind and someone's knowledge and someone's name, and at the same time, we allocate 80 million kuna for all scientific projects in Croatia, then we send a clear message as to how much we hold to our science and our knowledge. And does with this investment in science and knowledge do you have this kind of attitude towards higher education and higher education towards others because at the end of whatever relationship you have for a higher education in one part of the financial unit you can't control the exact same story you have in health care. And in health care, there are several billion kunas of income, the original revenues of hospitals that are practically out of this budget. However, if health care in the Republic of Croatia turns more than 30 billion kuna, it is very important whether it costs 10% more or 10% less. Because that means whether the labour price for the health contribution will be 10% higher or 10% lower. Or the finance ministry will have to secure some other sources of income from that 10%. So when we talk about someone who spends 30 billion kunas of budget then it's very important how this system works, how efficient it is and whether it needs certain structural reforms to clearly say we want to have such health care and we want to have such a network of hospitals because simply if we want to have it costs so much, if we want to have it, then it costs so much. And when we begin to discuss this in this House without figs in our pocket and without politics, then the people of the Ministry of Finance will be easier.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22571	Thank you very much. The word was requested by a representative of the proposing minister, Minister Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22572	Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We have touched on two sectors in which essentially huge reforms should in some way ensure quality funding and science and education, as well as the health system. And that's what's most important we need. You can also list this and what, for example, the most criticism I have suffered because the Ministry of Health went best in the budget, the best. It's for the best. Compare last year's execution, and you'll see how much it's won. But that's not enough either. And at the same time, we're going to be dealing with the recovery of the facility right now. We're going to try to end the mess because... Staff is the one that is constantly employed in county hospitals, in health homes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It means that those who don't wear a white uniform, I don't count from doorman, driver, electrician, carrier and all that. Yes, these are the policies that individual mayors conduct. These are policies supported by individual directors and who have the protection of their founders, have protection. Obviously, there's a lot to change. And I agree with what Mr. Shucker said. There are no major changes without major changes, no reforms. Also, once we figure out what a university is, it's a college. Who's gonna handle it? The government with the scientific community, because simply these changes are necessary. We have to choose. So far less will invest, far less. Far more into projects, but a system that we don't reform is the reason that we have major deficits and that we can hardly control them. Reforms, that reform. I have to say as far as the Minister of Health is concerned, he's trying to say that we're going to have a network of hospitals, we're going to clearly define what the size of hospitals are, and that's going to help you with the Law of Resuscitation of the Institute. Why? Since I don't believe that the regional self-government units will resuscitate the losses then they will give him authority and responsibility to carry it out. I just don't know what to do with the education system. There's a lot to change in that part, and I don't know when we're going to reform it, because there's too much talking going on. Personally, from 2000 to today, not a millimeter in the education system has moved, not a millimeter. Thus, we spend too much on these systems for maintaining the system, and we invest too little in development. And as long as we don't solve it, that's the situation. So here we can say that we're guilty, because we're not reforming ourselves, we're not changing what we're supposed to be. We don't turn to a patient enough, not a student or a student. We worry about living in that system. And at that point, we really need to say that I'm a deficit, the very problems of overexploitation for these two systems, and they're not so tragic, it's important to reform them. The moment we reform them, we'll be more satisfied with the investments, I'd say the way the funds are distributed to those two systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22573	Thank you. The Republic has Vice President Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22574	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Well, I am very much in agreement with you and Mr. Shucker, but the problem is precisely that in this budget, and let's remind ourselves repeatedly what the budget is, the policy translated into figures. You can't see anything from this budget. That's the problem. I agree with you that a number of reforms should be made both in health care and in higher education. You don't mention basic and secondary education that are highly disrupted by this budget, but maybe even there should... I agree with that, but where are these reforms? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Where are the plans for these reforms? Well, they're not here. They're not seen from this budget, they're not in this budget. That's the problem. That's why I refer to these things, which is why if certain moves are to be made, and I think some moves should be made, and then they should be clearly defined. Then we can't keep the figure in our pocket and interpret certain items like they are now, so we don't give the money because it's wrong, but we're not going to do anything dramatic in the future, so it's going to work. That should be seen, if that's transparent, then you should see it. Where are those documents that say that? There's no such thing. Neither does the Health Strategy say anything about it. So let's be clear. I mean, there's a problem. I agree with you on a good part of your exposure. I don't agree with everything of course. Because let's just say you said that science will fund projects and not finance anything else. And right on the projects, the least money is given, and the other one is given some money. And right on the projects, you took off the most money. But I'm saying again, I agree that they need reform but they're not in this budget, and that's why he's not developed, and that's why he's harmful, I think, by science and by health care. That's exactly why. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22575	Next line, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22576	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So I'm going to go on with what my colleague Reiner was saying when I was in my individual debate, then I said that unfortunately there are few people sitting in this assembly, who have read those hundreds of pages where the cost and the program is defined why these money is being spent. And there's nothing in these materials that we want to say all the time without the intention of attacking, which is that without heavy structural reforms, there's no change on the spending side. And Mr. Minister, in that reformed budget that wants to show where money is spent and why money is spent, unfortunately, is gone. But I'm just saying, unfortunately, there's very little of those who like to attack and it's pretty low under the belt. They haven't even looked at the budget. I just can't discuss these things. But you're not the first finance minister, nor is this your last health care recovery. All those who were in Katančić from Prka, Škegra, the Church, me, Dalićka, and now, at the end of the day, all of you had one, two or three phases of rehabilitation in health care. And in the end, when we finally say let's go out and buy all the drugs and deal them in hospitals from somewhere else, so we can squeeze our money, not load someone's pocket. Because when it was decentralisation of county hospitals, it was 2002. We can take out the debate, and we'll see what's been said here. It was said that the county hospitals of decentralised funds could not finance hospitals for the simple reason why someone sets their programme, determines their price, and they would need it from the few funds they receive and cover it. And that's the problem that's been going on since 2002, and no one has solved it, and we've all rescheduled those county hospitals. But if he doesn't solve the problem first, Mr. Minister can manage it anyway, but if he comes from the ministry, he has to do it, that his prices are like that, and he gets so much from decentralised functions, and that's how much he's going to create a minus again. So, just some things have to be crossed, they can't go like that anymore, and it has to be seen in this text explanation of the budget where it's talked about the place of spending and the program for which the money is spent.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22577	Thank you very much. We're continuing an individual debate. It's Nikola Vuljanić's turn, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22578	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The adjective most often heard by the authorities and this part of the Parliament was that this budget was responsible. The budget is responsible that's true, I can believe but the question is who he's responsible for. According to our European so-called We're doing everything we're told. According to the stability of the banking sector, it certainly gives responsibility. Recently, a colleague here said that one of our draft laws is an attack on the banking system, a threat to the banking system, and thus the Republic of Croatia. This budget doesn't do it he's responsible and keeps that beautiful system of ours. According to the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, he is certainly responsible. Whether they're here or not, we're doing everything like they're over our necks. So he is responsible to everyone but is least responsible to Croatian citizens. According to those who fill that budget and those who should get something from that budget, that's their money. This austerity polytics, politics, we call it savings policy but the word austerity doesn't mean saving, it means poverty, misery you can translate it in many ways but mostly there's somewhere meaning, there's nothing but the basic one. This policy has not brought anywhere in the world, but others have figured it out, and they are slowly beginning to give up on the system. It didn't do anyone any good except for those who are responsible and this budget, so other than those who are basically also these quasi economic crisis, which is not an economic crisis, which is a monetary crisis, an imaginary monetary crisis, a crisis with a fictional, non-existent, fictitious and virtual money that actually keeps us in the scissors of a small group of world rich people. Croatian citizens see what you, in an explanation of this budget, as well as the government calls it measures and reforms, Croatian citizens see it as an attack, not just in their own pocket. Those who have an attack on their pocket are only less important and fewer. We can count on it, it's attacking our pocket, so our salary won't be 2,000 euros a month, it'll be 1850. And the horrors! Croatian citizens see this as an attack on naked existence and one good part of Croatian citizens, each day increasing, that is, the attack on naked existence. What exactly is going on with a savings budget like this? It is the fact that so far we have had a rate, or part of GDP, set aside for science and higher education at the bottom of Europe. Now we're not at the bottom, we're at the bottom, now we're at the bottom, and that's probably the lowest rate in Europe. If you look at the costs of medicines paid by the Health Insurance Office, the costs for stationary treatment in hospitals are reduced. So what does the budget offer us? He offers us children who will be less educated and offers us older ones that we will be treated worse or in no way. When you put another 5% of VAT on drugs on it, I could now name and name a dozen pensioners who, after introducing VAT on drugs, will stop using drugs with an "Well, if the devil takes me, I can't afford this," quotes the quote. The budget is a political act. That's what you can see from this budget. These figures are politics if you want policy poetry, everything inside is contained. Much nicer and much better than all the arguments of the law, than all the resolutions and declarations. The policy of the tax system takes someone and then through the budget to someone. By whom he takes and whom to judge the righteousness and attitude of the government. This budget is unfair because it takes away the poor, and it does not want to tax those who buy expensive yachts and diamond necklaces. This budget is unfair, and the government sets it up so I don't know how to relocate it whole but it puts it definitely into the right liberal group. I'm not moving, am I? If it suits the government, and now the citizens are watching us I get a text message here five minutes ago, if the government's answer is to be declared as such, no one can help you. You can say that you're doing an unpleasant job that someone has to do because what happened before happened and what's true that it happened, but it won't justify you to the fact that in no way through such documents and through the complete conduct of the government you don't show understanding for those people who find it difficult in this country. There are more and more of these every day, and they are increasingly bitter at themselves and the fact that they voted as they voted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22579	Thank you. We have three replicas. Drazen Djurovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22580	Thank you. Well, you've opened several interesting topics that may be slightly out of the budget, but it's worth mentioning. For example, when it comes to health care and this health care system, it is also a fact for these health and medicine companies that huge money is needed and that there are indeed a variety of interests and different interest groups that are seriously and well-earned through this system by importing and delivering various services, materials, medicines, aids, consumer material and the like in the Republic of Croatia. Interestingly, foreign pharmaceutical companies have in the mid-1990s in the Republic of Croatia inaugurated a system of aggressive sales and acquisitions of medicines in which they have actually involved a good part of the doctor in one way or another. So this was brought to Croatia, brought to Croatia, and then after 15.20 years of such practice suddenly look who turns out to be guilty, a Croatian company that manufactures generic medicines. Interesting. There is a main focus, one mini company that produces cheap generic drugs in the Republic of Croatia. She is the holder of corruption in the sale of medicines and dealing of these medicines in the Republic of Croatia. With all these chains that have been doing this for the past 15.20 years or so in the Republic of Croatia. Or with all this food artificial and similar that is imported into the Republic of Croatia, a small company from Slavonia that produces pasta turns out to be guilty of putting additives. Some kind of additive that's not harmful, but that's forbidden. This little private company that manufactures in Slavonia. With all this food and all the stuff that's been brought to the Republic of Croatia, no one has found themselves on a pillar of shame in recent years except these two private small companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22581	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22582	It's true, pal. The culprit is always some kind of Pedro. Why there is no investment in Croatia, who is to blame. Well, it's wrong that we haven't liberalized the labour market. Have you ever heard of an investor who said it was wrong not to have cheap workers in Croatia? It's wrong that the state is a slow, corrupt, bad and corrupt state administration. That's right. That's right. I personally consider why I mentioned health care and education only because I consider it human rights, something that the state cannot, cannot and should not be spared. That's why there's a state, which is why there's another to protect those who can't protect themselves, kids in education, sick in hospitals. If they're not human rights, if they're goods, then we're completely in Darwinism, then we don't need this independent, sovereign and free state. Who she'll protect, who she exists for.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22583	Thank you. The next call came Branko Vuksic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22584	Your Honor, Vice President. Comrade Vuljanić, you have just detected the biggest problem is that the state acts like Super Hik, takes the poor and gives the rich. Let's say this evening, this entire day is often talked about banks, but neither Minister Linic nor Prime Minister Milanovic has mentioned any word of the bank. It's like they're contagious, like they don't exist in Croatia, and maybe they don't exist because they're not ours, so it's not our problem, so nothing can be done. So long as the state exists because of a small group of people, a rich group of people, and it doesn't exist because of its citizens, it doesn't have its own meaning, it doesn't have its fullness. It makes sense if you take care of your citizens, if you care about the majority, not the minority. And yet I'm going back to that old thesis that, that's neoliberal capitalism. As much as this right to God the Social Democratic Party, the right hand of me, so that these really right-handed women may not be offended. Yes, it is the behavior of those who are tiling on non-liberal capitalism and all that I have said before in this budget that the government is entirely on the side that supports neoliberal capitalism and does not support its citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22585	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22586	The prime minister is that long ago, in fact, he himself said that he was the president of a modern liberal party. You can tell from everything. And on the side now moral consideration and what seems fair to us or is not fair, but the logic of keeping society so that one narrow elite gets rich, and then we'll all be better off being launched by Franjo Tudjman and his team in the '90s proved not only unfair, it's not important at all but ineffective. It doesn't work just for us, it doesn't work anywhere. It doesn't work anywhere. Everywhere in countries where 2% of the population has 98% of the national wealth, it just doesn't work. Things are collapsing. So why do we have to repeat other people's mistakes?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22587	Thank you. And the last replica, Goldie Tušak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22588	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague of Vuljanic, you mentioned in your discussion that part of this budget is an attack on citizens' existence. Clearly in our country when we talk about VAT, we're a state with one of the biggest VATs. The question is, who's paying for it? They pay citizens in the most part. When we talk about an increase in electricity and when the current goes up to that current, VAT is charged again at a higher price and higher VAT. Who's paying again? That's what citizens pay for again. When we talk about increasing gas to gas, the same thing is when the VAT is calculated who will pay the other than the citizens. Clearly in their part, the highest price is paid by citizens. When we also talk about introducing VAT into what we have agreed to join the EU, which is on bread and milk, then we will not wait until the 1.7 obligation to introduce that rate of 5% but to introduce it from 1.1 next year. Who's gonna pay for that? They'll pay for these citizens. And it's clear that it's total when we're talking about an attack on citizens' existence, because ultimately citizens pay for it all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22589	Thank you. We have an answer, Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22590	... Of course it's such a big VAT, that the real estate tax that is in this and that form is going to be introduced in a few months, of course, that it's all an expensive attack on citizens' escapistance as they've known so far. [[Specially enabled.]] Well, of course we're not going to starve to death in Europe. Of course, but the existence this government proposes and which this budget outlines is kind of like we never imagined in a free and democratic society. We all imagined it a little differently. That's how it doesn't seem to work out. On the other hand, what employers pay, i.e. contributions are reduced without a problem. And two billion kunas isn't as much money as it was said when the health care contribution was cut, it's not much money that would be very helpful to employers. Nothing seems to have helped them, as nothing in the Croatian economy has happened with those two billion. Maybe the joke's somewhere else.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22591	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, the word was requested by Minister Linic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22592	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. If I'm not mistaken for one argument, I've completely devoted myself to the banking system and the stories of whether we're just or not. Well, it's no problem to repeat it once again, so it doesn't turn out that this government, especially the SDPs, is as rich as you say, we support the rich, we fight those rich. Then let me try one more time very clearly. Banks pay profit tax and are not exempt from profit tax, such as all those entrepreneurs who will be able to get rid of corporate income tax obligations. They'll pay the full amount as prescribed by 20%. Therefore, we tax their profits. There's a question of whether to introduce new taxes? Well, I remember a SDP club that clearly said, if you give high interest, we'll tax the interest you give above average because you can't use the high interest you make on deposits to finance the economy. And as you can see this year, we can't say that there's high interest, you can't. In this year, unlike many of the first to give support to recovery procedures and new economic recovery methods, they were bankers, because they also want to solve their own, I would say negative activity, negative investment. But they also want to recover the debtors so that they can simply work and live with them. Yes, it is the behaviour of the banking system in Croatia. And also when we talk about the banking system, we keep talking about transactions and taxes on financial transactions. Well, we're not in a hurry about that. And you know why? Because that is the money that enters the EU, the tax that is being negotiated within the EU this year. There's been a lot of conflict. It is, a tax on banking transactions, only there will be no revenue from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. No, he'll go to special funds that need to be served when the bankers crash again. And we won't manage that money. That's why we're in no hurry. No, we are waiting to see what the European Union will agree on, how much this will mean for us additional contributions to the European Union. So, what we're talking about right now, what we're talking about. The benefits. Well, you see, tomorrow I think the cover of Morning's "I don't accept bankers' real estate tax." They do not accept to lower the price of real estate or the price of unsold apartments. They don't accept that it's both employers or business people who missed, so they built apartments and they don't let them sell cheaper apartments. They won't let the citizens get to the big apartments. And we say all right, you'll pay taxes, you'll pay taxes. Therefore, there is no tax on real estate on citizens. He's going to business banking. We want to bring order, we want to get them in line. Yeah, that's right. The missing investment of bankers in entrepreneurs who built properties that now have no markets, have no markets in Croatia nothing happens, nothing. A, lower income in taxes, lower revenues in the state budget. All companies hold supplies, have deductible items on all investments in apartments, all investments in business premises. No one paid the VAT. When we say gentlemen all right, you can fight real estate taxes, and then we'll start talking about when we decide to ask that everything you refused, because you keep the supplies conscious with unrealisticly high prices, you'll have to pay back, you'll have to pay back. Yeah, it's bank accounts, and we discuss with them every day what they did, where they invested money and how guilty they are about this situation in the real economy. That's what we want to change. So we're seriously talking to them about how to control interest rates, how to secure enough resources, but you'll also allow what we think we need to change, and we're very serious about it. So you can have that grade, you can say that we're the ones who support the rich, just don't see me exactly in actions, measures, programs and laws that we offer to turn to the rich. However, we keep telling people that our health care system is being held by workers with two, three, four thousand kuna salaries. They're providing us with health care money. Is that real? It's not. Let's change that. Let us determine who these are richer people who still need to give something more for the needs of health and education. Yeah, they're very different. It's important, but obviously we don't understand that we really don't want to understand each other. No, it's important to accuse someone. Well, you know when we talk about unloading, discharging the economy to hire people who are in the institution, so it's not helping the rich again, it's not helping the rich. Everything we negotiate through the financial restructuring of companies, plans are important, plans are important and we want to see where he will hire it, where he will invest for everything we forgive him. But also then the attack, why do they have to make plans, why do they have to take expert teams that will have to evaluate something? So that we should not be deceived, because we want to control anyone who has not paid the obligation not to deceive us again, that it may be the one who will be responsible for the employees, to bring back those employees he fired. Yeah, it's government policy, it's politics. Fortunately, not all employers are, many are, and that is why we feel that we need to work very responsibly on that one who has the power to be in the real sector to be turned around by the employment of those who tomorrow mean growth and stability. It is therefore not the government of the Republic of Croatia that supports even wealthy entrepreneurs, nor does it support the banking system. You know, the entrepreneurs resented us because we're going with austerity measures, that we've also imposed a tax of up to 12% on paid dividends that they've resented us as well. And we said gentlemen, 0% of the profit tax if you don't reinvest it, if you're worried about hiring people, but if you're taking it, you have to pay 12%, with all due respect that it's your profit, that you've earned it. Yes, we were also resented for saying that our reputation and use of the car had no rejection of the pre-taxes, and they resented it. But that's where the government showed very clearly we have to save. Everyone has to save, but you don't have the right to behave wastefully, because unfortunately many entrepreneurs, not everyone has shown that it's important for them to form a company to buy a car and that they can go to a retrieval and refuse pre-tax. That's what we've been trying to stop. It's messages, it's programs, it's all documents. So how do we help the rich? As a result, huge dissatisfactions in the HUP that they find inappropriate, that it is unacceptable and that it is also not a happy banking system. So if we want to talk about the details, we can give them as much as you want. But the message is, we save wherever it takes, the battle to overcome this crisis, but all segments of society and we don't raise anyone, and nobody. And that message goes to the tax system not to raise revenue, not to raise income, to replace tax burdens, to give to the economy but also to ask of it. We don't give banking.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22593	Thank you. We have four reported replicas. Mr Branko Vuksic answered first. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22594	Dear Minister, you said it was important to charge someone and the next or the final sentence was, I don't see that we're turning to the rich. Here I'm going to point out just above all, it doesn't matter to accuse anyone or you're not on the defendant's bench or it was my intention, but I'm going to give you an example just to deny you. You have abolished the burden on telecommunications services six months ago, and you have imposed on books, on bread, on professional magazines, on medicines six months earlier. Who's paying for this first advance? Who's paying for this other load? So that's what's denying you. Is that a little money? Is that big money? Citizens are looking at your moves like that. We know how these moves happened. So more subtlety. We're just looking on behalf of the citizens who are now texting us, who are sending us e-mails, who say ask, tell us. Citizens listen to and analyze what you say and what you do, what moves you make. So I don't think I'm actually speaking for myself. I didn't mean to accuse you. That banks pay taxes on profits, so best not to pay more taxes, pay, but you know well that additional taxes have been introduced in some countries. You said we'd wait, so wait with VAT until 1.7, that'll make it easier for the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22595	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22596	Here you see, six percent tax on Telekom services. Why was he introduced? For the reason we have assessed that the telecom company does not invest in Croatia and extracts profits and that it is an unacceptable situation. It was introduced as a criminal provision and we said we wouldn't let him put it off. The EU pressures were huge. And when did we decide to lift those 6% again? The moment they signed to join the concession contest for the fourth network by the end of this year and when they signed everything they invested in. And yes, the government made a deal with them. The government has already charged 300m of only two Telekom companies in the name of a fourth-generation concession fee. We expect the third company to come, and only this 300 million is twice as much as it would have been if we had charged six years, and we control investment every day. Therefore, taxes are a few times and the subject with which you can be far more reasoned in the negotiations. And we did do what we wanted. We've made our income from the concession. We'll make them come true in the future, and we'll control the investment of Telekom's company.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22597	Thank you. Next replica, Drazen Djurovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22598	Thank you. Well, just a little bit about these telecoms. If there is someone who has managed to impose something so unnecessary on us, and something that we all pay so expensive and among the most expensive in Europe, then it must be the success of these teletele operators in the Republic who are successful in the chaos that it is fantastic Croatian citizens for something that is relatively small and at prices that are among the highest but certainly higher in Europe. At the beginning of your presentation, you spoke to the minister about how banks are against real estate taxes, how they are financial sectors. Obviously, it's one of those topics where this one proposal managed to unite both citizens and the financial sector because in fact they're all against that tax because everyone has a feeling less or less that it's not good for them, and citizens and large systems, so if you want to, you know, you're also taking care of those lying companies and banks. When it comes to banks, some have assured me that there is and how there is room to establish a market niche much better quality for HPB than it is today. So she can have one, so people who do that. That the HPB can find a very good market niche under current circumstances, but it is complex on a completely different basis. And what the HPB didn't take advantage of in previous years of not knowing how to agree, that's also the fact that we have post offices in every village, that we have FINE facilities in every town and that we practically have one physical infrastructure just because there's never been any idea how to use that infrastructure for something that would be a good, smart, high-quality and solid state bank or some public service of citizens. As for HBOR, a small entrepreneur from Caglin will not go to Zagreb and Osijek with a pile of paper for ten or twenty thousand kuna. He needs that money around here somewhere.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22599	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22600	I don't like to talk about Postanska Banka for a simple reason because it's a commercial bank and every debate about it isn't good for savings. I leave you to keep thinking about Postanska Banka, but always answer why the coalition government had to resuscitate the Postanska Banka in 2000, why did the coalition bank, I apologize, last government also have to resuscitate the Postanska Banka? Why do you want the policy to run the bank? That's what this government says: it won't. Politics can manage the Development Bank and we want to stick to it. The postal bank is a commercial bank and policy management is not desirable. The terms of the Post Office Bank are they better than the other commercial banks? ... Great, great. [[/The intruder doesn't understand.]] Then I'd like you to meet. I don't want to answer about it. I don't want to. The bank has expensive sources and its loans to businessmen are not very favourable to other banks. They're not very good. So let's not say it by heart. In order to be able to do so, stronger recapitalisations are needed. It's necessary. Where do we give it, from which budget? So let us be responsible for this. Let's be responsible. You're against having a market business. You want a country on the market. But my people, which country in the market when we deal with the problem of paying interest, paying interest. And where are we going to invest? With what money? What more do you take in health care and education? I'd like to ask for some seriousness, because these aren't such simple topics. But you all know them, it's not a problem. You're just spreading such a demagogy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22601	Thank you. Next replica Zlatko Tušak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22602	Thank you, Vice President. Minister, something came to me in your discussion when you said we were talking to the banks every day. You're talking to the banks and you said we wanted to change some things. You're talking to banks about property. Who's talking to the citizens? Who's asking this citizen? So the basic question of the concept of this thinking is how these banks are going to be set up, so we're going to adapt and pass these laws. The basic question is that with citizens, citizens no one asks, 350 thousand are unemployed, 40-50 thousand workers who do not receive salaries regularly, 80,000 workers who are on minimum wage. They may have acquired some kind of property, but the question is, they've been through this property and they may have borrowed credit, they've paid some interest to the banks, they've paid certain income contributions, they've paid all these taxes, they've paid all the utility fees, but ultimately, they'll have to bear that burden if you can make a deal with the banks. That's what offered me the most in your discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22603	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22604	And what are we talking about with the banks? It's no problem, Dioki, trauma, tragedy, unfortunate workers, that they have to write off claims, that the state can enter negotiations on the consolidation of Dioki if they write off their own. Then what are we talking about here? About those workers who wanted to kill themselves, who threw themselves away, who were hungry, or about their incomes? About the constructor? I've been in meetings with them all this year, gathering them all the time. For what? What, how will the constructor take over, or because the workers are without pay, which the suppliers don't charge and what the constructor can't do to a pro-functioner? And we're trying to solve what they write off, what they write off for that constructor to survive. We want to talk about Dalekvod? When they refuse to give guarantees, then we say, we'll give guarantees for the work outside, but you'll consolidate it. Yeah, what are we talking about? The redistribution of their wealth? About giving money to them or every working man who loses his salary because of their problems with companies? A banking system that refused to control whether contributions were paid. So when we say, no problem, we'll take away all your payment powers, all your powers if you don't control and make sure the workers get paid and get contributions. Yes, these are our conversations with the banks, very pleasant for their pockets. I would disagree, but obviously you know little about our work, you're not aware of what's going on, and it's always just one goal, a small man and a worker to get paid and get his job back.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22605	Thank you. And the last replica, Domagoj Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22606	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, you're not consistent, so I'm actually going to say that you're contradictory. In fact, you have to decide whether to punish and force economic growth or motivation and stimulation. It's a great example of this telecom tax. So, the tax on telecoms has been introduced, investments have been reduced, and the former HDZ government has taken a step back. So what I want and what I say many times in these nine months, ten, and that's in the 21st century, is no longer possible by forcing and banning economic growth but motivation. You mentioned, probably with a lapus, that you will not support Croatian entrepreneurs, rich or poor is less important, but how will we achieve economic growth? So, only everyone together and the employees and these entrepreneurs and the government, i.e. the public administration and banks in the large economy, can we achieve the economic growth that needs so much. Here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22607	Thank you, too. We have an answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22608	Well, you don't seem to understand, otherwise I'm a very consistent person and I'm a tax person who says it serves to stimulate someone, and it dims someone. Yes, tax is a huge asset in the government, and that is why this government is very clearly trying to implement it. In 2012, when we sat down, we found that Telekom companies only wanted to transfer their profits, just to move because the payment provision for 6% of Telekom companies, telecom operators, we estimated that we would not accept it, that we would extend the validity of that until the documents were signed, that it would come to the fourth generation because it means further investment and that in the existing concessions we would invest the funds. You don't have to consider it coercion. For us, it was coercion, tax, we had the right to do that. We can't let him get away. But as you can see, your colleagues from the Labour Party feel the other way around, that we're comfortable with them. Therefore, taxes are used for this kind of activity, and they are precisely for this kind of activity that we cannot allow any behavior. This government cannot save and try to find solutions to establish in the State budget the relationship between expenditure and income, and allow employers to behave as they wish. On the other hand, today I lost my day explaining the measures that go to the burden of citizens and for the benefit of employers. Without these employers, there is no economic development without the private sector. There's no point in repeating them again because I've repeated them so many times. Therefore, taxes and taxes and help but also ask for someone to be responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22609	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Domagoj Milosevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22610	Thank you. Well, I'll continue where the minister left off, so you're just wrong. But we probably didn't understand each other about Telekom, but it's less important now. You're wrong when you say you've unloaded the economy, and you've burdened the citizens. So I think our Croatian citizens, the vast majority of them working in that same economy, that same economy produces products and services for these same citizens, and depends on the consumption of these same citizens. So that way to look at it, I don't think it's right. But let's go back to my individual debate. So Croatia does have long-term and I think every reason for optimism, Croatia has great potential from the geostrategic position of employees, and highly educated and lower education, from tourism, agriculture and Croatian diaspora. But in the short term, given not only this year and what has been achieved but also what has happened in the past ten years before the crisis, I fear that in the short term I see no reason for this optimism and for the expenditure of 1.8%. All today, the European governments are of course concerned by the same concern, which is how to boost economic growth? I'm not going to talk here for the next ten minutes, a little less about why we're skeptical of the announced 1.8%. I already said this morning that I would like you and we all to achieve economic growth together and 5% together. But why are we skeptical? Not just because there was an interruption in 2012 of the economic deadline, recovery. I'll repeat two quarters in 2011, we've had an economic downturn in the worse tourist season than this year. This year it happened in spite of the growth expectations of 0.7%, we will achieve a decline in all economic activities. Despite the best tourist season in history, we have a decline in the second and third quarter of 2.2 and 1.5%. But I'm not gonna talk about it. I'm gonna go back to history. Ten years before the crisis, we must be all aware of Croatian citizens, Croatian entrepreneurs, the whole society, our standard has grown on loans. We all know that. Unfortunately, not on the profits of these entrepreneurs but on expensive loans that at first seemed even relatively cheap in view of the experiences of the 1990s. Now after that came the global economic crisis, the crisis came to Europe and Croatia, there was a fall in income. So we have a situation where the overindebted of one average Croatian entrepreneur is faced with a rise in tax burden. We warned at the beginning of this year that you are not doing this in the fifth year of the crisis, that this, the growth of VAT, will appear as a direct tax for Croatian entrepreneurs as well. Of course VAT growth has reduced consumption. Croatian entrepreneurs on average, but it will take ten, twenty years for the Croatian economy to become productive and export. Unfortunately, there were these fifteen, twenty years of domestic market focus in the best case of exports to a wider region. The European Union has a recession problem today. Croatia is in recession again, so we don't know how this excessive optimism that we all definitely need. So personal consumption is down. Investments are down. Foreign investments will remind me this year there are four times less than last year. And why is that? We warned you not to introduce a dividend tax. Taxes on dividends anyway you know you finance ministers at least actually pay the biggest investors on the outside in Croatia because there is a double tax contract. So we said don't increase VAT because it was seen in 2011 when the crisis tax was abolished, economic growth was achieved. I could count for a long time now. However, there are a lot of structural problems in the Croatian economy, they cannot be solved in a year. However, it is obvious that structural reforms will need to be done, investments that do not happen in one piece and the consequences. I commended the Ministry of Finance today for 870 million kuna for HBOR. I will also commend the fact that, let's say, a million dollars is foreseen for 350 says counterpart Babic, it is foreseen for a medium and small enterprise that is so important because only medium and small entrepreneurship can achieve employment growth. I will commend and seem to be about 30 million kunas if I have well remembered additional new ones for the State Office for Croatians outside Croatia. I will say this because I think that the Croatian diaspora represents a very important long-term potential and had answers in the long term to two key Croatian problems, it is demographic and economic. The Croatian diaspora when it comes, when it comes back to Croatia, does not come to Croatia with bread, but brings money, brings knowledge, experiences collected from Australia from North America. So commendation for that. But all this together just won't be enough. That's not enough. I mentioned today a proposal, which is that medium and small entrepreneurs pay VAT at the expense of the bill. It is a solution in one piece or aid for indifference. I will say further with these structural reforms that we have already mentioned today from the award system for public administration and public enterprises. This is one way since the Croatian economy without the support of public companies and investment and public administrations at all levels. It's gonna be hard to get ahead. Without addressing administrative blockades and removing barriers to investors, a foreign investor will not come to Croatia. It's not just a tax burden problem. We didn't understand each other about the telecom tax, but I actually have to mention real estate tax here. By the same logic, you said ok. We unloaded telecoms at the end of the day to invest in Croatia, and that's good. Should we introduce a tax on real estate, punish all those who may have wrongly invested from today's perspective in 2005, 2006, 2008, I don't know when, not selling apartments and paying but not small taxes in those investments, or we need to find a way to motivate the real estate market to start up the Croatian economy and that construction sector. Furthermore, I think it is very important that we did not see this in this budget, and this is anticipating significant resources not only for active employment measures but also for active employment maintenance measures. Why is there only 4.5% of the unemployed in Austria today? Because they introduced money directly into the preservation of jobs in particular to the economy, or industry. Here I could list for a long time, but there are solutions, there are people who deal with it in many countries, there are brains in Croatia, so there are a whole series of measures that can stimulate the economic growth that really matters to us all. In the end, I still have one very principled remark to make. Since the state budget is very important, what is really not clear to me since I am the first time in the Croatian Parliament why are we all sitting here all day and only the Minister of Finance or his fellow Finance Ministry defends the entire budget? It turns out that actually the Ministry of Finance is responsible for the entire budget? Why don't we be here if not all ministers all day with parliamentary deputies why don't the representatives of the ministries that I probably hope participate in making each of their state budgets because this is how it really turns out to be a continuous debate with the Ministry of Finance. We can discuss this for a really long time, but here's a proposal for the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22611	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Branko Vuksic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22612	A very short replica, and I wanted to be a minister before, but Mr. Milosevic went for it. I fully agree with Mr. Minister that there is a need to tax, and I'm replicating that there is a need to tax extra space. First of all, tens of thousands of apartments on the Croatian market and mostly in Zagreb, they have too high speculative prices. Look at the market. Try to buy an apartment. We'll go shopping tomorrow and you'll see. First of all, money is very often black, mafia. A company that does not want to sell an apartment at prices that meet all the criteria, that means that it has extra money, that means they work with money laundered and that it fully agrees with Minister Linic that such a space should be taxed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22613	Thank you. We have an answer. A fellow Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22614	Well, yeah, it's time to finally stop on a minority basis, and there are minorities in all social groups that aren't good, it's not good and it doesn't work for the benefit of society as a whole to judge the majority. I'm very upset with the fact that I came into politics from entrepreneurship and the economy that, continuously on the basis of 1%, maybe less than one social group in this case, the entrepreneurs are being judged by the majority. I'm just telling you here, without these entrepreneurs being better or worse, there's no economic growth, there's no new employment, there's no, I don't see another way. Every honor of public investment and the former government has worked on it, worked hard, and it will certainly contribute to economic growth, but it is not enough. I, the private sector, private entrepreneurs, domestics, we are party tomorrow, the day after tomorrow practically in the EU must feel invited, welcome, stimulated and if you want to be valued and rewarded and socially because they are opening new jobs. It's the only time this country's progress has ever been made.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22615	Thank you. Next debate, Zdravko Ronko. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22616	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This 2013 budget is indeed a serious political document, and in the given and fixed conditions it is very responsible and since many colleagues have spoken, and it is already too late, I will not particularly look back at the part that has been said so far. So I won't say anything about what we inherited and I won't talk about what we did. I might say something about what awaits us, which is ahead of us, and I will use that right to maybe ablimate right on the Croatian railways. So let me remind you with a few data, the Republic of Croatia has 9% bi-colloidal stripes. That's four and a half times less than the EU average. We have an electrified 36 tracks for exactly that much and we are lagging behind for the EU. The rail nets we're using are three or six times smaller than Austria, Belgium, Switzerland, Germany. Croatia's rail infrastructure investment is 44%. Central Europe between 50% and 70%, Western Europe 70% and 100%, Switzerland over 100% compared to total income. Of course there is that White Paper, the EU document on transport policy, which in 2011 says that by 2030 30% of road traffic at a distance of more than 300km must be directed towards the railway. That by 2050 most passenger traffic must be transferred to the railway and that the pay user principle must be applied, the pay polluter. So it's only from this data that we're going to have to speed up and speed up the modernisation of railways, railway infrastructure and increase the scope of use. That's why we need a permanent, long-term and secure way of funding. In the countries of Europe, there are different models and structures of this funding, so state budget, loans, own funds, funds, concessions, regional local co-financing. And for now, in the Republic of Croatia, the most important inflow from the state budget in 2011, 76.3% was from the state budget. This year also Croatian railways can be satisfied with what they are, I will get the word from the state budget but it always feels, lacks that security, continuity, long-term cash flow from that budget. Therefore, I should be able to find and secure sustainable and secure sources of income as soon as possible. One of these is certain to reroute the part of the compensation from the oil products for maintenance and development of the railway infrastructure, not that the oil-using railway is that it is also 20 liters of wages for road infrastructure development. Detimise the transport of goods along a 300 km road we can also do so with the economic practice of involving the local community in co-financing, tax heavy motor vehicles and part of the fee paid for registration and for protecting the environment can also be directed towards maintaining the railway. I must say that here in 2012 I welcome the new policy of the Croatian Railways, the policy of rebuilding and building the railways and the engagement of the local community against the current policy of closing down the club. And finally let me say that with two... Požeška Golden Valley in 2010 ran out of Pleternica-Caglin-Nasice railway, that this railway that in the Homeland War for the whole Slavonia life meant, and last year at a speed of 20 km/h we should have lost the Požega-Velika railroad. The fact is that in 2012 although it is time to express the crisis that has begun the reconstruction of these railways and that in 2013 these railways will be completely restored to the benefit of many students from Požega and Požetina who use Josip Juraj Strossmayer University, i.e. those who study there, many patients who use clinics from Zagreb to Osijek, business people etc. And of course, by restoring the railroad and the economy will get a stronger wind in the back, so only on that tree, the stone, the sand that is exported from Papuk will be transported by rail, not that hundreds and hundreds of trucks pollute the environment daily, endanger traffic and destroy the undesigned roads. Here's what I needed to say, so there's one task ahead of us, and that's that as soon as possible and in that direction we focus. I have to say that this kind of solution was built into the Law on Railways in 2003 but that there he was somewhere hitched off, he didn't live, and that it would be good if he were revitalised as soon as possible and that we could move on in that direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22617	Thank you, too. We have two replicas on your exhibit. The first one was Drazen Djurovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22618	Thank you. Well, you well, Agent Ronko, you mentioned it as regards the reconstruction of the railway in Posjestina, it is a truly happy circumstance that the partners with positive intentions on both sides have found themselves and no matter who found themselves it is really good to go into the restoration of these tracks which are one and the other vessels of the golden valley house. Now I'd ask you something that you think, given that you're from the financial sector, so you don't know anything but your opinion or your attitude towards something, so they don't have absolute knowledge because there's no one, no ministers, no parliamentary representatives. It's already your opinion on how it can be done when there's no financial resources to capitalize banks, in which way they manage to find certain financial resources... a country for a strange capitalisation of a bank called the Center of the Bank. And even strategic partners find that this bank is being capitalised and saved and put into operation even though it was heavily private, while for example there is this one HPB that is one larger bank, but for it simply there is no money or partner or political will to maybe try it with a significant national bank to do something similar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22619	Thank you. A fellow Ronko, a reply to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22620	I can answer that. You've missed the point. I didn't talk about the Partner Bank, but what's in the paper I read the same as you, let whoever's dealing with them come forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22621	Thank you. Next replica, Mladen Novak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22622	Thank you very much. Since the railways were mentioned, I would like to thank you very much for speaking positively of the railways on this side of the ruling coalition. You cite examples of how railways are financed outside, purely possibly for those who are not directed, there are no railways in the world that are not co-financed by the state and not only meet that form of their own benefit that the purpose of transport is, but also, environmental and energy, these railways are encouraged in all countries in the world where they exist. There's only so much to thank you for coming from your side, from these circles comes something that's positive in HH. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22623	Thank you. We're moving on individually. Ante Babic, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22624	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The budget was retained by the main traits that were passed over the past year, with some slight drop in state spending. This year's expenditures are higher than ever, although it has been reported throughout the year that expenditures will decrease rapidly. They'll spend 10 billion more than we have. For this year, expenditure is proposed at the level of $124.5 billion. The proposal for this budget retains the acquired consumption structure, except for subsidies in agriculture where subsidies are reduced by 554.1 million kuna. This year, the government expected the economy to take off through public companies, but this did not happen, but the state-owned companies increased their costs through new employment and essentially reduced revenues and halted investments. Public companies were supposed to be a development generator. What exactly is waiting for us with this budget in 2013? At the beginning of next year, they collect books, milk, bread and medicines almost 5% and collect cigarettes. What about salaries and public sector employees' expenses? They decrease by 2.3 billion compared to the amount determined by the rebalance. You said these costs would be lower, and they're not and they're back to the old plan. In the past few weeks, the government has also talked about major reforms in the social, health and pension system. This is not seen from this 2013 budget. I guess again in the next period. What I'm most interested in right now is cutting school funds. In particular, tens of school facilities and 15 to 20000 square meters of new space were built in Split-Dalmatia County, and this budget reduces the means of education and sport by 230 million kuna. Does that mean that the pedagogical standard that in our county this year fell more than 30% in the following year will continue to fall. The proposal for this state budget so far is the clearest confirmation of government failure. This budget includes a larger deficit, further borrowing, increased expenditures, which says that we have lost our year off. Citizens should rightly ask what they will remember in 2012, the first year of the government's term. It will be remembered by tax havens, new competition-free employment, coalition conflicts, the introduction of fear and deepening depression, which is simply not good for citizens, nor for potential investors. And during the day I told you about actually growing everything that shouldn't and falling what shouldn't, that I'm not doing it again right now. The government has missed the opportunity it was given to seriously reform the public sector at the beginning of the mandate, cutting salaries perhaps in the public sector. By making it difficult with reforms and unpopular measures, you've also caused trade unions. You did not create a more favourable investment climate for entrepreneurs, although it was expected. Instead of discharging them from their obligations and giving them, and introducing sound tax discipline, they increased them even more. In 2013, incomes from citizens' pockets will be set up, and therefore burdens will rise. The real standard of citizens has dropped 5%. The seasons will surely fall by 2.3% higher, possibly even more. You're stressing public investment, which means you're going to grow a deficit. How are you going to make up for that deficit? That's what you were talking about - by selling the Croatian Post Office, Croatian Insurance and by giving the highway to a concession. Then GDP won't grow, it'll fall. Unfortunately, it can be concluded that Croatia is waiting for another poor and miserable unspectorous year for both potential investors and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22625	Thank you. Next up for the Vesna Railway debate. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22626	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, respected ministers with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. So here, in these late hours to discuss the budget, it's really not easy, and we're not even ready to go on the page anymore. But what's there is. Indeed, each budget was determined by individual predetermined decisions by the former authorities that made the former budgets both in the local and state authorities. So putting together every budget is an art impossible. And every budget just so that today we have 50 billion kunas more secure that there would be dissatisfied in this assembly, because there would never be enough money for everything we need. By taking over the coalition government and adopting the 2012 budget as well as the rebalancing we adopted, the emphasis was placed on reducing deficits below 10 billion kuna. And that's the definition that we're holding on to, and that's the definition that we're looking for in this budget as well. In order to maintain public finances in 2013 with projections in 2014 and 15 with fiscal consolidation, it is necessary to launch economic growth certainly without which we cannot expect any shifts, and all through the promotion of investment and growth, of course, in production. But it is necessary, of course, to encourage investment in the public sector, as the minister said in a public-private partnership, in energy, in environmental, transport protection, as well as in small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. The real restructuring of all major systems of electricity, roads, highways, water, forests and railways is necessary to achieve all of these. We've heard that a lot of times today, it's been mentioned, and of course they've tried to do it before today we wouldn't be in this situation and certainly to feel the shift. What's important is still for this budget, although we haven't heard enough, but it's also important that it's socially safe to worry about the most vulnerable and we're showing this by increasing revenue by 0.3 billion kuna, which is an increase in pensioners. I'll skip revenue and expenses here, of course, which we have in the budget, by the state. But I'm going to look back a little bit on the middle, little entrepreneurship and craftsmanship that we've been set up for and where the minister said he saw optimism about growth in the economy of 1.8% and we're confident we're going to do it. Positive trends in economic movements, however, are present. After the decline of the crafts in Croatia at an annual level of 2300 turns, more were closed, of course, than the new one was opened. But in 2012, by mid-October, the number of closed and open crafts almost leveled, and the number of employees increased by about 6300. Today, about 85 thousand people work in crafts, and over 250 thousand craftsmen and their employees. Today, it happens similarly in small and medium-sized enterprises. In the first 9 months of 2012 compared to 2011, sales revenues increased by almost 35 billion kuna, a percentage point of 19% and revenue growth increased by 9.3%. The value of retail investments in the third quarter of the long-term assets amounted to 430 million and the realisation of investments of 13.742 billion kuna. At the same time, the small economy has increased and increased the number of employees from 557 thousand to 569 thousand, which is plus 12,000 more employees compared to 2011. The craftsmanship and a small economy account for over 99% of the Croatian economy, over 50% of the social gross product, over 40% of the exports, and 60% of these exports are exports to the EU. Two-thirds of total employees are in the small and medium crafts sector. How this government supports small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and craftsmanship other than grants through HBOR and HAMAG INVESTA we have enabled more favourable financing of the same. Through HAMAG INVESTA, we doubled the guarantee fund from one billion to two billion kuna. The positive trend I cited was to increase the social gross product proposal in 2013 at the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts by 80%. So, from 420 million kuna to 712 with HAMAG INVEST. The biggest increase concerns the participation of projects that will subsidise EU funds into funds. So these really are the indicators that give us the optimism and this growth that I've cited, which we hope to achieve based on all of these indicators that I've listed now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22627	Thank you. Branko Hrg. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Damir Rilje. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22628	I don't know. I want to tell you good evening or good morning, here's the Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister, Deputy. Here's my turn. I've got a few thoughts about this budget and I'm going to try to present them now, although it's too late and I think a lot of things have been said, but I don't think I'm going to burden you with large numbers and that the budget is talking to myself. It is more complex than working in local self-government units, but it's a normal thing to lean on and actually have to come out of it. I kind of looked back and tried to connect that story. So, I'd like to have a few opinions about that. Here I'm going to use the data from the budget itself and I don't want to convince these data that we've actually heard that we can each read, the one who wanted to actually review the entire budget. The budget in ideal conditions cannot be satisfied, the strategies identified by the budget do not meet the requirements of the short-term system, and in particular when the budget is located on fragile financial foundations. So, more here, I want to focus on its development strategy as far as possible in terms of transferred financial deficits and trying to take measures to consolidate and develop within the appropriate timeframe, taking into account, of course, that we are talking about a plan that depends on economic developments but also on the ability of the possible in relation to the situation found. The budget is like an active financial document, in fact, a development strategy that must be aimed evenly at developing exactly the structural activity, but also areas that will enable funding and other functions that the general government has towards citizens and communities such as education, science, sport, social welfare, pension and health systems, NGOs and all other segments of society that actually require, as my predecessors have said, major structural reforms. The inevitable fact is that the size of public debt service costs in the Republic of Croatia is the one causing an increased burden on the expenditure of the state budget. The shipbuilding programme, my colleague, did not understand you, which has been removed, the fees for strategic oil reserves, HANDA and participation in the EU Budget, is what is expected for us in 2013 in addition to the problem of the ongoing liquidity of the payment of claims. Budgetary revenues are projected at 113, as we heard 6 billion kuna, expenditure at 124.5. When adding a transferred deficit and an increase in the shortfall of one billion kuna to 10.9 billion kuna in the state budget. Given that the state budget must create frameworks for the development of the economy, which is difficult to talk about within the frameworks of the delegated deficit as well as over-indebted general government and budgetary beneficiaries, the efficiency of the economy will be conditioned only by economic growth, i.e. by structural investment and by private economic investment. At the level of the general state as I see it in the report, a deficit of 3.8% of GDP is expected in 2013, of which 3% refers to interest 0.8% on the primary deficit. Structural investment in the public sector through all structural companies is in fact necessary, especially in the field of energy, transport, environmental protection, as well as incentivising private investment, particularly in the context of public-private partnerships. Today, problems are mentioned in various strategic companies, education, health care, railways, agriculture, here I will mention Croatian mail. Another company that will have one big hole that will soon appear, a 4 month post, will be shortfall in debt on the 54m-euro Zagreb Stock Exchange. Already in the only document that was in this House, so when we discussed the find of the State Audit on the acquisition in Croatia, the post office actually saw a hole in 2008 and 2009 somewhere around 600 to 700 million kuna, 10600 employees, undivided investments, and I have heard lately that they have also been seen to actually trade HT and HP. It would be nice to know what is going on with this, but they will not come, I expect the Law of Post will come to the agenda of this Croatian Parliament. On the other hand, it is an interesting story about HACOM which has ensured that we have 66% of the postal services market while in Western Europe there is 90% of the markets of course of national operators depending on the structure of ownership. The ownership structure does not have to be purely state-owned but the fact is that 90% of the Croatian state invested a lot of money in this system, and this system was built by that other system called Telecommunications and which is now in the T-COM system. So, of course, increased investment is expected by a private initiative but also greater use before the pre-accession ones as he used it. We as Croatia are very bad, and now also structural funds in the new period of six years for which we must have as many completed projects as possible. This is the possibility and strategy that rests on completed projects that were not actually few and for which systematic programme support and project preparation could be set aside from funds, which would mean a major shift in the EU's use of funds so far. On the other hand, a public-private partnership should be freed from too long waiting for documentation, too long administrative procedures necessary for private investment. Unfortunately, this has been the case so far, but the amendment of the law has made it possible and we have recently brought it forward faster and later in this area as well. As part of the creation of positive frameworks for a strong investment climate, the budget is set up as possible in such a way that all levels of state can be included in the selection of unique projects for which the possible profit and efficiency of business must be determined by emergency procedures. In addition, each budget in particular lies on the assessment of new investments in which new values are created, new employment or jobs, and increased income, which would be assumptions for economic growth. I wanted to say this is very important that apart from structural state investment projects, priorities and projects that have the advantage of obtaining state importance in relation to the acceptability of the investment programme and estimated profits are chosen precisely in local self-government units. there are investments and happens as we talk about private investment and public-private partnerships. The example works from an area of investment of state importance in the area of units of local self-government, stating examples of the interest of private partners can be structural investment in the bridge-land-island, for example. This is what I have in my unit's field especially when it is known that there are investors who want to invest on the island and earn and build economic content, hire and develop economic activity. They already exist today, three, four years ago, and this was a tourist resort, a cruise port or ports of nautical tourism and all other investments that I am not going to mention now, which interest already exists. This type of investment in units of local self-government depends largely on the development of other units of local self-government dealing with some other activity that can ultimately be distributed at the site of the investment, e.g. The agricultural and processing industry can easily be distributed in the field of tourism industry or port of nautical tourism or homports for cruisers or similar tourist content. In this way, the opportunities for economic work and employment and the less needs of local budgets to rely on the state budget are increased in a collateral way. Finally, we must continue to pass additional laws that provide for a turn-off in the process or investment procedures that will allow the reduction of the deadlines that were in force until yesterday, waiting for 2 to 3 years not only to be possible but to safely invest in the activity of a specific spatially planned investment document. Endless waiting for the inclusion of potential investment in various higher-order plans or endless enrollment in the catastries and land-arranged offices must finally cease. All of what I'm saying has its own concrete example but I believe others have it. But I say that increasing employment and spending will be exactly proportionate to making investments in the economy, and in a private initiative. The budget projections foreseen for 2014 and 2015 are just showing the intention of the budget to target all available funds in the development of the economy since without it, the EU Structural Funds will not be easily available. Therefore, the purpose of this budget and the projections for 2014 and 2015 is to create economic growth with the obligation to pay the debts incurred from earlier years. It is the only possible way of trying to secure sources of budgetary revenue. So I'm saying that this budget has been developed and I'm supporting it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22629	Thank you. We have one replica of Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22630	Here's a very short replica to Mr. Rila. I wish I didn't know Mr. Rilje had a chance that since you're from Trogir I don't know and I didn't notice any means for those poor bridges. There's this bridge that's starting to build Sanader, it's been opened and shut down a few times, nothing happened, so the only bridge there between Trogir and Ciovo that bridge that I think has no more conditions to traffic over it. Is there any funds in the budget for this bridge is that if you and I are not able to bring the amendment together if you have not already submitted that the current bridge that is completely unusable between Trogir and Ciovo is dangerous for travellers and tourists and for all to be at least fairly reconstructed when there is none of that famous sander bridge between Trogir and the mainland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22631	Thank you. We have a response to the replica of Damir Rilje. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22632	My dear colleague, I think I don't know how long you've been in the Parliament, but it's about like this. He introduced me first to the fact that the Ciovo mainland bridge was actually prepared for EU structural funds 3.4 years ago. His price, he had his history, he was first high and then he entered himself and became more expensive so they were access roads so now his location permits are somewhere near the end. Now it costs about 260 million kunas and I expect this budget to have it, but I expect it to be helped. I even offered the ministry a way that local self-government units can finance themselves. So in a way that one good, generally well invested in another general good that is necessary for the development of the economy. What else would that be good for? So let's say the port of nautical tourism. We've got it. Local self-government units are interested, especially this one on the island of Ciovo, and that's your story about the bridge itself. I know her from beginning to end, you may not know this detail but he's not new, he's old, but trust me when he's tried and when he's solved, the structural funds are something else. You asked me, that's why I'm facing you. I hope you don't mind, I haven't watched you in a while, I've been turning my back all along, so I like to watch you for a little while. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22633	Thank you, too. Further to the debate, Dragan Montenegrin. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Gold Comadina. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Dinko Bosnjak. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Big Kajtazi. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22634	Dear Vice President, dear ministers, assistants, colleagues and colleagues. The Roma national minority in the Republic of Croatia is particularly in a difficult position in the Republic of Croatia as well as in other countries where they live in significant numbers. After a long time, the international community recognized and began to act more intensely to improve the situation and perspective of Roma. The initiative also actively included the Republic of Croatia as one of the founding countries in the adoption of a document that initiated the declaration of the decade for Roma inclusion in 2005-2015. The Republic of Croatia has also adopted a special Action Plan on the implementation of activities, i.e. the achievement of the objectives set within it a decade for Roma inclusion. As well as other important documents, the Republic of Croatia has also adopted the National Programme for Roma. In the process of joining the European Union, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has prepared and will soon adopt a National Strategy until 2020 to replace the national programme. Each of these documents was written with the aim of changing the current position of members of the Roma national minority through its realisation and enabling equal positions and opportunities for development as well as all other citizens, i.e. ethnic communities. These documents also provide for a number of comprehensive measures aimed at the situation of the Roma, but almost all of them depend on the financial resources that need to be allocated for their implementation, and this is where the problem begins because we have identified ourselves through those documents to e.g. By 2020, we ensure that all Roma children attend regular schooling in Croatia, but in the budget we did not foresee enough funds to do so. As a state and society, we have defined to ensure that the Roma national minority also has highly educated members who will then assist the Roma community in its development, but there is currently not enough money for less than 30 students who are eligible for a scholarship on this basis. Scholarships, or help for high school or elementary school students to obtain textbooks or others not to speak. We have a great aim for all Roma children to attend school within 7 years, and neither in the 2013 budget nor in the projections for 2014 and 2015 did we foresee nearly enough funds for these intentions. In the preparation of the budget for the coming year, I have come to all relevant ministries and asked that each ministry, in accordance with its own commitments based on the basic documents for Roma adopted by the Republic of Croatia, provide certain resources for specific projects and programmes intended for Roma. But I will exempt one ministry and one government office, and we still have the practice that funds intended for specific Roma programmes are not clearly and specifically indicated. This practice creates a big problem for us because we get around the ground in a number of environments feedback that a significant part of the funds intended for specific Roma problems either do not arrive or are not being used. For example. Support for employment of non-Roma national minorities. Of course, no one is against each of the large number of unemployed citizens of the Republic of Croatia being helped, but we are simply warning that as a state we have determined to allocate certain funds to the Roma and everything the Roma expect, and as their representative, that relatively small funds are real and spent precisely to solve specific Roma problems. In a difficult economic situation where our country finds a lot of hard-lived people, it can easily happen that dissatisfied people turn to others, in this case to the Roma, because through the media they are given information that from 30 to 60 million kunas that the Roma are allegedly getting. For years, citizens without a job or with small pensions are under the impression that Roma are given more than they are and there is a problem as we have recently witnessed in Međimurje County when little Roma children are on the first day of school, the days each of us remembers his whole life faced with fits of anger and hatred born out of ignorance and poverty by those who have apologized to them to sit in school benches on the first day. All of us in the Roma community would be happy if tens of millions of kunas mentioned in various reports really spent on improving the lives of Roma. Many Roma, when they hear how much the state spends on Roma programmes, wonder where these funds are spent, and currently neither I nor anyone else can give a clear and comprehensive answer to that question. And then we have a creation on one side of unrealistic expectations, and on the other side of frustration and dissatisfaction. The funds for the Roma are in most ministries not particularly run, so it is not possible to monitor their spending. It's a bad practice that continues with this draft budget. In order to achieve this transparent and high-quality action plan for a decade for Roma inclusion and the National Strategy for Roma by 2012 it is also necessary to achieve this: that each ministry and other beneficiary of the budget, which in its field of action, has some of the objectives and needs for Roma, plans according to the possibilities of specific funds for Roma. That funds for Roma specific needs are planned in a way that would include the possibility for Roma representatives to propose priorities when it comes to the numerous needs of the Roma community in Croatia. This means that the planned funds should be particularly shown in the budget in order to make it clear to everyone what means they are. It is necessary to ensure a quality system of monitoring the spending of these funds and to ensure that they are spent transparently and meaningfully. I ask the Government as a whole and the competent ministries to consider these proposals and remarks and to take advantage of this budget-making process, to correct the inherited bad and non-transparent situation when it comes to planning and using funds to finance the specific Roma needs that we have committed to as a state and society, including within a decade to include Roma and by bringing the National Programme or National Strategy for Roma. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22635	Thank you, too. We have a replica on your exhibit. Maria Lugaric, here are your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22636	Dear colleague Kajtazi, I fully agree with you that it is particularly important to invest in the education of those vulnerable groups, especially Roma education. It's twice as important because of a lot of things. You and I, as deputy minister, and then you as a representative of the Roma national minority, have talked about it for the past ten months a lot. Some of the figures you pointed out in your presentation are simply not correct. Of the many things in the budget and the majority that decrease, one of the few that increase is precisely funds for Roma education. Implementation of the National Roma Programme... From 2 million 600,000 kuna to 3 million 300 thousand kuna, preschool for Roma from a million and 600 thousand kuna to 2 million kuna, scholarships for Roma students who have never existed in the budget as an item before. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And yes, indeed, the most important job is to work on the transparency of spending the funds of associations which very often, unfortunately some of them, and we know well both you and I, who are not purposely spending the funds and funds that are public from the state budget intended for the breeders, for the practical equipment, for accounting services for their associations, for the purchase of suits, goods and similar things. And that's what we really have in common, what we need to work on, that these funds that we have in the budget that we have and now they're increased really go to the purposes for which they're intended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22637	Thank you. We have a response to the replica of Veliko Kajtazi. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22638	Dear colleagues, right in your 10 months we've only been once, and no more times that's one. And secondly, in that one we were trying to solve the most that we could do. But obviously we couldn't, and otherwise, as far as we're concerned, we're only looking at the item in the best way when it comes to the Roma budget, given that back a few years, everyone's been talking about 60 and 30 million kunas that are given for Roma costs. When we look at those funds, we don't know how far they get and get to the real base, it means the Roma themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22639	Thank you, too. This is what we're done with reporting for discussion. On behalf of the promoter, Minister Slavko Linic. Here are the ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22640	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I thank you for a very high-quality and correct debate. Personally, I have to say, I don't feel tired, nor have I had a hard time with you. However, I appreciate that in many ways we understand and that in some ways we are aware of how important it is to discuss this document and that through this debate today we have tried to give our own insight into how we see the situation in the economy and how important the problems of citizens and the use of citizens and the use of funds to address these problems are. Thank you very much for your pleasant discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22641	I thank the ministers. We've exhausted the reported, I mean not physically, but a report. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22642	We now move to a vote on the State Budget for 2013 and projections for 2014 and 2015, proposals for the financial plans of extra budget users for 2013 and 2015: (a) Croatian Waters Fund (a) Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency Fund (a) Croatian Roads (a) State Deposit Insurance Agency and Bank Rehabilitation Agency (a) State Property Management Agency, Proposal for the State Budget and Financial Plans for 2013 and 2015, and projections for 2014 and 2015 – consolidated; Explanation of the State Budget and financial plans of non-profit users for 2013 and projections for 2014 and 2015 – consolidated. The debate on the text of the proposal is over. The government of the Republic of Croatia submitted an amendment after the deadline set for the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am giving the Rules of Procedure the motion to discuss and decide on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please make a statement. You can't hear it. We're gonna make it a little louder. Please state who's in favor of discussing the government's amendments? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the vote is 81 for and 32 abstentions that we have accepted the proposal to discuss and decide on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would like the representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Mr. Slavko Linic, to explain the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22643	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. We have two amendments, one on the state budget and the other on the Croatian Waters budget. I will explain very briefly the amendments made by the Government to the State Budget 2013 proposal. The government of the Republic of Croatia proposes an increase in funds under the item Croatian Mine Action Centre of €30 million in order to maintain the level of last year's spending of demining funds. We propose an increase in the item of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning and on the name of the transfer of funds to employees of local self-government units and under the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction of 62 million kunas. We also propose an increase in the position of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, and on the basis of the commitment of public-private partnership projects in Varazdinska and Koprivnica-Kristevnica County 23 million kuna. At the same time, we propose a reduction in the expenditure most on the Ministry of Finance 48 million kuna and on the items of expenditure on payment and re-deprived property, the Ministry of Regional Development and European Union funds 5 million, the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning has redistributed to reduce its items from 36 million kuna and the Ministry of Health reduces some projects of 26 million kuna. In addition to these reductions and the increase in budget users, some internal redistributions have been carried out so that in the State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia, we have 800 thousand redistributions within the office itself, and at the point of the Ministry of Science, Education 7 million and 721 thousand kunas in redistribution between individual projects the minister estimated necessary to implement. So much for this part. You have all the details in the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22644	Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a debate. Only representatives of clubs in the Croatian Parliament can participate in the debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, respected representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22645	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. These amendments by the Government show simply the character of this budget, that the elements of the pre-defined legislation were not provided in the state budget regardless of the warning during the 2013 Budget Proposal debate. First of all, I think of the funds that need to be provided to local self-government units because of the greater efficiency, the better execution of certain works, the issuing of construction permits was transferred to local self-government units and someone simply made themselves smart and thought that in 2013 local self-government units for those employees who were transferred to these local self-government units should not be provided with funds. Then when the amendment came on behalf of the HDZ Club, then someone in the government saw that the units of local self-government had to be provided with 62 million kunas because simply these people had to get paid. However, colleagues and colleagues, I am asking all of you here together whether we will also provide funds for preschool education for which no funds are provided in 2013 with redistributions or budget rebalancing in the same way. Also, at times when Croatia is polluted with mines as much as it is someone to suggest in the budget that these funds are reduced by 10% is simply ridiculous, but ultimately, someone has seen it as a mistake and it goes to correct it. However, it is very interesting from which the position is being removed from the funds. So it is proposed that in the Ministry of Finance, the funds are reduced material expenditure, which is like this at the principle level, but it is a very interesting fee for the disbursement of the assets paid according to the court decisions of 36 million kuna. The funds which were not on edge in 2012 but simply could not meet all the obligations resulting from this. And something very interesting, which is the Ministry of Health, which is why the Ministry of Finance itself said is in trouble, that it has strong unsettled obligations, and ultimately, in the 2013 budget, some funding has been provided to the Ministry of Health, but 26 million kuna has been reduced. So these amendments by the government simply show all the bad things of this budget as proposed. The government has tried to patch up those holes that need to be patched up because it would simply appear in the 2nd month that units of local self-government cannot exist with the means to issue building permits as foreseen. And also at the Croatian Mine Action Centre a square meter of demining came to 3 kuna and something else. Today, in every city, mayors pay more expensive square meter cutting of Drava than is a square meter of demining, and there are additional funds that unfortunately won't help anything. So another bad solution in another bad budget, we sincerely expected that the government would make certain changes through all the discussions that were in this House and with 3.4 amendments generally change the appearance of this budget, but unfortunately this did not happen and these amendments do not offer anything new. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22646	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22647	Mr. President, Mr. Minister. Here is a bit strange that after the budget was explained a few days ago in the Croatian Parliament, we have a situation again that the Government is proposing amendments to its own draft budget, to reject how much we see all amendments to opposition parties, and given that we can partly be satisfied with this part of the amendment relating to the transfer of funds to local and regional self-government units, which we have warned about for two years now. And practically since the move of the Office of State Administration to the Regional Self-Government, someone has only just seen it, probably rejected the opposition party's amendment and put it as an amendment to the government. The second thing, we are not satisfied that, as a HDSSB club, additional funding from the EU Ministry of Regional Development and Funds is being reduced, because above all, the ministry should have far, far more resources. In particular, there should have been a position for, a position and a fund aimed at units of local self-government that do not currently have thanks to the so-called. decentralisation, they have no fiscal capacity to be able to participate and work projects towards EU funds at all. There is also interesting to reduce funds for the health ministry by 26 million kuna. And that probably decrease applies to Mr. Minister's promise that, among other things, those cities that have been abolished will probably not be fulfilled this year either. I mean Giakovo, Sinj, Makarska, Imotski. And I'll never forget Supetar at Bratch. So, obviously a promise of crazy joy or we'll have decentralisation again in a way to the Kukuriku coalition that we'll transfer that possibility to local self-government units under cover of so-called. decentralisation. And what I particularly wish to warn you about in this amendment to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This is an increase in funding from the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports for commitment to public private partnership projects in Varazdinska and Koprivnica-Kristevnica County. So, obviously she talks about the success of public private partnership with this amendment falls into the water, because if it is such a good project both in Koprivnica and in Varazdin, then the state budget requires an additional 23 million kuna to meet the public private partnership obligations. This is enough to say that public private partnerships are obviously not a good project in this way and that if there is still pressure within the coalition, the state budget will suffer and have to be provided in the coming years to satisfy both party and individual ambitions of those who have entered the projects of the public private partnership. So, in part, we can support the government's amendment, although it's strange that the government is proposing an amendment to its own budget solely for the reasons of these 62 million kunas and these, is that 30000 or 30 million since this point is also what Mr. Minister might explain in this text. It turns out this way that 30,000 is extremely little for demining in the territory of all Croatia, especially in Slavonia and Baranja.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22648	Thank you, Your Honor. We have exhausted a list of registered clubs to discuss the amendment, a proposal for an amendment of the Republic of Croatia. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please state who's in favor of the amendment? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the 112 votes in favour, 4 against and 7 abstentions have been accepted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and it becomes an integral part of the State Budget 2013 proposal. The honourable representatives of the bench are divided into a review of the amendments. I ask the applicant's representative to make a statement on the amendments submitted. Let's get this straight. First it's the Ministry of Finance. Dear Minister of Finance Mr. Slavko Linic. Can we get started? Amendment number one, MP Shimo Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22649	The government does not accept the proposed amendment, and for reasons, because the Law on the implementation of the state budget is very clearly laid down criteria for the granting of funds to assist the municipalities, cities and municipalities and under that criterion, it is impossible to accept the amendment on aid to the Municipality of Gornji Budičci.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22650	Appreciation of the applicant for the amendment, honourable representative Shimo Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22651	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The Municipality of Gornji Bogicevci is freed by the action "Blash" and the municipality of special state care. All these years they had support from the State budget for 2012 at the height of 542 thousand 838 thousand kuna and a reduction of 306 thousand 053 thousand kuna. I believe that this municipality is still in need of financial support from the central ones, so I am asking for a vote from the Croatian budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22652	Thank you very much. I would like to make it clear who is in favour of the amendment of MP Sima Djurdjevic, whom the government does not accept. Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 2nd same representative of the respected Sima Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22653	The Government does not accept the proposed amendment for the reasons that the criteria laid down in the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget cannot be provided with the resources. Just a note, when we talk about the Municipality of Occupied that the bill provides for the funds that have been approved and that the Government in that part cannot accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22654	I would like to ask the proposer of Honorable Representative Simu Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22655	The amendment as well as the Municipality of Gornji Bogicevci municipality is one of the 4 municipalities that are freed by the maestral action "Blesk" I believe that the Municipality of Okučani needs support from the state budget. We come to the anniversary of "Bliss" in Okucane, we walk, but I think we need to do something for that municipality where unemployment is great, where the grouse of refugees from the Banja Luka region and Banja Luka and they've been participating with a million 310, 940 kuna so now the support would be one million 773 thousand 292 kuna. I don't think that this difference from 237 should be a problem for the budget in order for this area to get those for them, the large 237 thousand kuna, and for the state budget, I think that would be insignificant. And take off those counties that are more developed, which stands here in my proposal. So I ask you colleagues and colleagues to vote on this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22656	I ask the honourable deputies to plead on the amendment of MP Sima Djurdjevic, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 3rd of the same representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22657	Once again, the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not share money by its feelings. Parts of the formulae set out in the Budget Implementation Act. The government will examine these formulas in the course of 2013, and these formulas are unfortunately as shown in the figures in the budget. Therefore, it is not a question of whether the government wants, whether the government does not want, whether 200 thousand means something and does not mean anything, but remains a question of whether anyone has authority beyond what this Parliament has determined to share in some strange justice. Thus, once again and for the third time, the Law on Budget Implementation makes it very clear how aid is being shared. And the assistance you have provided for in the 2013 budget was made on the basis of these regulations. In addition, as regards the Municipality of Stara Gradiška, it is not possible to provide funding for 2013 for the reasons that the aid provided through the return of income tax from the State budget in this year amounts to 544 thousand, which means it is already 544, and otherwise it should be ensured by the criteria 498. So it's already been given more than by the criteria that it is. And that's why Stara Gradiška doesn't even have a swear to help in 2013. Therefore, the government will propose to amend the criteria and you will discuss it, but the government is not the one dealing with proposals without formula.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22658	And the explanation of the proponent of the respected representative Sima Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22659	I thank Mr. Minister for his lesson, but I know something else. Municipality of Dragalić 0, Municipality of Stara Gradiška 0, Municipality of Okucani reduction, Municipality of Stara Gradiška reduction, Brod-Posavia County reduction by 50%, and the most developed counties in Croatia by what criteria do they enter the censorship to get support for the budget of their counties? I don't think that's right. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22660	Please state the amendment of the respected representative Sima Djurdjevic, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Let's go to Amendment No. 4. The interior ministry, the amendment of respected representative Ante Babic. Dear Minister of Finance Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22661	The government doesn't accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22662	Please show the promoter the esteemed representative Ante Babic. Please, let's hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22663	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary has not given an explanation, so I ask him first for an explanation that I may answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22664	Okay. We are waiting for an explanation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22665	The construction of the Imotsko Police Station is envisaged by the Schengen Fund, and the co-financing funds are secured in the Ministry of the Interior 2013 Financial Plan on Project K260056-Building, buying and maintenance of the building, on the contact 4212-business facilities. The funds are provided for activities of K553074 capacity building in the Schengen border system at 451 additional investment on construction facilities of 4 million kuna. They are precisely established for projects and documentation for border facilities and cannot be reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22666	An indication of the proponents of the respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22667	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, of course I'm not satisfied with Mr. Secretary's response. I don't know if it's Mr. Minister's position or whether it's your personal or if it's the government's view was the usual practice that the government actually took a stand on the opposition amendments that we couldn't see on the government's pages. But this amendment, which I have submitted, is related to the Imotskoe Police Station, is one real amendment because it is very well known by the Minister of Interior Mr. Ranko Ostojić, and it is actually a police station where both the basic police and the border police are united and the offices for citizens and offices for detention at approximately 100 square meters. Croatia's entry into the EU in 6 months will be an even greater burden and problem for both citizens and employees of the Imotski Police Station. This modest means I was looking for I think they could be provided, and if I don't believe anything, they'll have to do it with rebalancing due to EU accession. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22668	Thank you, too. You're not asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22669	Yes, I'm asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22670	I would like to make a statement about the amendment of the respected representative Ante Babic, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. I must say immediately that all the views on the amendments are the views of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Amendment number 5 of the HDZ counseling club, Ministry of Defence. He's gone. Prime Minister of Finance Slavko Linic again.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22671	The government doesn't accept the amendment. The Office for finding and marking and maintaining the graves of victims of communist crimes after World War II was founded on the basis of the provisions of the Law on the finding, marking and maintenance of the graves of victims of communist crimes after World War II. The Statute of the Office was adopted on 14 July 2011. In accordance with Article 20.zakon, special assistance in the work of the office shall be provided by the Ministry of Defence and the resources for the work of the Office in 2011 according to the instructions of the Ministry of Finance and by the decision to redistribute the funds planned in the national budget for 2011 are planned in the division 046 of the Ministry of Family, Defence and Intergenerational Solidarity. The abolition of division 046 and the establishment of the Ministry of Defence of Offices was planned in the financial plan for 2012 and in the financial plan of the Ministry of Defence for 2013 and the projections for 2014 and 2015 in special activities A522023 research, editing and maintenance of military cemetery, cemetery of victims of the 2nd World War and postwar period. Since the Office is an independent legal person who is financed under Article 12.zakon by means of a state budget, it is entered in the register of beneficiaries of the state budget and has a gyro budget for the execution of payments. According to written requests from the Office for the Payment of Funds, the Ministry of Defence approves the transfer of funds to the office.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22672	Did you finish your honorary minister? Appreciation of the representative of the proposal of the HDZ Club, the respected representative Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22673	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is regrettable that this amendment has not been brought by the defence minister. Mr. Minister, no additional funds have been requested with this amendment. It is that the Office for the Finding, Marking and Maintaining of Graves of Communist Crime Victims is required to obtain the status provided for in the law. The law provides for the independence of the office with all the powers which are practically derrogated through this amendment. And you show in this way first that you do not respect existing laws in the Republic of Croatia and secondly that the aim is to shut down the Office for the Finding of Victims of Communist Crimes and this process definitely stops for all time. That is the real aim of refusing to accept this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22674	Are you asking for a vote? No, I don't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22675	I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22676	So please let him plead. Please state who is for the amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club that the government does not accept? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Let's go to Amendment No. 6 Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts, Club of HDSSB Representatives, please Deputy Minister of Honored Drazen Pross to be shown about the amendment and position of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22677	Thank you very much. Dear ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The view of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that the amendment is not accepted. In particular, the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts disagree with the introduction of a new item because the position of the development of entrepreneurship infrastructure and the business environment has the means to co-finance the construction of entrepreneurship zones. The funds will be approved on the basis of the conditions and criteria of very clear, precise, measurable criteria in an open public call for the inclusion of local and regional (regional) self-government units in the project Development of entrepreneurship infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22678	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter of the HDSSB Club, the respected representative Boro Grubisic is visible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22679	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy Minister, this is not about feelings as Mr. Linic says, but about common sense and calculation. Namely, you know well that the Brod-Posavina County and the town of Slavonski Brod is, above all, the county in the last place according to all economic indicators and arguments from GDP, and mainly unemployment rates. And now that this amendment requires that six million kuna be determined for... that Whites, we get one general answer that doesn't guarantee anything, but nothing at all. Therefore, this Bijeliš economic zone in Slavonski Brod would ensure quite certain new employment and start-up of the economy in Slavonski Brod and Brod-Posavina County. We don't need feelings but we need the government's understanding and the government's account to be one part of Croatia, which is Slavonski Brod and the Brod-Posavina County, but there are no such feelings. But what I wanted to say was a clean bill, a long love, so there is no love here, and the bill will be shown in the local elections in May. Thank you very much. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22680	Thank you, too. I would like to make a statement about the amendment of the HDSSB's Club of Representatives which the government does not accept. Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to Amendment 7, Ministry of Agriculture, Agent Dinko Bosnjak. I ask Minister Jakovina to plead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22681	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Agriculture, in accordance with the means available in terms of rationalising the budgetary costs for the above amortisation, has provided an amount of EUR 200 000.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22682	I'd like to make a statement to the motionary, the esteemed representative, Dinko Bosnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22683	The Honorable President of the Parliament, the Honorable Minister. The funding of €200 000 is needed to finance an Alkaran ergel that owns 50 alkar horses that serve the needs of Sinjska Alka where 5 employees are also employed. The total amount of costs for the financing of the Alkarska ergela at the annual level is €1 million. Given the fact that Sinjska alka is a Croatian knight's game included in UNESCO's list of immaterial cultural heritage, I believe that the Republic of Croatia from the state budget should help to maintain... a centuries-old long tradition. I am not satisfied with the argument given, because for some ergels, funds can be increased by millions until there could be no amount left for the Algerian ergel at this year's symbolic level. I think there were dozens of items that could have been cut, and I don't know what purpose it was made with. I believe that this meeting of the Croatian Parliament knows well what Sinjska Alka is and will support this amendment where it is happy about the minor funds for the state budget. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22684	Thank you very much. I would like to make a statement on the amendment of the honourable representative Dinko Bosniak, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to Amendment number eight... Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22685	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament since we received these materials on the bench we have tried in time since the debate began whether or not the Government of the Republic of Croatia discussed these amendments, given that all the websites and governments and all of this exists only that on Thursday at the government meeting the Government discussed these amendments, that the Government did not discuss amendments. If the government has not discussed the amendments, then the Croatian Parliament cannot discuss these amendments for a simple reason. The government is a draftr of the budget, all interventions in the budget, whether adopted or not, must be decided by the Government. It has been all these past years and if it has not happened now it is the first time that I remember in the last 12 years to discuss amendments by MPs to the draft state budget, and that the decision has actually not given its opinion on these amendments at either a telephone or a special session by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Because I repeat, the proposer of this budget is not even a minister, practically the Minister of Finance is according to the Government, but the government is ultimately all interventions in the budget whether or not they are accepted can be brought exclusively by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, not a single minister can give it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22686	Thank you very much. I refuse to object because the government's representatives here are legitimate, right-wing and represent the government's position. Let's move on. Amendment number... I'm nice to you... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] The position of the Government shall be made by representatives of the Government. Please... We won't discuss it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You have business opportunities, make an observation on the boards, and we'll sort it out. ... Wait till we finish the eye first, does the government's representative want to say something? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22687	On Thursday, a regular cabinet meeting discussed the government's amendments and amendments to the opposition, and all amendments were rejected.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22688	You heard the explanation of the government's representative, the position. You still need a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22689	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I said we watched Mr. Minister on the government's website. If you've been discussing these amendments, then it's common for the government's websites to say that the government has discussed amendments to the MPs that it has rejected them. The government's website states that you have discussed the government's amendments. The second thing is, every government session whether it's a phone or not has a phonogram record and therefore I'm looking for a break on behalf of the HDZ Club for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22690	I'll give you 10 minutes off, but only before I tell you. The website did not officially read where neither the budget or the amendment was published. You heard the view of the government's representative that the government decided at the session on all amendments. Yes, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22691	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. On behalf of the HDSSB club, I'm also looking for a 15-minute break for the same reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22692	Thank you very much. Any more requests for a break? There isn't. Thank you very much. I'm taking a break for 10 minutes. We'll be back at 10.25 again. Dear MPs and respected representatives in the Croatian Parliament continue to work. Stanko was requested by the HDZ Club and the HDSSB Club. I'd like a representative of the HDZ Club to be seen.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22694	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. So we have before us the government's agenda and a supplement to the government's agenda, which the minister had just said was being discussed among other things and amendments by MPs. I quote: "Third additional point under a) Proposal for an amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the proposal for a state budget. (b) Proposal for an amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the proposal for a financial plan of the Croatian Waters for 2013. (c) Proposal for an amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Final Proposal for a Law on the Implementation of the State Budget. Under d)Proposed amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Budget Act. I under (e) Proposal for an amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Final Proposal for a Law on the Restitution of Public Institutions." Therefore, it is evident from this that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not discussed amendments submitted by representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It's the first time something like this has happened and it just can't happen. This does not comply with any of the acts of the Republic of Croatia. Because if the Government is the one proposing the budget and if this House is discussing this budget, it is its opinions and proposals, then the government's minimum competence towards these MPs is, above all, towards the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because these amendments are amendments to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia rather than political parties. The political parties only present it here, then it was common that if anything else were to be called a special session of the Government of Croatia and the cabinet's position was given at the session, not by a single minister on amendments. Obviously, that didn't happen this time. Because look, we're also in possession of government statements from a closed session. It doesn't say anything either. Therefore, the government of the Republic of Croatia has not discussed these amendments. Gentlemen Ministers, with all due respect to you, you do not have the right here today to say to any representative in the Croatian Parliament, not one citizen to whom this amendment refers that you do not accept this amendment because you simply do not have the right to determine the means for which the decision has not been taken by the House of Commons. Because the Croatian Parliament is making a decision on the budget on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So we intervened for the reason that we got these materials and amendments to the government practically the last hour on the bench. We have intervened because the practice in this House is that Croatian lawmakers no longer decide anything. This is just proof of another haughtiness, another boastful attitude towards representatives in the Croatian Parliament, and since we are representatives of the people, it is another proof of the boastful attitude towards Croatian citizens. And regardless of you have an extra hand, you can do whatever you want. However, on your conscience, colleagues and colleagues will you accept this behavior. Is that going to happen to any of you tomorrow when you make a suggestion without being accepted? So, the Croatian Democratic Community club, given the facts that are there and which no one can dispute, proposes that this debate on the vote of the amendment be suspended, that the government of the Republic of Croatia make a decision and that only after the government of the Republic of Croatia has decided to continue the debate on the vote of the amendment. Everything else is against the law, everything else is the rape of democracy. Maybe some of them were in a hurry to stop at the skis as soon as they could forget what their elemental right was. However, the final decision here in Croatia is made by this High House, by parliamentary representatives, by the majority who is and you take responsibility for something that is illegal if you raise your hand for it. You told the Croatian Democratic Community she was like this, she's like that. However, we never took the right to discuss in this House more than 400 amendments, to humiliate a representative in the Croatian Parliament no matter which political party he belongs to, that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not make a decision on his amendment and that, with the decision of that Government, the government's representative whether it is the minister, the resolution minister of finance comes to this House and the representative explain why the amendment was or has not adopted. So, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, it is evident that these amendments have not been discussed. Unfortunately, I must say, the statement by the Minister of Finance is not correct because it is not seen from any document by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I suggest that we stop this debate, that the government make a decision on the amendments and then continue this debate. Everything else you are a lawyer is a violation of the Law of the Republic of Croatia and of the Rules of Procedure on the work of this House of Highs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22695	Thank you, too. Your presentation requires, of course, some explanation from this table. First, the government has made a unique decision that no amendment can be discussed in the Croatian Parliament without the government's position whether it is an amendment to the budget or other acts in the government. Secondly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has sent here to the Parliament of its ministers legitimately and legally. Third, the minutes discussed by the HDZ Club are not about a certified government act. It's not about the verified, don't come in, you've brought out everything you think and what you thought was important. Third, everything we do in the Croatian Parliament as the representative of the HDZ does on behalf of and on behalf of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia with the same right as everyone else. If we are wrong, and it is possible that the Croatian Parliament too exists above the Constitutional Court. Therefore, we will continue to work in harmony. ... You'll be able to, uh, just let me finish and finish the second representative of the club. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We will work in accordance with the Constitution and with the Rules of Procedure. And now the HDSSB's club has its own obvious. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22696	Thank you, Mr. President. First, I would say something about this last sentence of yours that was wrong by the Croatian Parliament, then it can be solved in a way that is above the Croatian Parliament there is therefore a Constitutional Court. This is not about whether or not the Croatian Parliament made a mistake, this is about whether it is in the procedure, we are doing normally by the Rules of Procedure and by procedure, and according to the Constitution, whether the procedure in the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is respected. So, if indeed the Government of the Republic of Croatia on all amendments submitted to the state budget is not even discussed then it is not only underestimating towards the Croatian Parliament, then it is unacceptable, then it is also unconstitutional because I will also remind you of the provisions of Article 4. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia on the three-division of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the provisions of Article 81 which states that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not ultimately adopt the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but the Croatian Parliament and, with all its amendments, have been accepted or not accepted as provided for in Article 115. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which defines the powers of the Government of the Republic of Croatia referred to in Article 108 only in the sense that it is the applicant, and not the one who ultimately makes the decision. But what I would say most in the name of the club here is the way government representatives treat parliamentary representatives who are ultimately the only ones elected directly from Croatian citizens, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been legitimately elected by the majority in the Croatian Parliament. And you are obliged to respect the most representative and legislative body in the Republic of Croatia. And that's why it's an unauthorized statement, Mr. Finance Minister, that in this way I'd say the way you say it is we've discussed it, all amendments have been rejected. So what are we going to discuss here? Then it really doesn't make sense. You are obliged here to give us all an explanation which is why these amendments are either accepted or rejected. If you say the Lonesome Government sat down, refused all this, then this whole debate of ours doesn't make any sense. And it is not right that when we bring the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia as the most important document that determines the future of everything that is going to happen in the country in the next year that not only are all representatives of the Government, each minister, but there is no Prime Minister here. I won't comment on skiing or not skiing. I don't know if it's skiing or not, only from the media I've read about, but wherever it was, and it's not allowed in the Croatian Parliament today, the President of the Croatian Government when a document like this is brought in, and it can't just be three or four ministers representing and giving answers to the amendments on behalf of all ministers whose issue has been asked to the amendments. The HDSSB Club warns that this is not a good message from the Government of the Republic of Croatia and that this is offensive, and that it shows both incompetence and social insensitivity, and I would say one irresponsibility which makes us truly very, very bitter. Because if you're standing by your statement, all the amendments are rejected, then I really don't see what we're going to talk about anymore. And I would like, in the end, to really know if the government is really here and I would ask on behalf of the club to deliver both a phonogram and a record of where and when these amendments have been discussed in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. When we know that, I won't argue that it isn't, but as a representative as a Club of Representatives, we're looking for it when we see it, then I think it'll be all clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22697	And here I want to mention two important things. Any representative may ask a representative question regardless of the current watch or outside the current clock. Secondly, honourable representative Dinko Buric is very meaningful that the Parliament discusses the amendments and decides on them because we will decide on every amendment here regardless of the government's position. And that's our constitutional right and constitutional obligation. And the Government's right to, in accordance with its priorities, propose to the Parliament that it be accepted or not accepted, it is its right and in accordance with its powers under the Constitution it has decided. And we will now debate and depending on the credentials of the arguments, or God give us good suggestions to get results. Your Honor, you've now had on behalf of the club and you've spoken, and you can't argue with the table right now. That's not for the Rules of Procedure. ... On behalf of the club. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What topic?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22698	About this subject because you, as chairman, wanted to show good faith. A phonogram of the government's session could be obtained these 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22699	Please, Your Honor, that question is over for now. We're done.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22700	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I, as a representative in this House of Higher Education, wants to protect the integrity of the Croatian Parliament. You have a Rules of Procedure on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia where he tells you exactly. ... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22701	That, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, you sit down because we have finished this debate, and we have heard these arguments and I beg you nicely.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22702	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament you did not bother to offer representatives in the Croatian Parliament a relevant and important document as valid, and this is the minutes from the meeting of the Government. The minutes from the cabinet session would show exactly that the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not make a decision on the amendments and violated Article 51(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22703	Okay. Now you've all ended up past the Rules of Procedure, it would be your turn to tell you now in accordance with the Rules of Procedure what you've done wrong, which is why you haven't brought anything new. Anything you have stated can be sought in accordance with the regular route. You got it. Representative of the Government, the Honorable Minister of Finance. Here you go. Let's get back to work. Dear Minister of Finance Slavko Linic on behalf of the promoter. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22704	Thank you, Mr. President. The usual practice of ministers over the past 20 years has been to decide whether or not they will accept the amendments. Let me say it. This was a common practice, and you will not find in any of the minutes that amendments have been made in any minutes. We will not talk about the budget where the amendments are always said to be rejected. A similar practice was supported by us. Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, and I especially remember this case because I was the one who suggested that we accept the amendment of the opposition to the Financial Business Act so that we could have a consensus in the Parliament. At that time, the Prime Minister made it very clear that no one would give me the right to say the amendment because it was the government's job. At that time, it was said by the president and that was the reason why the Prime Minister changed the Prime Minister's Rules of Procedure and the Government's Rules of Procedure was changed in which it was made very clear from every government proposal if we want to accept any amendments that would be accepted by the government. And that's why we're always discussing the amendments that are being accepted, the rest is being rejected. Why? Is the government's proposal very clear and the draft budget is clear and the proposal for some legal text is clear. And if amendments change something then it's the government who's discussing the changes to the text he's proposed. Therefore, the government's draft budget is what the government has established and proposed. And I would just like to make it very clear that the Prime Minister was present at a session of the Parliament where all clubs discussed and listened to the debates of clubs. Our job was to try to change the government's amendments. And in that part where the amendments corrected the text of the budget at the session, a decision was made on whether it was a change in the text that the government had sent. The rest was not debated and they were rejected. Not because neither this House is being demeaned, nor the debate in this House, but because there is no solution found in the government's coordination to change anything about the amendments. Therefore, if co-ordination had established that some amendment of parliamentary deputies had been accepted, then it would have been in the Government of the Republic of Croatia as the text of the amendment. for the simple reason that it is a new Rules of Procedure which has been established because of the demands of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia who felt that none of us had the power to do so unlike all those before you and some of us who used it in the first 8 months of this year. Therefore, since amendments by parliamentary deputies were not accepted were not particularly discussed, it was decided to refuse because it was not in the government's procedures that part.... Well, we'll introduce you to the Rules of Procedure, which unfortunately we haven't had so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22705	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Several replicas have been reported for exposure. Let's take it in a row. The first replica and respected representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22706	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. In the records of all media houses, you will see from 2003-2011 all the budgets proposed and rebalancing, all the amendments on them were made at specific points of the agenda by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You can now justify yourself as much as you want, but the amendments to adoption to this High House could not come without a government decision, and that is, I will also read to you Article 51(4), which says that in the debate in the Croatian Parliament and its working bodies a representative of the Government can accept the amendment, the other promoters is... on the final draft of the law proposed by the Government only with the previous consent of the Government. An application for the prior consent of the Government shall be submitted to the Government in writing together with the text of the amendment. So if something is accepted, then I guess something analogues in the same way and refuses. You can ask for an apology as much as you want, but you're just doing something that never happened. And, Mr. Minister, it is not true that I am responsible here and I can document this as opposed to you with the phonograms of the government's session, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has always been in session for the past 8 years whether or not, by phone, discussed the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and in the acts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you have an orderly decision of the Government on amendments. Government decision on amendments you don't have today. And you can do any exhibition you want, but this is the first time that at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament, you can discuss amendments of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, that they were not given by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. That's not good. Say as much as you like, enter into the Croatian Parliament one boast and bad practice for you gentlemen MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22707	Thank you very much. Replica reply, respected Finance Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22708	Yeah, we just got here. Imagine a phone discussion about the amendments. You know what kind of phone debate this is?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22709	Please. What's wrong with you?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22710	Or not all of a sudden we say no. It's a phone discussion of the governments so far. ... The government, led by Mr Zoran Milanovic, has amended its Rules of Procedure and said this will no longer work, and it has been found mandatory for the government to discuss amendments that have been changed in the Parliament. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The budget was thus discussed Thursday, you see points there, and what we did not propose as amendments has been positively rejected. It's the same as the phone session that they... And at the same time, my dear gentlemen, none of the legal texts you have proposed over the last eight years have you or very rarely been to government meetings and have accepted the amendments that the ministers have defended here. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Mr. Zoran Milanovic's ministers have no right to accept any amendments unless the government has established it before. Therefore, this government discusses changes to the text each time, and the government approves or does not approve. If the amendment is not accepted, the text does not change, then no decision shall be taken on it. Therefore, only those texts that amend the government's proposal are subject to debate in the government. The rest is not accepted. Therefore, the Rules of Procedure and those of us who once knew how to come here and say we accept, and no meetings of the Government have been held, which thanks to the Prime Minister is no longer the case. And that's why I don't understand this behavior because the government discussed and said on Thursday what amendments it accepts that change the text of the state budget, the other amendments do not accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22711	Thank you very much. Second replica, the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22712	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'd like to ask for a more calm discussion first because I don't think a discussion like this is going to get us anywhere. Mr. Minister spoke, and now I have to admit that I'm no longer sure if I understand correctly, whether or not the government has discussed amendments to parliamentary deputies. But what I think you could have done because it's a 100-metre distance, could have already been asked by the government to get an insight into the phonogram from the last session that could prove what you're saying whether or not you've discussed amendments to the opposition MPs. And while you were already speaking to Mr. Ministers about the practice then you were confused in at least one part, you were talking about a practice that is irrelevant in view of the amendments to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Government that you adopted on 31 October 2012 and which tells you that only with the previous consent of the Government can you accept amendments that are not government amendments. In order for you to get the previous consent of the Government to accept something, it must be manifested, so it tells you to accept or not to accept it, and you can only resolve it at a session of the Government that should be held in this part of the season in Zagreb, not in Obertauern or any other ski resort. Therefore, if we could talk today about amendments and the government's position towards these amendments, it would be up to the Parliament to provide evidence to see if this was at all discussed at the cabinet's session. And I ask you, Mr. President, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, to request a phonogram from the cabinet's session, and then we can continue the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22713	Thank you for your advice. I've already said that the government has made up its mind and made up its mind, but that's not enough for you. The government has sent ministers to Parliament legitimately and legally, but that is not enough for you. I will not qualify what you do, you have the right to do as much as you will, as much as you will in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and to hear citizens. That's important. Okay. So the government sent in accordance with the Constitution, with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, with its clear and decision to Parliament representatives to explain the government's views on the amendments. It's not enough for you, but it's not my fault, it's not your fault. ... I'm sorry, I think we're going to work if you want, you can do whatever you want, but now it's time for the third replica and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. [[You can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22714	I'm going to start Mr. President with a statement from a former representative who said he never lies, but often doesn't tell the truth if you remember that. The fact that the government hasn't discussed the amendments at all. So I ask the ministers a question, if an individual can decide as a minister, and if he does not oppose his boss who said that as an individual he will not decide, he will decide the government. I ask the question, then why the Constitution? I don't mean that purified Shakespeare Constitution, but that Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia that ordered the appearance of the Constitution. Why the Budget Act? After all, why this Parliament? Why vote for MPs, if the government can work in such a way I would say arrogantly to all parliamentary deputies whether they are a position or opposition. At least this HDZ had that government session, so he turned down all the amendments. I don't see why this government didn't do it. Otherwise, for us, Slavonia SDP is identical to HDZ, because with every budget Slavonia, Baranja is increasingly lagging behind and there is no funds in the budget. At the very end, I'm going to quote a song like this that says, "Let's go to the mountains because there's no winter, skiing is quick to learn who's stupid" to sit in the Parliament and lead this debate that doesn't lead to anything because the government has in advance phone or tablet or e-mail rejected all the amendments. No Government and this is beyond the budget law, past the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, pulsing this Croatian Parliament and all MPs sitting.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22715	Thank you very much, Your Honor. You claim to be a government, just to tell you. You claim the government has refused amendments without debate. ... Okay. Please, let me give you an explanation. [[You can't hear him.]] The government has a right to do that. Don't call her why she doesn't argue. It's like when the Parliament decides without debate on the acts here in the Parliament. The fourth replica is Honored Representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22716	Dear Mr. President, this debate on amendments is underestimating not only for Croatian MPs but for Croatian citizens. This attitude of the motion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia towards documents, acts by representatives of the Croatian Parliament, is underestimating. We don't accept it without you even discussing it irresponsiblely. You don't have the authority to do that. That doesn't give you any regulations, no Rules of Procedure on the work of the Government of the Republic of Croatia gives you the right. And do not engage yourself in a whirlwind of untruth by defending something that is not defensive. You said if I understood correctly. You tried to accept some amendment, and then the Prime Minister said the minister couldn't decide on his own whether to accept it. Analyzingly, the minister cannot decide on his own that he will not accept it. You also said, we were only discussing amendments that were accepted. So how, on the basis of which they were made, they made a decision on amendments that were not accepted if you did not discuss them. So you had to discuss all the amendments and all these 51s and those you invested to make a decision. We accept this, and we don't accept this. But what's worse for us is your sentence that you're killing hope for Croatian citizens, and I'm going to say here, especially now, to Croatian farmers what we're going to talk about, that it makes sense to follow this now that you've made the decision. You know, the Croatian Parliament is not responding to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And when you said about the phone sessions, Here's the conclusion. [[The President's incursion: time. Time, Your Honor.]] You know, if it weren't for the Prime Minister going skiing right now, there wouldn't even be a need for phone sessions here.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22717	Thank you very much. The decision will be made by the Croatian Parliament, however. You can perform because the assembly is for it to take place, but everything will be decided by the Croatian Parliament. Replica reply, respected Finance Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22718	Mr. Buric, Mr. Zoran Milanovic's government does not decide on phone sessions except for fire-related, fire-fighting aircraft interventions. It's about our phone sessions. We sit and decide about everything else regularly. Therefore, I am not talking and talking about the practice of exes who used to discuss budgets with telephone sessions. So we don't discuss it. On Thursday, the special item was the budget, the amendment to the budget. And very clearly, all right, Mr. Shucker, no problem, I'm one big liar who I'm lying to right now if you say it's a lie and it's a lie. So... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22719	Please let a representative of the government speak of what he's intended to say. Don't throw it out of the bench.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22720	The government of the Republic of Croatia received an amendment Thursday and received parliamentary amendments. And the government has also made it very clear that it is not accepted and the ministers are in charge of writing an explanation. And you have here today a negative view of the government by amendments of parliamentary representatives with arguments. And these reasons are for the ministers to defend themselves before the Croatian Assembly. Therefore, it is the Parliament that hears the government's position, which is the minister in charge, and you will decide on any amendment with a yes or no. Therefore, the Parliament decides on amendments, and you get the government's position. Government position established by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and presented by ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22721	Thank you very much. Next replica, respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22722	Dear President of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues of the Croatian Labour Party have not submitted any amendments because they knew that we would get the kind of answer we received today, in advance because it is a practice here in the Parliament and it is absolutely certain that the General Assembly will decide, but it will be as decided by the Government. This is the most important political act expressed in figures brought by the Parliament in a year. Today, the act is voted and it is an important event for both the government and the Parliament and the people. Therefore, if this is important for both the people and the Parliament and the government, then Mr. Prime Minister should sit here, all ministers should sit and explain what they accept and what they do not accept. This today looks like a boring, unwanted routine that needs to be done after all. Still, it says in some papers that we need to discuss and that most people need to raise their hands. However, we are all aware that the state of the country does not suffer routine. Mr. Prime Minister said that Croatia has a state of emergency, that is his sentence, and look how the most important document is being discussed today in a year. Unsatisfactory and beyond measure. The situation is extraordinary and in this state of emergency, where does our prime minister go? The expensive ski resort because, as one columnist said these days, the prime minister loves the downhill, we're all downhill, so he's skiing, and we're listening here that everything we're going to suggest is not going to be accepted anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22723	Thank you very much. Next replica, Honorable Representative Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22724	Dear Mr. President, here we are again witnessing by not knowing which way one fact that in Croatia it is clearly considered that parliamentary democracy is not needed or is at least humiliated in one way that is completely inappropriate. There's something out of this whole discussion so far that's pretty obvious. It is clear, and it has been made clear whoever wants to hear it, that the Government did not discuss with the new Rules of Procedure the amendments given by the representatives of this Croatian Parliament. So the question arises, at all, about the meaning of anything and that of our stay until midnight here when certain aspects of the budget and everything else have been discussed. The giving of amendments, discussions about them and everything together when the procedure is not even respected, let alone the decision being made right here in the Croatian Parliament, regardless of who has the majority. It doesn't matter who has the majority, but the Croatian Parliament is the place where democratic democracy decides. And I repeat what others have already said to the Parliament is the government's authority, not the Government of the Parliament, although we witness every day that it happens just like this. However, since it is certain that, despite the essence of the matter, the procedure is not respected at all, I am praying on behalf of the HDZ Club for 10 minutes to decide whether or not we will participate in this farce that is happening here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22725	Thank you, Your Honor. You know very well that you can't get a break on the same thing. You've already got it, you've already used it to break on that thing. Another thing I want to tell you before I ask you to give a replica according to the Constitution we went to elections, we got most of it, we got most of it in the Croatian Parliament, we formed the Government of the Republic of Croatia and, for the sake of the public, the majority in the Croatian Parliament has no objections to the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. For reasons of opposition, they have objections to the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In line with democratic principles, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, we will decide on every amendment here in Parliament. It's our right and our obligation. Of course there will be those who will be dissatisfied with that status, but my God, that's how we've arranged the system and that's how we'll behave. We're going to discuss the amendments. I'd like to ask you, Your Honor, to be rational with time. Everything you had to say about this, you said. Thank you very much. Let's move on. .../The Intruder doesn't understand. Don't, let's move on. It means you wanted to, so you caused a situation like that. Thank you very much. I want you to feel good. Let's keep working. Amendment number 8 of the HDZ Representatives Club, I ask the Government's representative to be seen. Ministry of Agriculture and Minister of Agriculture Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22726	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The amendment is not accepted. The Ministry of Agriculture planned sufficient funds for the activities of A820055 direct payments in agriculture to fulfil all obligations paid by those activities. The reductions proposed by other budget users or other ministries cannot be carried out because they planned the budget objectively to fit into the given limits.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22727	Representative of the HRZ Representatives Club. They're not here. We need to make a statement about the amendment. I ask by raising my hand to declare who is for the amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club that the government does not accept? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We are going to Amendment 9 of the Ministry of Agriculture, the HDSB's representative club tabled an amendment. I'm asking the minister to manifest himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22728	Thank you, Mr. President. The amendment is not accepted. The first part is explained as well as Amendment No 8, and in the second part regarding the Agency for Payments in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, as follows in the latest comprehensive EU Commission report on the monitoring of the readiness of the Republic of Croatia for EU membership in early October 2012 mentions the particular need for enhanced efforts in the final establishment of the Payment Agency for its timely accreditation. Further to this report, the EU Commission's Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted all the EU Commission assessments in this report and reached a 10-point conclusion at its session of 11 June 2012 where the conclusion of 4 relates to the area of agriculture, inter alia, and the need for increased efforts in part to achieve timely accreditation of the paying agency. The provisions of the A841001 Administration and the Management of the Payment Agency already have the accreditation for the implementation of EU pre-accession programmes by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by a decision of July 2012 between other bodies implementing pre-accession programmes and the Agency for Payment in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development as an institution whose capacities should be strengthened. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: In line with the EU Commission's findings, adequate space was needed to meet EU criteria. As a result, it rented a FINA space for 20 regional offices of the paying agency itself. As regards information K841002 and K650068, the establishment of an integrated administrative control system, etc. Elpis. Noting that the EU Commission's report on agriculture and rural development accurately sets out a chapter on agriculture covers a large number of binding rules many of which are directly applicable.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22729	... Speakers speak at the same time, do not understand. You don't have to read it all anymore. It's easy enough. I ask the representative of the proposer of the HDSSB's Club of Representatives to be shown about the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22730	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. First, I will say for the whole public why we feel we are obliged to stay here and discuss despite this sentence that amendments are not accepted. I'll also remind you of the lyrics of Pablo Neruda, the one who promises to destroy the one who says we don't have the right to raise our hands and not try and change it even when we know it doesn't make sense. It makes sense all we do is Mr. Minister any explanation when it comes to giving this amendment, you cannot escape from the fact that you have done immense, immeasurable damage to Croatian farmers and Croatian villages with this budget for the following year. Reduce the budget by 482 million kuna in your division, when you add those 558 million kunas from last year to the year of your leadership's term of office to reduce the budget for agriculture by more than a billion kuna is at least irresponsible of you, Mr. Minister, not wanting to insult a person but you as an official. You cut this budget because you got a warrant without even trying to fight for farmers and for the village. 600 million incentives for farmers and broken the law of the Republic of Croatia, a law that obliges the national envelope to be 2 billion 214 million kuna, and you went to a billion 600 million kuna. And with this attitude towards the Croatian village, to Croatian farmers and especially to Slavonskobaran village and Slavonskobaran agriculture, trust me that you have already been named in the people by the undertakers of Croatian agriculture and Croatian villages. In all of the Republic of Croatia, and you do nothing about it. [[attack: Time.]] [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Just blindly listening to you raise your hand to the government and nothing to anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22731	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22732	What you're doing, Mr. Minister, is you're the wrong man in the wrong place.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22733	Thank you very much. Do you want to vote on this amendment? I would like to make a statement about the amendment of the HDSB's Club of Representatives which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to Amendment 10 to Agent Branko Box and Amendment 10. I'm asking the Ministers for your readings.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22734	Thank you, Mr. President. The government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment. For the reasons that the resources provided are sufficient for the implementation of the second phase of the irrigation system... planned for 2013. The construction of the second phase of the irrigation system for it is only a submitted request for the certification of the main project or building permit and the start of works is expected only in the middle, or in the second half of the following year so that 2 million planned will be sufficient for this phase. Other funds were planned in 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22735	Thank you very much, Minister. Dear Representative Branko Boxti, Proposer of the Amendment. He's not in the hall. I would like to vote with a clear vote on the proposal for an amendment to Branko Box, a representative, which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to Amendment 11 of the HDSSB Representatives Club. Ministry of Agriculture, respected Minister Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22736	Thank you, Mr. President. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendments for the project in question, for which the Agency for the Development of Osijek-Baranja County is implementing and coordinating activities for the production of study documentation, an environmental impact study is under way which should be completed sometime in the spring of 2013 and following the adoption of and adoption of the study and adoption of a solution on the acceptability of environmental procedures, the development of an idea project and the implementation of part of the research work. The planned funding for 2013 is €12.5 million, with a co-financing ratio of 10% of the Ministry, 37.5% of HEP and Croatia's water and 15% of Osijek-Baranja County, will be sufficient for the completion of this project, i.e. for what was planned for 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22737	Thank you very much, Minister. On behalf of the promoter of the HDSSB Club, the respected representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22738	So it is a document, a project that is of strategic importance not only for Osijek-Baranja County but also for the Republic of Croatia. The strong money that has already been invested so far and then stopped does not justify the previous HDZ government or today's government to defuse this project in this way. It is a project of several billion kunas that is important in every respect for your ministry, so the Ministry of Agriculture, which is important for all Slavonia and Baranja. What you just said, that's it, let's drop a drop, we'll get something a year, and then we'll get something else behind that and we'll get something. It's like the Danube-Sava channel, if you act like the HDZ government was treating the Danube-Sava channel, they promised it every four years, and they never even finished it. If there was a serious intention to go into this project, I want to believe that it will be realized but from what you're saying, we're not looking for unreal and I don't know how big money. The Government of the Republic of Croatia could ensure that it wanted to, but you assure us that you will now go again with some funding documents. I know the procedure has to be followed, but why didn't you secure the money we asked for with the amendment to finally go into the realization of that project? This would show good will to Slavonia and Baranja and to our county, but also to all Slavonia and Baranja, and it is clear that I am not satisfied with this answer because there is no justification for what you are trying to justify, indefensible. No amendment that comes here from Slavonia and Baranja you don't accept, and you're Slavonic. Well, I mean, I really don't have anything to add. I'm asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22739	Thank you very much. I would like to make a statement about the amendment of the HDSB's Club of Representatives which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We move to Amendment 12, Ministry of Regional Development and European Union funds. The first amendment is representatives of Branka Juričev-Martinchev and MP Ante Kulusic. Here you are, dear Deputy Minister Jaksha Puljiz.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22740	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The view of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is that the amendment is not accepted. In fact, the applicants did not specify the budgetary position they intend to increase. They listed the inactivity programme, and there are a total of 12 activities in the programme mentioned. In addition, the Ministry's assessment under this programme has planned to provide sufficient resources for the implementation of all projects launched and planned by the Regional Development Ministry and the European Union funds for the period 2013-2015.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22741	I would like to make a statement on the amendment of MP Branka Juričev-Martinchev and representative Ante Kulusic, who is not in the hall. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 13. Representative Sima Djurdjevic. Here you are, dear Deputy Minister Jaksha Puljiz.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22742	The view of the government is that the amendment is not accepted. The purpose of the programme of integrated development of the local community is to build, rebuild and rehabilitate social, municipal infrastructure facilities, and a prerequisite for project adoption has been prepared. The nomination of projects was carried out in June 2011, and project documentation as mentioned is not an acceptable activity and can therefore not be financed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22743	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Since Mr. Sima Djurdjevic is not in the hall, I ask that we state who is in favour of the amendment of Mr. Sima Djurdjevic, whom the government does not accept. Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 14 of the HDSSB Representatives Club and Deputy Minister Zdenko Antešić, on behalf of the Ministry of Transport, Maritime Affairs and Infrastructure, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22744	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Government does not accept the amendment with the following explanation. The construction of the overpass across the railway line in Slavonski Brod D423 is planned at the position of (2008) The programme of denivelation and insurance of road and railway crossings.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22745	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, the applicant for the amendments, the respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22746	Mr. Deputy Minister, for the sixth time in this Croatian Parliament, I am putting in an amendment to build not an overpass but a underpass in Osijek Street, you have read it wrong. So it's not about the overpass. It's about the underpass. But here's what you'd say when we're watching those shows that you deserve a mustache. If so, it is finally foreseen at position K2 008 in the Croatian roads to build this underpass. Well, then, I don't know if it makes sense to ask for a vote on amendments. In order for us to confirm that, I request a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22747	Thank you very much. You're looking for a vote. I would like to make a statement about the amendment of the HDSB's Club of Representatives which the government does not accept. Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to Amendment 15. HDSSB's club. Deputy Deputy Minister Zdenko Antesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22748	Thank you very much. The Government does not accept the amendment with the following explanation. The proposed project refers to a county road run by the County Road Administration of Osijek-Baranja County. For this reason, the project is not included in the Croatian Roads Financial Plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22749	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB club, the applicant for the amendment, the respected representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22750	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. I'm not satisfied with your argument, having a few facts in mind first. The city of Osijek has so far invested in the project documentation for the project, somewhere around a million and 600,000 kuna, with a contractual obligation agreed in advance with the Croatian Railways, which was to be financed by the project with 18%. Neither did Croatian railways that had a contractual obligation so far have financed any kuna for the project, nor has the project received support from competent ministries except the city of Osijek so far. It should be said that the value of the project is about 63 million kuna. We've been looking for 61 million kunas with this amendment. You rejected it, and several more important facts need to be said about the importance of the project. What a danger it is to the citizens of the city of Osijek in the morning, in the morning hours, 1700 people pass by that crossing, in the afternoons about 2,000 of our citizens walk by that transition. About 25,000 vehicles pass by that crossing daily, about 30 times a day stopping traffic along Leopold Mandic Street due to the passing of trains, which is on average about 150 minutes a day, and it is indeed one of the projects that not only endangers the safety of citizens in the city of Osijek, but it is a project that is important for the infrastructure of the city of Osijek, not only Osijek, but also a wider area and I am asking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22751	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment number 15 of the HDSB Representatives Club that the government does not accept. Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We move on to amendment number 16 of Honored Representative Zoran Vinkovic. I'm asking Deputy Minister Honorable Zdenko to give you the government's position.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22752	Thank you very much. The Government does not accept the amendment with the following explanation. For the realization of the claim in question, no basic assumptions were created, therefore no project documentation was made, no property-legislative relations were resolved and the necessary licences were not issued, and therefore it is not possible to access the implementation of the project in question for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22753	An indication of the applicant for the amendment, the respected representative of Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22754	And I'm obviously supposed to say now that I'm extremely happy with this explanation. This is a disaster from your explanation regarding, I will remind you that we are just doing the city of Djakovo for this part of the road D46 which is the oldest road in the Republic of Croatia because it passes through Djakovo. At the same time, this road D515 connects Vukovar-Srijem County and Osijek-Baranja County. It is extremely important for the development of the economy, for the integration of two counties, and that road has been issued to you and a construction permit for reconstruction and has come to that D515 to Bračevac and needs to be reconstructed from Bračevac to Vinkovac. Last year I invited you both to the government of the Republic of Croatia as well as to ride together in these new Mercedes. Believe that on that road one and the other, your kidneys would drop if you didn't retire. On the other hand, this second part of this amendment is about the state road D46 which passes through the city of Djakovo where residents on the street of Petra Preradovic and on Pavic Street are shooting houses from the extreme state of the road. Since I am not satisfied, given that the city has invested a lot of money in the lighting of these two roads, in the reconstruction I am asking for a vote on this extremely important amendment and for Vukovar-Srijem County, as well as for Osijek-Baranja County. And I invite you all to take a ride along the Nasice road – Đakovo – Vinkovci if you are healthy after that I pay you lamb. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22755	Thank you very much. May we plead on the amendment of MP Zoran Vinkovic, whom the government does not accept? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number 17. HDSSB's club. I ask Deputy Minister Zdenko Antesic to be seen as the government's position.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22756	Thank you very much. The Government does not accept the amendment with the following explanation. Article 86 of the Treaty on the The road law is defined as one of the sources of public road financing to finance the construction and maintenance of public roads paid from the state budget at the expense of Croatian highways d.o.o. and Croatian roads d.o.o. in the same amounts of €0.60 per litre of excise duty charged on energy. That company for HAC d.o.o., those funds for HAC are provided for in the State Budget 2013 proposal at the position of A570014 of a billion 300 87 million 872 thousand kuna and can only be spent on the construction and maintenance of highways and under the 4-year programme of the Government of the Republic of Croatia pursuant to the Roads Act of Article 94. The proposal for a Croatia highway construction and maintenance plan for 2013 envisions investment at the VC Corridor of the borders of the Republic of Hungary-Birds of BiH is a total of 554 million kuna and that is the limit of the Republic of Croatia of Beli Manastir-Osjek of 450 million 275 thousand kuna and the borders of BiH of 104 million and 500 thousand kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22757	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. On behalf of the promoter of the HDSSB Club, the respected representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22758	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Mr. Deputy Minister, I'm not sure if I understood everything, but according to our amendment, we asked for 500 million kuna for the Corridor VC to continue the bridge across the Drava River that would link the corridor further to the border with the Republic of Hungary. So if you can tell me more if you mentioned that part of the projected funds at the position of the Croatian highways in an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22759	Just finish your honorary counsel. What, you're not satisfied or are you?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22760	I'm partially satisfied if this is included in the amounts we've been looking for. And given the reasons, I did not understand whether at this position that Mr. Deputy said about the position of the Croatian highways, part of the means to continue building the bridge across the Drava River was envisaged. Here, that's the only question. If so, then I'm partially satisfied with the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22761	Do you want to vote or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22762	We do.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22763	Then let's be clear about the amendment of the HDSSB's Club of Representatives which the government does not accept, and you will get the argument directly from the minister. Thank you very much. I find that the amendment has not received the required majority. Amendment No. 18 MPs Branko Bačić and Frano Matušić. My dear Deputy Minister, I ask that you be known on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22764	Thank you very much. The government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment, with the explanation that it is, financing the construction of a maritime passenger terminal in Vela Luka is planned to be implemented with the participation of EU structural funds. The project is included in the priorities of building infrastructure structures in the maritime transport sector, and the start of the realization is planned as soon as the basic conditions are met. The entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, approval of the project under consideration by the relevant EU bodies.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22765	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Dear MPs Branko Bačić and Frano Matušić are not in the hall, so we will declare by voting on the amendment proposal. Please, who is for the amendment of representatives Branko Bačić and Frana Matušić whom the government does not accept? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Let's go to Amendment No. The 19th Honored Representatives Bozidar Kalmeta, Branko Boxtija and representative Ana Lovrin submitted their amendment. I ask the Deputy Minister to appear on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22766	Thank you very much. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment with the following explanation, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure and the Port Administration of Zadar plan in 2013 to adapt certain construction and technological units of the project to the State budget for 2013 in a way that reduces costs by prolonging loans, reducing the volume of construction of units that have not yet been agreed and including concessionaries for the use of individual buildings.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22767	Since the representative of Bozidar Kalmeta, Branka Boxtija and Ana Lovrin is not in the hall, I ask that we declare ourselves by raising our hands who is for the proposed amendment that the Government does not accept. I find that no one is in favour of that amendment. Thank you very much. Let's go to Amendment No. 20th Honored Representative Branko Bačić. Deputy Minister, Honored Antesic Zdenko.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22768	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment with the following explanation, the Coastal Maritime Transport Agency responsible for the public coastal maritime transport in cooperation with the Ministry of Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure prepares a proposal for a measure of rationalisation and savings to maintain the frequency of travel on state lines in public coastal maritime transport in order to adjust the planned maintenance costs of this activity to available budgets. The measures mentioned above will not jeopardise the link between the island and the mainland, i.e. regular and uninterrupted public coastal maritime transport in accordance with the Transport Act in line with line and occasional coastal maritime transport.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22769	Thank you very much. Since the representative of the respected representative Branko Bačić, the applicant of the amendment, is not in the Chamber, I ask that we declare ourselves by raising our hands who is for an amendment that the Government does not accept. Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Moving to Amendment No. 21st Honored Representative Ante Babic. The Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Minister Anka Taritas-Mrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22770	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. That amendment is not accepted by the Government for the reason that the funds in the activities in question have only increased by 62 million kuna and thus are secured by the funds for salaries in the authorities of the State Administration, i.e. the competent authorities for the issue of local and construction permits in the counties and large cities for 2012 and 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22771	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Since the applicant for the amendment of the respected representative Ante Babic is not in the hall, he left the hall, I ask that we declare by raising our hands on an amendment that the government does not accept. Who's in? No one. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 22nd Honored Representative Branko Bačić. I ask Minister Anku Taritash-Murd on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22772	Thank you very much. That amendment shall not be accepted for the reasons set out in Article 1. The subsidisation law and the state guarantee of residential loans are provided with funds for the next three years, which are exclusively for the settlement of liabilities under signed contracts, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been assigned to the Project of Encouraged Housing Building and has provided adequate funds for the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22773	Thank you, too. The esteemed applicant for the amendment, MP Branko Bacic, left the hall. We need to make a statement about the amendment. I ask by raising my hand to declare who is to the amendment of Branko Bacic that the government does not accept? I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to Amendment 23, no, we're going to skip that, we're waiting for the minister. Okay. 23 and 24 amendments, we skip. We are going to amend the number 25-respected representative Zoran Vinkovic, the Ministry of Health, the respected Health Ministry Minister Rajko Ostojic. Here you go. on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22774	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament, ladies of the Parliament. Amendment No 25 is not accepted because, as you know in September in this House, the Croatian Health Strategy 2020 will be adopted, which will result in a whole series of action plans, one of them has already come out, the Public Health Development Plan, and now the Action Plan will come up soon. In accordance with the usual procedure, concrete restructuring and reorganisation measures will be established based on analysis not only of the hospital but also of the outpatient capacities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22775	Thank you, too. Amendment holder, respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22776	I remember the pre-election, pre-election rally of the Kukurik coalition in Djakov where it was promised we will return the birthplace if you give us confidence and votes. Similar to the last one, but this is practically the same amendment as last year, we are again familiar with certain action plans. Well, we're not here to make action films, but first of all to secure funds in the RH budget for one maternity home and for one town that has 30,000 inhabitants, in which the last born Djakovcanin was born in 2008, accidentally bears my last name, even in kind, not close to a cousin, but in any case, it's the least that the Government of the Republic of Croatia can do for Đakovo and Đakova's maternity home. However, since the government's amendment states that the position and the amount of 29 million kuna from the Ministry of Health will be reduced to cover the gaps in the public-private partnership, then it is clear to me, Mr. Minister, that you are now no longer prolonging your promise for a year but prolonging when Rambo 7 or 8 is recorded, so we will probably have an action plan that will be related not only to the birthplace in Djakova but also to Sinjsko. And now that the maternity home has a lot to do with Djakov with another institution Mr. Minister of Agriculture, those 8 million will not be enough to pay you, and it won't be enough for you to finish... Let me finish. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] The pride of all Croatia. It's an amendment I didn't want to write, but I remind you of it. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22777	I would like to make a statement about the amendment of the respected representative Zoran Vinkovic, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to the amendment number 26 of the respected representatives Davorin Mlakar and Đura Popiča. I ask the Minister of Health of Honored Rajko Ostojić to appear on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22778	The amendment is not accepted for the reason that the planned funds for K797000 ABRD activities are necessary for the completion of the loan and is practically impossible to implement in accordance with the international contracts of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22779	Thank you very much, Minister. Representatives Davorin Mlakar and Djuro The drinker have left the hall we must declare by vote. By raising our hands, I ask you to state who is in favor of the amendment of Agents Davorin Mlakar and Djura Drinker whom the Government does not accept? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to Amendment 27 to the Honored Representative of the Sunny Glavak. I ask the Ministers of Health of the Honored Rajko Ostojić to declare himself on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22780	The amendment is not accepted for the same reason as Amendment 26. So this is practically impossible as Mr. Finance Minister Slavko Linic has already said we have discussed in all these amendments, and these two are also the next bright example of amendments that should not have been discussed because it is practically impossible to re-apply to existing legal acts. So we discussed it and we shouldn't have.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22781	Thank you very much, Minister. Since a representative of Sunchana Glavak has left the Chamber of Amendments, I ask you to state by raising your hand who is in favour of a proposed amendment that the Government does not accept? Thank you very much. I'm saying she didn't get the necessary majority for her amendment. Amendment number 28 of the respected representative Darka Milinovic. Minister of Health, Honorable Rajko Ostojic, on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22782	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The previous two we couldn't accept is that impossible and this one was either believed or not for Guinness's book. This is really for Guinness's book believe it or not. So in September when we discussed the strategy I think a big club was looking for a session project because Col. Milinovic was then reading an old strategy from July and June, so they asked for a session interruption, so they realized basically that the September strategy was not even read. So he didn't read. There is now significant progress from counterpart Milinovic read this budget but he read the wrong year and the wrong column. There is significant progress, but here I will give you a very nice and clear time. So he read in 2012 and suggested that information with 52 million decreases, and that was 2012, so not in '13, he was reading prescription drugs for 2012, he was reading the wrong columns, basically particularly expensive drugs, and that's true for the Guinness book, believe it or not. We all know and this is proof that Col. Milinovic, and we've known that for months now, has a problem with numbers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22783	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Since the esteemed representative Darko Milinovic left the hall, I would like to ask for an amendment that the government does not accept by raising hands. Who's in? I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We are going to Amendment 29 of the respected representative Branka Juričev-Martič and MP Ante Kulusic, Ministry of Justice. Deputy Deputy Minister Sandra Artuković-Kunšt.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22784	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honored parliamentary deputies and MPs, respected ministers and deputies. The government does not accept this amendment because it proposes a balance between unbalanced items, i.e. unmatched items. The amendment refers to an increase in the items at the source of the funds for participation in loans, and that position enters the limit, i.e. entering into the calculation of the total deficit while the increase is proposed in item 41 at the sources of gambling income that do not enter the limit, and for these reasons technical and legal incompatibility of these two sources cannot accept an increase in the item that is within the limit and which is not. For this reason, the amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22785	Thank you very much, dear Deputy Minister. Since MPs respected Branko Juričev-Martinchev and MP Ante Kulusic left the hall, we must declare a proposed amendment that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. We return to Amendment 23 and 24. Thank you very much. Amendment number 23 of the respected representative of Jadranka Kosor. Dear Minister of Finance Slavko Linic on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22786	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the proposed amendment for its assessment that the planned funds at the point of prevention of school dependence are sufficient to realise planned activities.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22787	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Proposed representative Jadranka Kosor left the hall. We need to make a statement about a proposal for an amendment that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. And amendment number 24 of Honored Representative Drazen Djurovic. I'm asking the Minister of Finance on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22788	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the proposed amendment because the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports is not the only competent body in charge of the construction, construction, reconstruction and equipment of schools, but does so jointly with the counties and cities. At the same time, a public-private partnership programme for the construction and construction of schools for this year has been established that the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports will participate in co-financing such projects with 55% so that investment through this kind of funding will be far more significant than it has been in previous years.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22789	Thank you very much. Proposer of the amendment, a respected representative, Drazen Djurovic, an obvious one.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22790	Thank you. Well, in the 30th amendment that I've done here, I've stayed on this one single one because it's just plain obvious in advance that it doesn't make much sense. This is such a modest, tiny amendment for 2 million kuna for the project of building a school sports hall in Požega. The town of Požega doesn't actually have any school sports halls, so none. There are two inadequate, three spaces. Why, it was a position which existed in the previous budget and where there were 240 thousand kunas for the preparatory documentation, so the documentation was prepared and there was a legitimate building permit valid for the start of construction and a multi-purpose sports hall that would be for the needs of three secondary schools, so general high school, Catholic high school and high school. So this project is completely complete, but there is no desire nor will nor city nor county, and here is now neither state that in any way actually begins the project of building that school. Therefore, the value of the investment is about 10 million kuna, and here it was an intensity that simply when there is a project, building permit, space, everything is decided that simply with some amount of construction, then, in years, one, two, three, which follows, require further modality that the project actually starts because none of these three secondary schools have in any way solved the problem of conducting physical education for their students. Please vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22791	Thank you very much. By raising our hands, please let us know who is for the amendment of the respected representative Drazen Djurovic, whom the government does not accept. Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. That's why we've exhausted the amendments. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposal for a national budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013 and projections for 2014 and 2015. The budget requires a majority of the votes of all MPs in the Croatian Parliament, i.e. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. I'm asking you to raise your hand so we can state who's in favour of the proposed budget? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes of 83 votes in favour, 6 against and 6 abstentions have been brought by the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013 and projections for 2014 and 2015 in the text as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted. Thank you very much. Now let's move on. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The budget law is now being put to the vote on decisions to give consent to the financial plans of extra budget beneficiaries. Proposal for a financial plan of the Croatian Waters for 2013 and projections for 2014 and 2015. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted an amendment after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am voting with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on the proposal to discuss and decide on the amendment of the Republic of Croatia. Please raise your hand to plead who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes of 83 votes in favour, 6 against and 4 abstentions have accepted the Government of the Republic of Croatia's proposal to discuss and decide on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'm asking the representative of the motionary of the respected finance minister, he's not. And Tihomir Jakovina, okay. Agriculture Minister Tihomira Jakovina to explain the amendments of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22792	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to redistribute expenditure totalling €11 million allocated by capital projects on the proposal of the Croatian Waters Financial Plan for 2013 and projection for 2015. More precise operating expenditure, the position of K20386 capital aid for projects is increasing by 11 million kuna while expenditure on additional investments on non-financial assets is decreasing by 11 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22793	Thank you, too, dear Minister of Agriculture. I'm opening a debate. Only representatives of the club representatives in the Croatian Parliament can participate in the debate. Are there any interested? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes were accepted by the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia with 83 votes in favour, 10 against and one abstention. The proposal for an amendment is shared on the bench and I would ask the applicant's representative to declare the amendments submitted. Amendment number one of the respected representatives of Sunny Glavak. Minister of Agriculture Tihomir Jakovina on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22794	The amendment is not accepted. The government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment for the fact that technical documentation is under way for the project of reconstruction of the left coastal embankments Gornji Hrastani – Pušćina on the river Drava, and will be included in the investment activities programme of Croatian Waters after all necessary permits have been obtained, and what is planned to be completed in 2013 in the following year.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22795	Thank you very much, Minister. Since the honourable MP for the amendment has left the Chamber, I ask by raising my hand to make a statement about the amendment that the Government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I find that the amendment has not received the necessary majority. Amendment number two of Branko Bačić's representatives and representative Frana Matušić. I ask you, Minister of Agriculture, to plead on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22796	Thank you, Mr. President. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment for the reason that the financing of the regional water supply system Neretva – Peljesac – Lastovo – Mljet is foreseen through the position of K2005 investment in the reconstruction and development of water supply. Croatian waters are financing this project in 2012 and it is now under way that the island of Lastov is connected, and during 2013 through Peljesac the merger of Mljet and the completion of the other facilities is planned.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22797	Thank you very much. Since the amendment's proposing representatives, Branko Bačić and Frano Matušić, have left the hall, I ask that we declare ourselves by raising our hand on a proposal for an amendment that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. I am voting in favour of the Decision on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Croatian Waters for 2013 and the projection for 2014 and 2015. Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you. I find that most of the votes of 83 votes in favour, 5 against and 4 abstentions have been decided on granting consent to the Financial Plan of the Croatian Waters for 2013 and projections for 2014 and 2015 in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted. Two, a proposal for the Financial Plan of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund for 2013 and projections for 2014 and 2015. On the proposal of the Financial Plan, the amendment was submitted by representatives Branko Bačić and Frano Matušić. I would like a representative of the government of the Republic of Croatia, Minister of Finance, respected Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22798	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22799	Amendment No. 1. Honored representatives Branko Bačić and Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22800	Just to find an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22801	Easy, easy. We're here to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22802	The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the proposed amendment. The funds for the financing of investigative works and the production of project documentation of the County Waste Management Centre for the intended period in Dubrovnik-Neretva County are reserved in the entry K2009. - Waste management, construction of the waste management center. In view of the fact that no basic project documentation has been built for that centre, a performance study, an idea project for environmental impact studies during 2013 does not plan to start construction, and sufficient funding is provided for research and project documentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22803	Thank you very much, Your Honor. They are not in the hall, respected representatives of the amendments, Branko Bačić and Frana Matušić. I ask that by raising my hand, we state who is for a proposed amendment that the government does not accept. No one. I'm saying they didn't get the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. I am voting in favour of the Decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund for 2013 and the projections for 2014 and 2015. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you. I note that most votes, 83 for and 9 abstentions have been decided on granting consent to the Fund for Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency for 2013 and projections for 2014 and 2015 in the text as proposed by the Proposer. Three, a proposal for the Financial Plan of the Croatian Roads for 2013 and projections for 2014 and 2015. The debate on the text of the proposal is over. The proposal for an amendment is divided on the bench. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22804	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22805	Wait a minute, let me find the amendments now. Amendment No. First respected representative of Sima Djurdjevic. I ask Deputy Minister of Honor Zdenko Antesic to plead on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22806	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the following explanation, the construction of the south bypass of Nova Gradiška was planned in 2013 and 2014 at the position of K2005. - Other programmes of procedure on state roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22807	Thank you very much. The Honorable applicant for the amendment, legislator Shimo Djurdjevic, left the hall. I ask that we plead by raising our hands for an amendment that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 2. Representatives Davorin Mlakar and Đuro Popioč. I ask Deputy Minister of Honor Zdenko Antesic to declare himself on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the amendment proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22808	Thank you very much. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the following reasons, there is no need to balance the financial amounts of those programmes because in both cases there are capital investments in the state road, or there is no significant difference between investments in one or another programme.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22809	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Respected amendment applicants Davorin Mlakar and Djuro Popiac are not in the hall. I ask that by raising my hand, we declare who is to the amendments of respected MPs that the government does not accept. Thank you very much. No one. They didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 3rd Honored Representative Ivanka Roksandić. I ask Deputy Minister Zdenko Antesic to plead on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22810	Thank you very much. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment with reason, other programmes of procedures on state roads are planned in accordance with the possibility of realising the project and there is no need to increase the amount, position K2001. – Information cannot be reduced because the implementation and integration of new software solutions and information systems is under way. Investment in position K2003. – Business buildings are important because of the investment maintenance of the facilities that are used for the maintenance of roads by the Croatian roads.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22811	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. The honourable applicant for the amendment, MP Ivanka Roksandic, is not in the hall. I ask that by raising our hands, we declare who is for an amendment that the government does not accept. Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. Let's go to Amendment No. 4th Honored Representative Sima Djurdjevic. I ask Deputy Minister of Honor Zdenko Antesic to plead on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22812	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment with reason. ... Osijek Street in Slavonski Brod is planned at the position of the (2008) programme of denivelation and insurance of road and railway crossings. The extended Svačić street in Slavonski Brod is planned at the position of K2005 other programmes of procedures on state roads. The reconstruction of D423 in the section of the streets of Djaalski, Milanovic and Vrazova is planned at the position of K2012 investment maintenance of state roads and the contract is under way.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22813	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. As an MP for the amendment is respected Shimo Djurdjevic outside the hall to plead on a proposal for an amendment that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We are going to Amendment number 5 of the same representative of the respected representative, Sima Djurdjevic. I ask Deputy Minister Zdenko Antesic to plead on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22814	Thank you very much. The Government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment with the following explanation. Flexible studies on the integration of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County with the rest of the Republic of Croatia are under way with EU funding. After completion of the Croatian Road Study, Croatia will provide its share of financial resources to ensure the financing of the selected project.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22815	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Since the representative of the amendment is respected Shimo Djurdjevic outside the hall to state who is in favour of a proposal for an amendment that the government does not accept? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to Amendment number six of Honored Representative Igor Chesek. I ask Deputy Minister Zdenko Antesic to plead on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22816	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The government of the Republic of Croatia does not accept the amendment with reason. The construction of the project documentation for the construction of the fast road Belovar-Virovitica is planned at the K2004 site of the fast road construction and reconstruction program. for that stock, it is planned to start in 2013 with the construction of an idea project documentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22817	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Honorable representative Igor Češek's explanation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22818	It is good that it is so true, but I did not see it in the item, so I submitted the amendment because the fast road Bjelovar-Virovica is not a mere desire but a need. State of transport infrastructure especially the state road D2 so-called D2. The Podravska highway is unsustainable because it is particularly manifested in a large number of fatal accidents, which is why this road is called the road of death, and the density and intensity of traffic from year to year is increasing significantly. Construction of the fast road Bjelovar-Virovitica, and the continuation of the Vrbovec-Bjelovar road will allow for a far better connection of this part of Croatia with other regions and Europe, which will certainly significantly increase the economic development of Bilogor, Podravina, and eventually Slavonia and Baranja. I demand a vote on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22819	Thank you very much. Would you like to make a statement about the amendment of the respected representative Igor Czecho, whom the government does not accept? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. Please state the proposal of the Croatian Roads Financial Plan. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes are 84 votes in favour, 9 against and 1 abstention, the decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Croatian Roads for 2013 and the projection for 2014 and 2015 in the text as proposed by the Proposer. Proposal for a Financial Plan of the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks for 2013 and projections for 2014 and 2015. The debate on the text of the proposal is closed. I am voting in favour of giving consent to the Financial Plan of the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks for 2013 and projections for 2014 and 2015. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes are 84 votes in favour, 6 against and 3 abstentions, the decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks for 2013 and the projections for 2014 and 2015 in the text as proposed by the Proposer. 5. Financial plan of the Agency for the Management of State Property for 2013 and projections for 2014 and 2015. The debate on the proposal is closed. I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Agency for the Management of State Property for 2013 and projections for 2014 and 2015. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes of 84 votes in favour, 6 against and 4 abstentions have been decided to give consent to the Financial Plan of the Agency for the Management of State Property 2013 and the projections for 2014 and 2015 in the text as proposed by the Proposer. In accordance with the proposal of the Legislative Committee, I hereby conclude: "The Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament is hereby authorised to carry out, together with the representatives of the proposings, a revision of the text of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013 and of the projections for 2014 and 2015 and of the financial plans of extra budget users for 2013 and projections for 2014 and 2015 prior to their publication in the National Journal." I'm asking you, by raising your hand, to make a statement as to who the proposed conclusion is. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 84 votes for and 8 abstentions have reached the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22820	We move on to - Final draft law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013, second reading, P.Z. No. 202. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This law will be discussed in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and State Budget, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Links, the Committee on Law-Law Veterans, the Committee on Space and Construction, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Committee on Environment and Nature, the Committee on Health and Social Policy, the Committee on Agriculture, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Croatians outside Croatia, the Committee on Defence, the Committee on Labour, the Pension System and the Social Partnership, the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. I thank the ministers. ... I'm just reading what it says, if it's misspelled, it's okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you for your comment, Comrade Shuker. We've got Walter Boluncic to discuss. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Thank you for your patience, and tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Budget Law, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 205.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22821	Final draft law implementing the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013, second reading, PZE No. 202, the debate on the text of the final proposal is over. The government submitted an amendment after the deadline set by the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss and decide the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 84 votes for and 4 votes against and 4 abstentions have accepted the proposal to discuss and decide on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would ask the applicant's representative to explain the amendment to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Dear Minister of Finance Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22822	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. The Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes an amendment in this way to add a new Article 9a, which reads as follows: "1. The Minister of Finance shall give consent to the budgetary users of the state budget for the taking of commitments under the contracts requiring payment in the coming years if the total commitment under the contract does not exceed 10 million kuna. 2. Where the total obligation under the contract requiring payment in the following years exceeds the amount referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, the consent of the budgetary users of the state budget for the taking over of those commitments shall be granted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and shall, on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance, in accordance with Article 44. Budget law." A brief explanation, given that decisions on budgets and projections are normally made for the next two years to make the Government a more effective proposal is here to make possible contracts for the next two financial years and the right to be charged for the next two years, and according to projections, it gives the Minister of Finance up to 10 million kuna, and if that amount is exceeded then we estimate that the Government should make it. So we're coordinating projections with the government's operationals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-27-0.u22823	Thank you, well-respected Finance Minister Slavko Linic. I'm opening a debate. Only representatives of the club representatives in the Croatian Parliament can participate in the debate. Is there any interest in the debate? No, I'm not. I'm not. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes have been accepted by the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and it becomes an integral part of the final proposal, with 84 votes in favour, 4 against and 4 abstentions. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please let us know who's in favour. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes, 84 votes for and 6 against, 2 abstentions, have been passed the Law on the implementation of the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013 in the text proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted. Thank you very much. That's when we're done voting. Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament continue to work on the tide. We begin with - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Budget Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 205 The proposed law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 164. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the law was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Boris Lalovac, Deputy Minister of Finance. Here you go.
