ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10822	Our colleagues and colleagues continue to work at the 4th session of the Croatian Parliament. I welcome you all. We begin with: - Final proposal of the Law on the termination of the Law on compensation for the provision of services in mobile electronic communications networks, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 104 The bill is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received a proposal for action in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 164(4). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Reports of working bodies received at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Deputy Minister Boris Lalovec. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10823	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The Law on compensation for the provision of services in mobile electronic communications networks was adopted as one of the measures which affected the increase of the revenues of the state budget. The law entered into force on 26 January 2012. The object of the payment was fees, services, short text messages, and transfer services of images, speech and sound, message and voice services. The basis for the calculation of the fees shall be the income of the payer for the service provider provided to the service users, and the fee shall be paid at 6% of the income obtained. With this draft bill, we propose to abolish the compensation in question, which should have a positive impact on the investments of mobile electronic communications network operators, and will also influence the promotion of foreign investment in the Republic of Croatia. In addition, it is expected to provide an opportunity to reduce services provided to mobile electronic communications networks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10824	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, I'm opening a debate. Rights on behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives Natalija Martincevic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10825	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Minister of Finance with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. The reasons why the Government proposed extending the fee for providing services in mobile electronic communications networks was quite clear and gave a strong signal to mobile phone service providers that those who still fulfil the real sector of relatively high margins and profits must, together with everyone, bear the burden of this crisis. As it was said in the debate several months ago, it is absolutely evident that the mobile phone provider did not show excessive social responsibility and that the state still has to encourage them to take part actively in economic recovery through its mechanisms. And that was the primary objective which was to achieve an extension of the law on compensation for the provision of services. Therefore, the ultimate objective was not only to secure funds in the budget, although they undoubtedly helped stabilise the Treasury, but of course it was not the most important effect of that decision. In the past 5 months, an intensive dialogue has been launched with mobile communications operators who have been intensively lobbying for the suspension of this fee, and on the other hand, the state has been able to set up significantly stronger positions in a way that requires it to insist on mobile telecommunications operators to start on investment and start providing clear, predictable plans with deadlines which, when and where they intend to invest. A particularly active role in the process of fostering investments in electronic communications remains, of course, the Ministry of Economy under whose initiative has held several circles, meetings and written correspondence, and the aim of identifying the reasons for almost entirely absent investments and the willingness of operators in electronic communications to put investment in new technologies and better services as a priority and the extraction of profits, unfortunately, in Croatia, the practice puts into another plan. Because of the most important meetings in this regard, the first Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy and Deputy Minister of Finance with a member of Deutsche Telekom's Board for Europe and Technology Mrs Claudia Nemat and HT's chairman, Ivica Mudrinic, were certainly held, in order to clearly define the direction of investment in optical infrastructure at the highest technological level. This intensive dialogue, which should not only be continued but also strengthened, established that the investment potential exists but that more different measures should be coordinated for its activation, since, of course, negotiations with operators have given the other party medals, which is that those investments that have been prepared have not been realised because of our standards of better administrative and bureaucratic obstacles of all kinds and forms which the senior government has successfully applied in the domain of all investments and thus planned investments by mobile operators. First of all, in order to start investments in electronic communications, it is necessary to improve building regulations and facilitate the obtaining of the necessary permits, but to completely change access to regulation of electronic communications, although this demanding process of creating a stimulating and attractive investment environment has just begun to become clear that there is still a special and selective burden too much obstacle that is blocking more serious planning of new investments in the beginning. We expect, above all, from the operators, that the stated intentions of a much clearer investment after the suspension of this fee begin to be realised, and on the other hand we expect all relevant ministries, especially from regulators in the market for electronic communications "H-COM" to change access and start creating conditions for Croatia to really become attractive to new investments. The new sides in the project are still busy, but this will be the first step in this direction today. We in HNS will closely monitor how it will affect the launch of investments which are, however, the primary objective in Croatia at the moment, and in the future, we will appreciate decisions and measures exactly according to the promised and realised by the operator. We therefore support this proposal and expect that by the end of the year we already have the first results to be very clear and very concrete in terms of realising investments in electronic communications.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10826	Thank you. Next to discuss on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Martin Dalic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10827	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing again the Law on compensation for services in mobile telecommunications networks, this time we are discussing its abolition. Namely, after this same law was abolished in October 2011 it was reintroduced in February 2012 and now it is again requested to be abolished. In the Croatian parliamentary procedure and history, this is probably rare, if not the only example of the law that has been abolished twice in less than 9 months. However, the life course of this fee, the way the law was introduced, abolished, introduced, and now it wants to be abolished can actually serve as a good illustration of all the weaknesses and lack of economic policy in us. In fact, the law is abolished by reason of price reductions, investment stimulation and foreign investment stimulation. It was just the price, investment and harmfulness of the way in which this tax was imposed and there were arguments with which the law was abolished in October 2011 and there were arguments that I, too, made on behalf of the HDZ Club when this law was reintroduced. I made these arguments not for the sake of mere opposition to the motions of the ruling, not only because it is part of a set of knowledge that everyone involved in economic policy should have but also because this law has shown experience and shown weaknesses in its implementation. He never brought incomes that were expected, and he froze investment in a sector that has capacity, potential, and what is more important is the will to invest. The telecommunications sector has that capacity and potential simply because it is profitable. Profitability does not seem easy to forgive in Croatia because by reintroducing this law then the new Government has shown one of its first measures in an unequivocal way what it thinks about business performance, profitability and business in general. That's something to be taxed, punished. The government then received statements on the criminal tax imposed because the government is not satisfied with the sector's investments. Today, exactly because of the investment, the tax is abolished. And what an ordinary citizen should think now, which encourages investment: tax hikes, tax cuts, tax introduction or its abolition. Already common sense suggests that it would still be tax cuts. When we look at today's debates from February, many MPs tried to appeal, just as they were called, appeals for price hikes and realisation of investments in reducing its negative economic effects. But investments, business decisions depend neither on appeals nor on the orders of politicians and ministers. They depend on calculations, and that's where the calculation made this tax worse because it increased business costs. The result is therefore simply that the freezing state of investments of the telecommunications sector remained frozen in 2012. And that's how the evidence is also a request to abolish this tax. I repeat, it is good that this law is abolished, but as I have said, the abolition of it five months after the introduction reveals all regrets of economic policymaking. This sad state is seen among other things and in principle that says the world starts with those who came to power, they know best, everything that was before was wrong. However, some facts are familiar with the flow of time, some knowledge is acquired, limitations of reality are learned. Perhaps these knowledge, facts and limitations should have been known before the application of the methods and attempts and errors, which, as the Proposer points out, yields poor results. However, in our political space, there does not seem to be a lot of those who are burdened with the facts and reality of the market economy. However, the principle of the world begins with us is short but for the economy of harmful breath. The market knows neither the appeal nor the desire of politicians. In this case, it has not been five months, and the government must take a step back, and representatives of the ruling coalition argue contrary to what they said a few months ago. A few months ago, they praised the introduction of this tax, and now they have to praise its abolition. And in the meantime, as these heated debates continue, while every politician believes more in the method of trying and error than in economic knowledge, as every time it starts over, the economy collapses, investors find new destinations for their projects and time passes and time is not on our side. Another sad principle of economic policy that reveals the fate of this fee is seen in principle we will show them where under them I think of certain industries as in this case Telekom or in general all those who are more economically successful. We will show them, and we will introduce some measure that makes them less successful, which will reduce business motives, which will increase costs. We will therefore show them by taxation on Telekom, by dividend tax, by showing them the property tax, by introducing the personal responsibility of the director of business companies with limited liability, by showing them the amount of paper and subordination that needs to be shown to the state administration in order to get investment permits for the employment of new workers, and after that we will organise endless debates and wonder why there is no growth, why there are no investments, why there are no foreign investments and new jobs. Because for a long time, Croatia has repeatedly sent signals that demote such business activities, and the amount of such signals over the past six months has been particularly high. On the other hand, around us is a world where countries compete with the quality of business environment. There is also the European Union which will become a member state in a year's time, but many of our corporations have long been in the European Union, telecoms and banks and many others, and the European Union is not only a political declaration and contract, it is primarily a place where everyone is expected to understand clearly the rules of the market economy. Those rules simply say that the capital goes there, makes investments where the yield is higher, and the yield is higher where the costs are lower. And that's why these and similar selective taxes, such investments and decisions refuse. Croatian companies operating in Croatia, which are at the same time members of international business groups in these business groups, compete for resources with other companies from other Member States. Very often in such a race they lose, among other things, and because of these selective purposes, among other things, and because of principle, we will show them. Perhaps, therefore, the abolition of this law is also a sign that our government has finally realised that the tax increase and the introduction of new taxes is not an incentive for growth, perhaps this is a sign that the government has realised that taxes are detimising business activity and consumption, and detimulating business activity, detimulating investment of consumer and investment confidence is not a way to grow and recover the economy. And perhaps, therefore, the abolition of this law and the guidance that shows the direction in which growth and recovery of the economy are located. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10828	Thank you. On your exhibit, we have a correction to the incorrect allegations, Vice President Nenad Stazic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10829	The abolition of a law does not necessarily mean, according to the esteemed Martina Dalic, that the adoption of the law was wrong and unnecessary. The law can also be abolished because it has fulfilled its purpose so that it becomes unnecessary. It's just a classic example of a case like that. So the operators found themselves in doubt or paying taxes or investing. It's a message the government sent by introducing this law. When the law was introduced, the operators said we would invest well rather than pay the tax policy, the government heard that answer and therefore this law abolishes, which does not mean that it was wrong or unnecessary at the time of its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10830	Thank you. Next up for debate on behalf of SDP Representative Ivo Jelusic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10831	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with Associates. Here again this year, so after a few months we're discussing the same problem of the law that regulates compensation for me I'm going to say it easier mobile operators. We knew that we would discuss this law quickly and we brought it in for a certain time because when we brought it we knew that its lifetime was maximum until 1 July 2013 when Croatia joined the EU. Because then the law cannot survive because it does not comply with EU practice. We knew that. Therefore, we did not bring this as we thought it was a permanent solution, but we wanted to achieve two things, primarily to make mobile operators who have a lot of money to part of this money, part of this enormous profit they have invested in Croatia, invest in a better infrastructure that is not at EU level. And in doing so, by hitting on it, the fee and something to get into the budget. So why not? If funds are to be obtained in the budget, and they need for general needs, they better take those who have them than those who do not have them. And these certainly have it. And also when we passed this law, we sent a clear message to you gentlemen living well, having money, investing, investing in infrastructure, improving your services, so we won't have this tax any further. If they've listened to us, and they seem to have, this law has achieved its purpose and its duration of half a year has really made sense. I would not question the entire economic policy of the government by this law because the goal was only this and nothing else. A short while ago, counterpart Dalic attacked the entire government's economic policy on behalf of the HDZ club that there were no investments, that the maltenes were guilty of this. I don't want to get into big controversy, but the investment in Croatia has been gone for years, Croatia has been in economic trouble for years, as it has been the result of the non-government of this government for the past 6 months, but it is the result of the long-standing 8-year rule of the HDZ. Therefore, there is no investment, not because we have introduced this tax or because we are now running some poor economic policy. On the contrary, we lead it much better than it was and surely these investments will come. Well, here's the property tax he doesn't have. Even when it is and if we introduce it, we will introduce it with purpose and purpose, not to make Croatia unstimulative for investment but to tax those who have more than they need for basic life and to reduce taxes to those who are poorer. But when the time comes, we'll discuss it. But to return to this fee to mobile operators. It is true that in the EU, practice is such that there are no such fees. Since 1.07, we really couldn't have it, but it's also true that services in the EU as far as mobile operators are concerned are much better. We have one of the slowest Internets in Europe. That they invest a lot more, that the price is, for example, roaming in the EU 10, 12 times smaller than it is with our mobile operators. That's right in the EU, we don't have it. What's our status? With us, we have very high service prices, we have a low level of technical service, very little investment in telecommunications infrastructure, that operators have very high profits for last year about a billion and 600 million kuna, that if they have problems with excess people very easily fire them and deliver them to the Croatian society for care. That's the way it is with us, and we want things to be different. We want our telecommunications infrastructure to be at least the same as it is in the EU, we want to have a fast, not slow internet, we want to invest in us as much as we invest in other EU countries, we want service prices to primarily think about roaming in line with prices in the EU, and that is not the case with us. So we're not even doing this out of pure revenge, so someone's got a very high profit, so they need to step on it, they need to be taxed. We are not opposed to working successfully, but profit is the motive of every entrepreneur to work if there is no profit is the question of why we would work but we are about that profit to be at the expense of rational business, that it is the result of a rational business, not of high prices and not of investment in infrastructure. So we're not against capitalism, but we're against the soulless capitalism that's obviously happening with us right now. If by this law or by its duration of 6 months we have forced, and we are probably mobile operators to invest in infrastructure and invest more than they have ever been, this law has truly fulfilled its goal. The question arises, and if they were to do so if it hadn't been for this law, they probably wouldn't still have invested a little bit, and the high profits were exposed and they lived well, lived their management and the owners lived very well. So, we expect changes to occur, significant investments in infrastructure to occur, we expect not to let people go as lightly as they have done so far, we expect them to equalise the prices of Roma in Croatia with prices in the European Union countries, because this is the same EU practice. If the EU is a practice that there is no reward as we have now, we accept it, but also the practice that the price of rummage is as it is in the European Union, not as it is in us. So my message is to all mobile operators, if you've been making remarks, partly justified that there are no fees like this in Europe and that we've abolished them, here we have lifted them a year before we had to, and a year before we became a member of the European Union. So, as far as we're concerned, we're in the European Union, and my question is, when are you going to study? When will you act in accordance with the rules in the European Union, when will you have the price of roming such as in the European Union, when will you have such investments and such a level of technical support, such as in the European Union? So, we're in the European Union on the move are mobile operators who have been crying so much over this new fee, so we've abolished it, now you're on the move, and you're doing your part of the job right now, not waiting for 1st July 2013. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10832	Thank you. We have four corrections to your exposure to an incorrect quote. Representative Josip Djakic first called. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10833	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, it is an incorrect assumption that by abolishing this law, we force operators to invest their profits in technological progress and perfecting their centres. In fact, it's incorrect if they have to do it anyway because of the competition, they have to fire those extra people who often do it and the last round of 400 people has not even improved this law, nor have the notices of termination prevented further dismissal and will not prevent it. Only competition and investment will continue to be through them because they must achieve what is on the market in all European Union countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10834	Thank you. Next correction by Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10835	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's the incorrect quote from counterpart Jelusic that Dalic criticised the entire economic policy of the government. If that were the case, we would have some economic policy that would send this House some reforms that are important for Croatia to come out of the crisis. However, it has been half a year, we have not seen any real reforms, nothing has been addressed to the Parliament for discussion. Therefore, it is difficult to criticise at all, when such an economic policy does not exist.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10836	Thank you very much. And I agree there hasn't been any economic policy in the last few years, if that's what you mean. Next to correct the incorrect allegations by MP Martina Dalic. Here you go, Comrade Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10837	Well, I would like to correct the explicit quote of my colleague Jelusic, if we knew how this law would last no later than 1 July 2013. If we had known that, then it would have been the law, because it's not the practice of the existence of one-time laws. So this law was introduced to apply permanently, and the fact that it is abolished after 5 months only proves that the government has also learned something about reality, the world and the market around it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10838	Thank you. And another correction, representative of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10839	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd like to correct the incorrect allegations of counterpart Jelusic, who spoke about the fact that there was no investment from last government or past governments, I just want to mention last year and compare it to this year. Therefore, it clearly states in all documents that the investment potential of this government, which is indicated and presented to the public, is less than the investment potential of the last government, so in the last year of its term of office in 2011. And how much does it look like to me for about nine million kuna? And secondly, the investments that have been made so far by this government have been made by the past government. I will mention Brijuni Riviera, but also the airport, however, all of Hep's investments. And as for the note that the government has made it clear that by July 1 we will be discussing this law again, I would also like to warn that it should have been written, in the rest today it is July 2, 2012. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10840	Thank you. We have further debate on behalf of the Croatian Labour Labour Party, MP Branko Vuksic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10841	Dear Vice President, Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The law we are discussing today came into force on 01.08.2009 and was adopted as one of the anti-recession measures, which affected it, as stated by the increase in state budget revenues. Operators were obliged as they do today to pay 6% of the amount of income from SMS and MMS messages, and talks. For example, in the nine months of 2011, about 205 million kuna was merged into the state budget, and somewhere it is considered that when the law was relawed, that is, when the former government's decision was delegated, about 300 million kuna would be added to the state budget in 2012. The former government's decision said the law ceases to apply on 01.01. In 2012, however, the Kukuriku government wanted to extend it, but called it coercion or contribution. When we discussed the tax here, the Croatian Labour Party supported these, paying those 6% on SMS, MMS, messages and talks, respecting the reasons both the prime minister of the government and the first vice-president of the government. Here I will read to you what Mr Milanovic said then. The motive for the return of these taxes is fiscal, but also social and developmental, in order to bid on operators, it encourages more investment in infrastructure and lower prices to boost lower mobile telephony prices that are highest in Europe. In times of crisis, there is a need for stronger solidarity, and mobile operators in the crisis are making huge profits. And what happened? For high profits, the telecom company deserves quality infrastructure that was built in the past decades as well as the business environment that they inherited. That's what Mr Milanovic said at the time, so a few months ago. Mr. Cacic then said 300 million kunas is not big money for the state, but would be enough to save 20,000 jobs in the textile industry. What changed in those six months? Nothing's changed, it's getting worse. We're still in recession, the state is sinking, and I don't see any reason why those 6% are being lifted. We really can't be hypocritical, so let's just say, in six months, the state doesn't need money anymore, or in six months, the policy of telecommunications companies has changed. They suddenly became very conscious and will now start investing in infrastructure. It should be noted that telecommunications companies have large profits. HT had a net profit of $1.8 billion in 2011. It should also be pointed out that HT had significantly more workers 8 years ago, that HT lays off several hundred workers each year, that HT was fired in HT in March 370 workers, although I am profiting 1.8 billion kuna. It doesn't seem to matter to anyone in this country how many employees this state will have, how socially responsible the companies are. That's another reason why you didn't have to give up on the 6% charge. The telecommunications companies say that if they get 6% of their taxes cut, they'll start investing. If the 6% will not be abolished, the investment will be reduced. You should see the state of the network, say, on the islands. Croatian Telekom to the islands, I will specifically talk about one, and this island Cres 15 years has not invested a single kuna. 15 years ago, they put wires on private houses with a promise to dig up channels and set up optical cables, that they would build infrastructure. In 15 years, Hrvatski Telekom only collected profits, exported it from Croatia and strengthened Croatia's not economy but its own countries. Hrvatski Telekom fires workers. In 2000, 11300 workers were employed there. I already mentioned 370 workers were fired this year by 2014 will be under 5,000 employees employed. At the same time, Hrvatski Telekom hired 1400 students. And other companies dealing with this business mostly employ more than 60% of employees through the Employment Agency. The state never said a word about it. So this measure, which is now quite certain that it is not a clear decision of the Government, that this measure was actually taken under the pressure of the European Union, that this measure was taken under the pressure of powerful, large companies. We don't even think it's Hrvatski Telekom, we think it's Deutsche Telekom and this measure has been extorted. If we had the right to collect those 6% by 1.7 next year, which is why we're so good to these companies that don't respect workers' rights, companies that didn't invest in infrastructure, companies that buy big profits. That's why I think this decision is hypocritical because in 6 months nothing has changed, in 6 months Croatia has not left the recession. These 300 million kunas certainly need Croatia, and we will see in a year when we will discuss again some similar problems that Hrvatski Telekom and other companies dealing with the telecommunications business will not be fully invested in infrastructure but will accumulate their profits. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10842	Thank you. The next one is on behalf of the HDSSB club, Josip Salapic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10843	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President, distinguished promoters, colleagues and fellow MPs. The final proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on compensation for the provision of services in mobile electronic communications networks is before us. At the beginning of the HDSSB club, it is somewhat unusual for this law to come into force by decision of the government in 1.7.2012. The SDP Club's amendment came to the bench that the amendment law would come into effect when it was published in the National Journal, but it's a little clumsy from the government that the law comes to Parliament after the government's decision to abolish the tax on July 1st, and we MPs are gathering second today at 1400 hours to discuss this bill. This shows first of all what we are going back and back to work one unserious thing about the Croatian government versus the Croatian Parliament. And therefore, colleagues from the coalition's majority SDP club should make sure that what the government decides should at least arrive in time for representatives on the benches. About reducing the number of employees of some Croatian operators I was a witness a few days ago that in one of them waited in line for 5 hours, that workers, it was about the Croatian Telekom who worked there all day, so they absolutely can't use their time to rest, nervous people, users in line, who wait for 4, 5 hours, and the nervous ones who work. It is amazing that the number of employees is reduced to affect the income of one of the mobile operators, while at the same time people who work are falling off their feet, as well as citizens of service users. While I was standing in line, I heard that three giving up on Telekom was looking for a new operator because they had a nervous breakdown waiting in line in these big heats. Incredibly, this law has achieved its purpose within six months of its existence. If this is a good law, if it has achieved its purpose, we do not understand why a year before Croatia's entry into the EU, the law is abolished. So that we have raised enough resources from this law, that even in this time of economic and economic crisis we wanted to burden those who generate enormously high incomes on the burden of users and citizens, citizens choose their own operator whose services they will use, but that they earn big money on the burden of their users services it is also true. Well, then it's amazing that this law is abolished after six months to make some new extra investments. So far, we have not seen what investments are planned, what investments are costing, what investments are going to start, and what a new economic swing will be from abolishing these taxes 6% of mobile phone charges. It is amazing that such a law was truly great that in 6 months, it has filled the Croatian budget enough to make all citizens better alive, that it is easier for everyone and at the same time we have witnessed that every day it collects something, that the burden of the crisis is unfortunately not on those who make profit but on the burden of those who have nothing, who have little salaries, who do not work, who live on social compensation and who in this burden of crisis in Croatia live very, very hard. If this is the government's economic decision, the HDSSB Club is interested in what investments will be launched at this time of the year for Croatia's arrival in the EU and what new economic momentum will be since the tax was abolished. We believe that the burden of the crisis in Croatia must be borne evenly, that this tax should have been up to the possibility of its use, and that after Croatia enters the EU, it should also be considered that those who realise the enormous incomes that earn large profits on their business should bear a burden of business regardless of whether we have entered the EU or not. We believe that to threaten anyone, the Croatian Government, that if taxes are introduced on what has already been earned, on the burden of what has been paid, on the burden of what is seen to be profiting from several billion kunas a year is primarily unserious because we do not live in a time of economic boom and growth, Croatia has not come out of the economic crisis and some parts of our country are very hard to live. In Slavonia and Baranja, every day there is an increasing number of unemployed, agriculture stagnates, investment due to the economic crisis stops, and every day someone loses their jobs. It is amazing that this burden of this sizeable profit is being discussed that these tax cuts will bring new economic momentum and that investments will flourish in this time of Croatia's arrival in the EU. We feel that we will follow very well what the Croatian government is doing and very well what you did with this tax, and we are afraid that in about three months we may not get a new final bill to come back because we thought we thought something was wrong, so we will try again here to tax those who earn, not that the taxes and burden of the crisis go to the burden of citizens who live very, very hard today in Croatia. And what the government in the coalition announced to the SDP, HNS and partners that by the coming of the coalition to power, Croatia will flourish and this is one of the laws of a colleague and colleague who speaks contrary to what you have announced. And we expect from the Croatian government that in this way the burden of the crisis, the burden of poor economic policy is not on the burden of people, citizens and citizens of Croatia living hard. The HDSSB club, this law that we consider primarily unusual, the time of adoption, the way we adopt unnecessary ones, we will not support and we will vote against this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10844	Thank you. This is what ended the club debate. We're moving on to an individual debate of 10 minutes. First came in from a representative named Mirela Holy. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10845	Thank you, Vice President. At the very beginning of the debate on the final draft law on the termination of the Law on compensation for the provision of services in mobile electronic communications networks, I would like to say that I will support this bill. This law abolishes the 6% fee on telecom services in mobile networks, so I hope that this will lead to so much needed reductions in the prices of telecom services in mobile networks that are now but also for the years of one of the most expensive in all of Europe. What I am dissatisfied with is the fact that despite the high prices of these services in Croatia, investments in the modernisation of the networks are lagging behind. This is particularly worrying when it comes to the fact that the market for telecommunications services is extremely important for the development of any country. In Croatia, the telecom market has long functioned as a monopoly or we had only one operator, then we have a duopoly for several years, and only with the arrival of the third operator Tele2 can we talk about the start of market liberalisation. However, the situation of liberalisation of this market in Croatia is still not balanced with the growth of the importance of the mobile telecom sector for the overall economy of Croatia, and in order to do so, it is necessary, apart from significantly greater responsibilities of telecom companies and strengthening the role of H-COM as regulatory agencies as well as market protection agencies that need to ensure the right conditions for competitiveness growth. The establishment of a well-organised competitive mobile telecom market is a fundamental prerequisite for achieving standards that apply in developed EU countries, as well as for raising the technological and information standards of developed countries of the world. Unfortunately, although we have more mobile telecom operators and service providers in Croatia today, it is unquestionably a fact that some operators and greater market power but also in other ways are privileged and this is not a good environment for a fair competition, but also for raising standards and modernising services. The H-COM regulatory agency itself explains that the liberalised telecommunications market enables investment to invest in the telecom network and introduce new services to increase the number of telecommunications operators and provide services that compete and thus raise the quality of services, and that the progress of telecommunications is seen from greater availability, speed and better quality. Not only is the emergence of competition and but the introduction of more advanced and cheaper technological achievements increases the quality of the telecommunication services provided and lowers the price for the same or similar services that telecommunications service users and also the economy that has been looking forward to more advanced technologies for quite a long time. Mobile telecom networks around the world are one of the most promising economic operators. In fact, the number of users of mobile network services is growing throughout the world, along with a parallel drop in revenue and the number of users in fixed networks. According to the 2010 H-COM regulator, the comparison of the density of mobile network users in Croatia with EU countries shows that we are above the EU average and has greatly contributed to the entry of a third mobile operator into the Croatian market, i.e. a drastic reduction of service prices in mobile telecommunications networks. In early 2007, Croatia had almost 4.5 million mobile network subscribers, with market penetration exceeding 100%. Today, a large number of internet users in Croatia are also connected from mobile networks, which will also be a more dominant trend. The total number of Internet users worldwide shows a trend of rapid growth in Croatia as well. Unfortunately, when it comes to a wide-ranging approach, we still do not have the desired broad-ranging competitiveness compared to the EU countries. In 2009 access to mobile networks was relatively modest 9.3% in Croatia. Since the telecom industry in Croatia is being slow, but it still changes from the starting state of the monopoly to the state of competition, the need to protect competition is also increasing, and this is the key co-operation between HACOM as a telecom regulator and the Competition Agency. Unfortunately, HACOM is still not what should be an independent regulator, and an impartial and objective regulator is a key factor in promoting and maintaining competition in the telecom industry, which leads to cheaper and more quality services, which is extremely important. Why do I claim that HACOM is not an independent regulator? Because, despite the growing number of operators and service providers, there is still an operator or operators that are market-privileged and the regulatory agency must be an efficient mediator or mediator in managing access to network resources. The liberalisation of the market is unquestionably leading to greater efficiency in the telecom sector. The telecommunications market must be properly regulated both in the field of services and in the area of infrastructure. This must enable HACOM, i.e. the State. Operators cried for a long time that the obstacles to their investments in modernising the network of fees that will soon be as we discuss today, go back to history and the irregularities on the telecom market. One obstacle fell off, the other is working, and now companies need to prove that they meant seriously when the obstacles detected in the abovementioned reasons, i.e. that the real reasons were not only hunger for the naked profit. Time will soon show with or without the blessing of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10846	Thank you. The next one for an individual debate came from Franjo Lucic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10847	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's when we talk about this law that only in five months has experienced its 100% change then we certainly have to worry all of us here who raise our hands for or against. What to tell the citizens why five months ago we were so heartily advocating this same law where we said we wanted to force potential investment operators where nothing happened in these five months because we were talking about additional revenues of 300 million total revenues on the basis of the year where we had already distributed these assets and revenues into certain items. And today, after five months, we're saying that it's not good, that we need to change that law, and again, all of you who spoke praises about this new law five months ago, and these 6% extra taxation today, you have to speak differently. Indeed, it is hypocritical to tell the people of the Republic of Croatia who will indeed find it difficult to understand, but they have realized for the past six months that all demagogue decisions and rhetoric spoken in this Parliament do not contribute to the development of the economy but essentially harm the development of the economy. We in HDZ have just said that the introduction of this 6% tax is just frozen investment, that the more expensive services we will have are and that the adoption of this law will not be prosperity for the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In vain, 300 million kuna was planned because it is now evident that for 300 million kuna you will have less revenue in the state budget. And the question is, where are we going to make up for that 300 million kuna, especially when you're based on the long-term adoption of this law? Of course they're not small funds. If we know that some other items of income that will not be incomed into the state budget were planned, then the question is how will we be able to respect all that we have imagined and that we have raised our hands at the level of the state budget? Until yesterday, we know that Telekom was one of the main operators in the Republic of Croatia and that he was in fact without Vipnet, without Tele2 one monopoly company headed by Mr. Mudrinic, who boasted at the end of the year with extremely good results. And I'm asking you respected friends who wouldn't know how to be such a successful manager in such a company if you were without competition and what our people said was yelling and naked skin with a price because there was no competition at the time. Today, when he received competition in Vipnet, Tele2 and tomorrow, perhaps in some other networks here, the colleague also said that there was a significant reduction in the price of the service, but that by abolishing this tax, we expect that in Croatia he will also receive appropriate European roaming prices. Dear friends, I'm sure it won't be here for long and this is just a public deception, but most consumers and users of these services. What do we really want with these 6%? My colleague Mirela Holly herself spoke and we will be wondering if it is a European Union directive or if it is something else. I'm afraid this is some sort of agreement between individuals, but the arrangements that are certainly damaging at this point to the government of the Republic of Croatia's budget. They're hurting all those investments that were supposed to be made out of these revenues, and today, for some of the arrangements, we're cutting off that tax that we said five months ago so heartily advocated. We ask ourselves, is a billion and 800 million kuna to get an operator in Croatia not enough? Do they need an additional increase in profits, and at the same time they need to invest as little as possible? Until yesterday, we listened to the last year when we were talking about the economic crisis in Croatia, Mr. Mudrinić announced additional layoffs in the Croatian Telekom or his company 300, 400 people as well. And it is through all these layoffs over the past years that the greater the profit they gain and the better they do, the less they need Croatian workers. Is it the same in other EU countries or is it only in Croatia? At the same time, we do not know how and in what way they would equate not only to these operators in telecommunications but also to all major trade chains, while at the same time pulling out a profit that does not remain in Croatia, which is not reinvested and of which this Croatian citizen has absolutely no use at all. We also mention here in the new laws that we will have today or in the past days, or in due course, various taxes, property taxes, will be passed. So, dear friends, if we are going to discuss additional taxes and taxes, I ask you how and in what way will the economy develop in Croatia, and especially in this difficult situation when fighting and fighting the battle for the survival of each existing job, not to open a new job, but to ask the question of how and how to keep the job existing and not to speak of it. Are these stimulating measures for the economy? Is that how we're going to make more of the flats sold? Is that how we hire more people? We won't be safe. And I don't understand why and in this amended law that we're discussing today, we're looking for a suspension when we were so warmly defending him five months ago? Do we not need funds in the budget, and at the same time the question is just how many deficits are we going to end up with at the end of the year? Therefore, not to mention the general tax law that is ahead of us, which is also detimulative. So I think this is really the demagogue move of the government, and at the same time today you're saying it's a good move, and five months ago you said it differently. I'm sure these measures don't contribute to the development of the economy, but all of this puts us back in step. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10848	Thank you very much. We have a correction of an incorrect quote and a single replica. Correction first, Damir Mateljan came forward. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10849	Well, I would correct Mr. Lucic's incorrect claim when he says this law is demagoguely hypocritical. He is only pragmatic, and demagogue is hypocritical when Mr Lucic speaks negatively for Mr. Mudrinic on behalf of HDZ. It's demagogue hypocritical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10850	Thank you. Replica was reported by representative Zeljko Kolar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10851	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I've picked up a replica because a colleague can respond if he feels the need. Well, it's incorrect, in fact, to quote Mr. Columbo that the services were collected in the meantime. That is not true, services are cheap and minority every month comes out some new option for users to get cheaper services. So that's just not true. The second thing, the government's message is very clear. We were not satisfied with the number of investments in the past period and 6% was introduced. When it's said to be an investment, it's abolished. To say that after five months, the law changes, so you've worked twice a month on the state budget. For what? Because you thought it was good. The government also now believes after 5 months that the conditions for this change have been met. And as for Mr. Mudrinic, he's your frame. He was a minister in the HDZ government, so you could influence him or get an education with you, and then he went to work in telecommunications. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10852	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Agent Franjo Lucic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10853	Look, buddy, I wasn't talking about collecting back 15 days, a month, two months, I'm talking about some general gatherings because the price pick-up went all the way to as long as the competition didn't come. I said nice that they were peeling our naked skin with prices and at the same time boasting with great results, that same Mr. Mudrinic at the end of the year. And it's not good that we're making this decision in five months to praise him first, now we're cramming him again, we're returning him, and we're saying again how good that is. Well, it's not good. We're running out of 300 million kuna. Why are we bringing this? He says so they can invest. So that Croatian telecom and all these VIPnet and TELE 2 and I don't know what they have to invest every year to survive and to keep their technology that changes today from month to month, and not year to year, at one high level. Well, they have to invest, and now, like them, we're ending 6% to make them invest. Don't tell me.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10854	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Representative Josip Boric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10855	Dear Vice President, fellow MPs. Well, here's what I'm going to do in my debate. I'm going to try and take a look at this bill for myself. I believe that colleagues on the left are mistaken when they tell the story that this law is being passed to eliminate those 6% and to free the money for the investment cycle. This law was passed on 21 January 2012 at the 3rd session of the Croatian Parliament. The fourth session is now under way, and she's right, colleague Dalic, when she said this might be a champion among the laws that lasted only one assembly session. When we passed this law, then the government wrote in an explanation why it is being passed, that the reason for the adoption of this law is a significant fiscal effect which will ensure regular inflow of funds into the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. This law should not have a significant impact on population standards since it is not the category of consumption that serves the basic needs of life and should not have a negative impact on the development of the electronic communications networks and services market. The analysis found that by applying the proposed law, the revenues of the state budget from that fee would amount to around 300 million kuna per year. Now all after a few, I say months and one session of the Assembly, the reason is this, this law should affect the reduction in the burden of services which are subject to payment, indicating compensation which gives the possibility to reduce the prices of these services. This law should have a positive impact on the investments of mobile electronic communications network operators as well as on the promotion of foreign investment in the Republic of Croatia. So in the first adoption, the reason for the urgency of the procedure was the fiscal effect, and now the expected investment cycle of the operator. When we in HDZ warned that the law was not passed, because it would affect investment, burden the economy and the ordinary citizen, the previous government had limited it by its law. By the end of 2011, it was returned to the left that the law must be passed because it must be taken big when it can't be small. The goal is to fill the state register and the amount of about 300 million kuna. What was the effect of this law, here I will try through several data available via the Internet, data from the Croatian Telecom for 2010 163 million kuna based on the law, for 2011. 145 million kuna and the first quarter of 2012. 21 million kuna. Compared to the first quarter of last year when 34 million kunas were paid under the law. Which would mean at the level of this year there were around 85 million kunas, almost twice as much as in 2010. They clearly show that this recession has done its part and that the pressing of all the legal acts brought by this authority to citizens' pockets has done its part. Through larger directors, for electricity, for water, for gas, through larger VAT and which is the most difficult through the biggest gas prices in history. He changed Croatia's citizens' habits deeply, and that's what the data shows. The fact is that they were that famous statement by the first Deputy Prime Minister when he told them to make less phone calls so that you could pay bigger bills for electricity, that they did so a lot, long before it was said. My personal opinion is that regardless of all these explanations that we may hear here today that the greatest and most accurate thinking that this law did not like the European Commission is because it does not comply with European laws. But I'm saying the government has obviously come up with a way to replace this, but through another act, sublegal acts, the Regulation on amendments and the addition of the rules on payment of fees for the right to use the address, numbers and radio spectrum, which prescribes the introduction of so-called. digital dividends. In this way, it increases the authorisation operators to use, the radio spectrum from current 0.5% to 5% of the total annual gross income of the operator. Which in some ways compensates for this measure. The operators, of course, jumped to it and said the measure through that rule would be more expensive than these 6% and, of course, the measure would ultimately be paid by Croatian citizens. I personally welcome the abolition of the tax, even if this mobile, because every discharge of Croatian citizens at this time or economy is a big step, no matter what I say sometimes, it doesn't seem that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10856	Thank you, too. We have a replica of your exposure. Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10857	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. So I would just like to say that it is very clear that this is not really about anything else but about what was said in a slightly different way by the distinguished representative Boris, which is that the government ran with one decision, and then on the European Union's package it must be withdrawn. Because if that wasn't the case then it would mean giving up what was previously declared, which is that he's giving up quoting, "Take big and help small," which means that it would probably take away a small one and help the big one, but I don't think that's the case here. It should also be made very clear that when it comes to investment, investments will be almost everything from imports and they will actually not help the Croatian economy, the medium, small economy that we say all the time that I have to encourage. It's actually going to be all practically from imports and actually this tax reduction, if there's any change in prices at all, and I don't think it's going to happen, it's just going to mean one relief to the big ones, and the little one's absolutely nothing going to help. This will have no positive impact on the reduction of public prices. It is therefore a demagogue floscule, and very soon it will be seen that it is indeed so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10858	Thank you, too. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure have expired time for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. We're continuing an individual debate. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10859	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. All this time there has been a lot of debate, which is also the subject of the law itself, whether, what economic implications were first adopted and now the abolitions. Therefore, special, special fees for providing services in mobile electronic communications networks. I'll talk about it a little bit later. However, I would also like to say that the greater value of all these speculations that have been opened here, and both of them, on the same side, is shown by demagogy. So now he's wondering, so now we can ask what's there then, actually, demagogy, but most importantly here is one, one message that the government is showing, and that's a political message. That she has and that it is her duty as state, that every government has all the mechanisms regardless of what kind of corporation it is and whether it is protected by a directive of the European Union. Because it's ultimately her responsibility. We enjoyed the past, so we see how far this has led us, to a lack of politics, and we have had a lot of politics. And we won't talk about policy abuse now, let the courts handle it. So the state and the government moved away from their responsibility, declaring themselves uninterested and incompetent. In certain matters, and mostly when it was done to restrain those who had spread out and who had created a great injustice not only because they were, because they were just allowed to do so because everyone was acting the way they could and how they could behave. In this way, the state has shown that there are ways and there are instruments and that every government has only a question of whether or not it wants to be used. But what good is it, then, that what is the rule of government? Laws, bill proposals, first of all, not to mention other acts and only that. But what we used to be here was that the government was probably serving something that the public didn't have the opportunity to see at the time, but the public scene was being ruled by cry and appeal, so we had the impression that we were in some kind of religious institution, and not in the very state where big corporations prayed first not to raise their prices, they were buying prices to end it. Then, through the merchants and the end of the mandate, they welcomed the cry of the bakers not to collect the prices, to increase the prices of their products. But, behold, no one listened to them alive. And why would he? But surely there was another way to contain, say, the price and to achieve the same effect. Now I want to say something about this, about the bill itself. We see by the opposition that this bill is being attacked as it was being attacked for the same reasons and just passing the law. But now we have one weird thing. Now at this very moment, one is attacking the law, attacking its abolition, and one is attacking its original adoption. Therefore, it is obviously a matter of indiscretion yet, so it is unknown even though counterpart Dalic has made it clear that she supports the adoption of this bill. There has been a lot of dilemma about it, that is to say, in its debate whether it was done under the European Union directive itself or because we really are, what the government really believed in the telecommunications sector that it really intends to do something in the investment itself. First of all, it was not a secret that money, the one that collected one part of this fee and filled the state budget, and there is the right European Union, which is why we originally went with such a bill, and what they criticise and what they have criticised today is that these funds are filled with the state budget. Yes, the state budget is charged. And they say and there's no investment in infrastructure. However, the state does not have direct mechanisms, but it is always responsible and should not run away from it and therefore the government has had so many meetings with the representatives of the telecommunications sector with all other jobs just then and only then, so not in a very nice word when they have adopted their plans, concrete plans and investment documentation then started to change, i.e. in such a proposal to amend the law. And I absolutely believe that if it doesn't happen again and we won't be ashamed to introduce such a fee. We say the European Union, we say the European Commission. I think that the time, especially at the end of the mandate of this ruling set, and Europe is dominant in the European Commission and in the European Parliament, should be very precise and say the ruling conservatives in the European Commission and in the European Union. Many laws would look different, and many things in particular where social democracy is in power will have greater opportunities just as certain things happen in the European Commission. That's for sure. And to finish my debate. That's what many colleagues have said whether it's a government or a position, and that's what I think and I think it's the first moment we can all notice and what we need to be the starting point to act in that direction, and that's what we all see, that in the Middle Ages the main buildings that bounced from all the other buildings were churches. Today these are buildings that bounce from all other buildings, whether they're physical persons for housing or whether they're state institutions. The state institutions and their buildings next to those in which they are sitting, where the headquarters of such corporations as the telecommunications sector are, and to mention the financial sector, are also new cathedrals that precisely because of the accumulation of huge capital require such a position. I think that's the end of the bargain. Not just one general dissatisfaction in such behaviour is witnessed in particular in times of crisis here but also in Europe, as well as around the world, as well as the movements that are going after it promise, and ultimately require politicians, especially from the authorities of this nature to act in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10860	Thank you. We have three replicas reported for your hearing. First, a colleague, Branko Vuksic, signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10861	Well, something was confusing to you, too, and it's confusing to me. You said the opposition attacked when you introduced this fee and now that you've abolished this fee, which is not true. Part of the opposition supported you. I know that you consider only the HDZ opposition and that you only negotiate with them on certain matters. But we're the opposition. We have supported you in this, and now we are against it, because the purpose has not been fulfilled. You've listened to big corporations and you're obeyers of Brussels, nothing else. They say a reduction in telephone services, that there will now be fewer services and that there will be more investment. There will be no less service or higher investment. When tourists from Sweden come in the zone of Croatian telecommunications companies, then it rings their alarm, not phone from Croatia because they are disastrous prices. We are one of the most expensive nations in that. Is it said what they're going to invest in? Is it said when they're going to invest? Is it said what if you don't invest in network development? You said the government has all the mechanisms and it's a political message, if you won't invest, then we will. It's not a political message, because if it were a political message, and if this government had all the mechanisms, then it would have resisted the resignations, then there would have been half the number of workers. That's where telecommunications companies are all the time mobbing over workers, being fired, illegally employed. No one's responding. Therefore, there is no political message. The political message is what we're talking about right now in the Parliament, but the executive power is absolutely certain that it does not do its job but favours large capital.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10862	Thank you. We have an answer to your replica of Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10863	Well, I'm not going to the wider part that you've expanded for that there's no need, but for what you've said very specifically here's that the government is simply a listener to the European Commission, the EU as a whole, and that is why it makes this proposal a law. If that were the case, she would not have passed a law imposing a service compensation because she was perfectly aware and then a directive, but precisely that there is no such compensation anywhere in Europe. However, we have been leading right now and then and I would agree with you and that is one of the biggest problems, so we are not yet a country that has entered the EU and these prices are that we do not speak both of the capital and the interest itself and these services provided by our telecommunications sector are the most expensive. So what you're saying is that we don't see any reason or believe in them, that's not true. Specific plans have been made by the cooperatives themselves, complete documentation. Of course it's always possible and it's possible to play it, but I believe the government will find a way to talk seriously again and how it feels about serious partners.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10864	Thank you. Next replica, Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10865	Mr. Vice President. Well, I have to admit, I am a little confused with the allegations that a right party dictatorship is actually taking place in the European Parliament and the European Commission. It seems to me that such a claim for the speaker of this House is, at the very least, strange, especially if a similar logic were applied to this Parliament, and I think it would be good to give up such claims at the very least, or at least be very, very careful when we say them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10866	Thank you. We have an answer to your replica Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10867	Well, that's the alphabet of a fellow politician and you probably know that this group dominates, but here you see all the choices in our environment saying that that's not going to be the way it's going to be. And in the end, if you follow a little bit more, then I'm also unhappy that those attitudes haven't been articulated before, but they're articulated now. So just follow what Mr. Spodboda said when he spoke very critically about one part of the policy and certain legal solutions directly addressing Mr. Barroso. So here I was just going to say about it, because even when people have a skepticism when they tell us it's a dictatorship from the EU, so now the EU is a little bit in agreement with all those who are guilty of such events and whose action or inaction has led to these catastrophic consequences, is it, Mr. Dear Reiner, that this crisis is no extraterrestrial phenomenon, but it is the result of the action of such a predominant policy which, for the first time, I would say, is seeing my lack. Moreover, for the first time, strong voices have appeared in Europe to show their guilt and who caused the crisis, or whose actions.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10868	Thank you. We have another replica of representative Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10869	Well, Reverend Vice President. I really don't understand what demagogy is. We've heard that from this proposal it means we've abolished 6%, they've brought in meaning operators have brought in their business plans, we're going to build something, and I've listed a rule that will come into effect after the debate, where at the same time the compensation increases from 0.5% to 5% of the total gross operator's income. Now I don't understand how we're going to find out? Through this law we took less from them, the operators say even this law is more favourable to them for investment than this rule. And now we're listening to the story of demagogy. Here I'd like to be explained, because what happens when the rule book comes into force? Will the operators with these plans go away? Are we going to invest or was this kind of better then? And who's the demagogue here?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10870	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, MP Mladen Novak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10871	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Deputy. We all listened to fairy tales when we were kids, but it seems like we're listening to them again. I don't know why this joined me first on the Pinocchio fairy tale, but since he's already mentioned quite a few times in these political turmoil, I'm not going to be attached to any fairy tale characters, but what we're hearing here is quite a fairy tale. Or we can say that that's what 100 times repeated untruth is expected to eventually become true. So we heard here today that the operators said we'd rather invest than pay taxes. I'd like to see a list of these future investments that were caused by this deduction from this tax. Then it is said, the law has fulfilled its purpose and is not abolished because it is bad or missed. Well, a few of us here have been able to have any encounters with colleagues from the German Parliament where we've been ordered to say what's waiting for the tax to be abolished, is that it definitely has to be done. So to lie to yourself, and obviously this is an attempt to find some alibi for itself that it's not pressure under such a corporation, under such a world-class power as Deutsche Telekom, but that's our good will, it's a pure fairy tale. Then it is said here to take those who have, and not those who do not, and the best evidence for this is the increase in VAT, the collection of electricity and gas prices, but also the fact that citizens are suggested to have fewer phones so they will have more for electricity. The assumption probably that citizens have more, since the message is to the mind of those who have, and that Deutsche Telekom with these billions and something less. It is also said, we expect them to invest in infrastructure, we expect them to leave lightly for the people. It's not true that we expect, we pray to them, it's the sincerest. Please don't do that, and we don't have the instrument to stop them from doing anything. The proof that this was all done together is such an audible, that it was expected that there would be no such resistance from the master and the amendment that we are getting today signed by the president of the SDP's Club of Representatives on this same text. But even that is not controversial, but it is contentious that we are discussing this text, we are getting an amendment to the largest coalition partner in the government and we are discussing a law that we will vote on Friday to take effect yesterday. Well, isn't that just one paradox and proving the strength of those who have power? Someone here said that the law when it was a replica, the law wasn't bad, but the law was pragmatic. I fully agree with that, he's pragmatic because pragmatic to admit that someone is stronger, that's also smart. Better than winning a beating, say ok he's stronger, I admit and I retire. I must also refer to the speech of my colleague, Boric, who said that I welcome this law because it is about tax discharge. Now for that same reason we don't greet him because that tax discharge doesn't apply to citizens, this is the tax discharge of whoever has the most and who's strongest and we definitely can't support it. And I still have to look back at something here that was here at the end, shooting even at the European level, European social democracy and European right-wing, or democracies, and we are also calling on Mr. Freedom, or the manifesto, and that same manifesto says that social democracy has full responsibility because it has done nothing for years for what the democrats did. But worst of all, in that story of ours, what this social democracy has done for years is exactly what European social democracy has been doing, so shut up and don't do anything and there's no difference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10872	Thank you, too. We have a replica of your presentation, Representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10873	Dear colleague, here you mentioned the dictatorship of right-wing men in the European Union and someone mentioned it earlier could be said the same thing about the left-wing dictatorship in the Croatian Parliament. It is true and here it is dictated, laws are passed without asking what the opposition means, without respecting opposition. You said they were all fairy tales. Yeah, they're fairy tales, they're fairy tales. Yes, you wanted to show power, but you show power and muscle only on our opposition, you don't show power and muscle to those where you should. You are not protecting the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but protecting the interests of large capital. Mr. Ivica Mudrinic earns monthly if bonuses are included 140 thousand kuna per month. So he was rewarded with 140 thousand kunas or 20 thousand euros, and I believe that's not all he gets, because he gives good zmits to Croatian citizens. If we saw that the most expensive telephony is fixed and wireless telephony in Croatia which we did not show power and said that we will not take off the tax until they do something. No, but we joined together and did not take off the 6% burden by trusting Ivica Mudrinić, who proved all along that he was not working in the interests of Croatia but working in the interests of Deutsche Telekom, working in the interests of Croatian citizens, but working in the interests of Deutsche Telekom. Therefore, what we say about the right-wing dictatorship in the European Union, the left-wing dictatorship in Croatia can be a sign of equality.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10874	Thank you. We have another application, MP Domagoj Ivan Milosevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10875	Yeah, that'll be a great answer to what we just heard. Good afternoon, dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament and distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and deputy finance minister with associates. Well, first of all, a man who has asked himself once whether we all live in the same century, and it was difficult to listen to the many flossules that we have heard about investments today because first of all I think we have to agree that in this century, and thank God and in this place in our country no longer determines who, how and where in the private sector, will invest than private, domestic and foreign entrepreneurs decide. And the key function of the state will be in this century, which is to create an atmosphere or a business environment to make as much investment as possible and employ as many people as possible, and it will contribute neither force nor violence, but solely motivation and stimulation of these same entrepreneurs. It should also be said in these six months in fact a large majority of what the left government has proposed, and unfortunately our Croatian Parliament has made there are fewer and fewer investments. So, of course, will continue, and also this current law is the ultimate proof that this left government has no plan or strategy when it comes to extracting Croatia from the economic crisis and, in fact, the ultimate evidence is also inconsistencies, and in this respect, since here a few months ago we had the opportunity to listen to the arguments of the Law on Profit Tax, the Law on dividends, those laws which should also motivate Croatian entrepreneurs both domestic and foreign to invest. Certainly, it cannot happen that if you pass a law that is retroactive, such as the dividend tax, that you motivate both domestic and let alone foreign investors that you are just trying to bring to Croatia to actually come to Croatia. I think that everyone in this high Croatian home should or should become aware that those of whom we expect and swear to foreign investment and attract foreign investors to our country, those on the map, as well as telecoms, of course, on the map of their investments look at the whole of Europe and the whole world, compare the conditions for investment, compare where they are welcome, where laws and tax laws do not change from year to year, or as in this case or otherwise, up to four years. And not only that, you should be aware that global investors, and these are those guys who receive 140 thousand euros not kuna, in some other countries went to the same colleges, so those industries that we want to attract, which is production, we want to say that in Croatia, one of the first production cars or some other large production that is exclusively intended for exporting these guys. In fact, they also communicate with each other not only at European level, but at global level, so if God does, to start talking about our country as a investment destination, then they exchange experiences. So let's be serious and be aware of what we're talking about, we're entering the largest, in a year's time the largest single market, that's the EU market. It's where big companies really work, globalized. Some of them, I hope, that in the next year not only after we join the EU, will invest in Croatia, hire Croatian citizens and I think we should be aware of this and we should act in this direction, so of course we should propose laws that will motivate and stimulate investors. Both domestic and foreign to invest in our country and create new jobs, not with laws like this. And especially by amending the laws incredibly fast, in fact to demote and reject them and even in the extreme line and push Croatian investors out of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10876	Thank you, too. Before we begin with the replicas of your presentation, I owe the replica to my colleague, Igor Češek, for the debate of Mladen Novak. Excuse my colleague, Czech Republic, or caution.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10877	Oh, thank you, nothing. Here's how there's no colleagues from Novak I hope his club representatives will pass it on to him. He was talking about fairy tales. It's not the fairy tale he was talking about, it looks more like a comic strip to me where he's the main anti-hero superhick protagonist who takes away the poor and gives to the rich. It takes away the poor through an increase in VAT prices, through an increase in energy prices, an increase in toll prices, and gives rich lower rates, i.e. by abolishing such tax rates. This is really sad, probably all citizens are disappointed with this kind of policy by the government of the Republic of Croatia itself. They were expecting a social government, but they received a large capital government whose only interest is to meet large-scale fish in the Republic of Croatia and to serve them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10878	Thank you too, colleague. At the presentation of counterpart Domagoj Ivan Milosevic, we have one correction of the incorrect quote and 4 replicas. Col. Marin Jurjevic, correction of the incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10879	Thank you. It is an incorrect quote from fellow Milosevic that this government has no plan. The truth is, this government has no plan to rob its own people, it's true that this government has no plan to bag, to enrich 200 selected families while the people rot. That's true, fellow Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10880	Thank you. Four replicas, first enlisted representative Martina Dalic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10881	Thank you very much. Well, a fellow Milosevic mentioned among other things in his presentation the action of a newly introduced dividend tax. Well, yes, it's interesting to see the action of the newly introduced dividend tax and the message sent with that tax. As the dividend tax was introduced, the contribution from the investment was not taxed on interest or on similar incomes, then its message is clear. Invest in government securities and deposits in banks because it is not taxed, and do not invest in business activity because what you earn, what dividends it will tax. In addition, the double tax avoidance contracts regulate that these dividends are taxed against the percentages that are recorded there. So 12% of dividend taxes apply exclusively to domestic entrepreneurs, those who are domestically in Austria 0%. To those who are domiciled in Germany 5% dividend tax. So one incentive to another incentive and the result is economic indicators that we monitor and read every day.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10882	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10883	First of all, I think that the citizens of our country expect, first of all, that this government, and with the support of the Croatian Parliament, will allow us to live better, that we will not constantly and continuously discuss the past, and even some long and decades ago, rather than finally hear some answers as to how this left government really thinks, which we have never heard before.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10884	Thank you. Next replica, Branko Vuksic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10885	Dear fellow Milosevic, the state does not only create an atmosphere for industry, for economy, it also intervenes. Just remember how she intervened and when she was called at the time of this biggest crisis and all the crises that are reporting. The largest one is actually a flossula that is heard by many capitalists that the market is self-regulatory. That's not true. There's no self-regulatory market. The capitalists often order we'll take care of everything, and you stay out of it. Where is it, let's show me, and when is and what period in social order, where, in which country, in which historical stage was it? Where guys have 140,000 euros in salaries there and those little guys have 2,000 euros in salaries. Therefore, do not, when comparing one, compare the other. Glorifying globalisation is no longer in, it's absolutely not in, read the recent literature and you'll see that more and more people who suspect the free market are in the globalisation of this type. And you certainly know, because you're in business, that the free market was created by abolishing the grain law in the British Parliament, and you know the consequences that it had, and that law, when the grain law was abolished, did not intend to make it better for people than to create as much profit as possible. Today we're in those positions from 180 years ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10886	Thank you, too. We have a reply to the replica, Domagoj Ivan Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10887	Thank you. So I did not glorify globalisation but I realized that we must be careful and open especially given what we are all looking forward to soon becoming a full member of the EU. And as for... The government does not need to intervene, nor did I say that, however, I said that the government should intervene in the right way and in the right direction and on the basis of the right smart strategy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10888	Thank you. Next replica, Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10889	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a fellow Milosevic you've determined exactly that in this debate there's been a lot of demagogy. One such assessment was that here all this would be fine if the Socialists were in power in Europe, if there were more socialist governments and more socialist commissioners in the European Commission, and we forgot that this commission where the Democrats have the majority had just managed to lower the prices of the Roma, so probably it's very bad for our colleagues on the left, they would like to see higher prices of the Roma and that such decisions come from Brussels from the Commission. But of course they forgot, when they're talking about operators, teleopers in Croatia, that one of the largest companies actually has Austrian capital, and in Austria is ruled by Socialists. So I am convinced that colleague Ingrid Antičević goes straight to Vienna's socialist friends to convince them to make a voluntary contribution to the Croatian budget and to solve all our problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10890	Thank you, too. Next replica Natalija Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10891	Well, here's Honorable Representative Milosevic, these lectures of yours about competitiveness and attracting investment in Croatia are simply amazing. Given that you have had almost 8 years to show you know how to attract and attract investments, and the result is that Croatia is one of the lowest-ranking countries in a more competitive and wider environment. And this government is just implementing laws and measures to change that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10892	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Ivo Milosevic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10893	By 2011, the government's work to conclude that it was indeed fourfold foreign investments in 2011 compared to 2010. If you haven't noticed around the world, especially in Europe, investments have fallen, so it is logical that this has also been reflected in Croatia over the past years.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10894	Thank you. We have exhausted the registered speakers, or no more reports. Deputy Minister, please be final.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10895	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. I thank you for today's debate on this bill on the final proposal to abolish teleoperate fees. From your own debate today, we have seen that this is an area that, as we say, can be a powerful industry one that can stimulate economic development. Is as soon as there's this kind of noise about lifting a fee on a particular branch, and let's just say that we've heard different lobbyings here. It means that we are, therefore, in one area where the Government of the Republic of Croatia considers that there is great potential, and that this is exactly how we have to say that there was a temporary stable fiscal character. That we will be monitoring and partnering with teleoperators in investing where we will try to be corrective in those areas, not to invest only in those areas that are high, and to say profitable for such industries. That we will lead, try to be a partner where we will actually be teleoperators, where we have seen today that from a monopoly, this kind of develops towards competition, to invest in those areas of the Republic of Croatia that are less developed, in which they currently have no interest. As you yourself know, they mostly when they come into the interest of investing in the city of Zagreb. So where the volume economy is concerned, however, the interest in other areas within the Republic of Croatia has not shown so much about investment. We've actually tried to show with this intention, in fact, that we want a proactive investment policy and that we're going to follow what you said, which here has been indicated that there are investment plans. So they exist, they're on the Minister of Transport's desk. So we will be active in monitoring and developing information and telecommunications activities. We believe that they can be an incentive to develop small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, but certainly in one partner relationship, it means where there is no extra profit, where there is no extra monopoly, which they pay ultimately for Croatian citizens, but that the information and telecommunications network in the Republic of Croatia is developing evenly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10896	Thank you, too. To conclude the debate, we'll vote when the conditions are met. We're going to vote. Final draft law on the termination of the Law on compensation for the provision of services in mobile electronic communications networks, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 104. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the SDP Representatives' Club. I ask the Government's representative, the Proposer, to declare the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10898	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The amendments are accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10899	Thank you very much. They become an integral part of the bill. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, and we don't. Let's go with our hands. Thank you very much. Please raise your hand and let us know who's in. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Does anyone have any abstentions? Thank you very much. I note that most votes have been adopted by the Law on the termination of the Law on compensation for the provision of services to mobile electronic communications networks in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. 108 for and 8 against. We are now moving forward on the agenda, under point: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Special Taxes on Personal Cars, and other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft, emergency procedure, first and second reading, CZ. No. 103 The draft law is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill of law into the boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings. You may submit amendments until the end of the debate in accordance with Article 164(4). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the draft law was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Tourism. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the Government of the Republic of Croatia's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Minister of Finance Boris Lalovac. Here you are, dear Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10901	I would like to thank the Honorable Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The law on special taxes on private cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft shall regulate the payment of specific taxes on passenger cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft imported or sold in the Republic of Croatia and on the transport of used passenger cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft that buy or acquire legal or natural persons in the Republic of Croatia. An existing state in a short time. A special tax shall be paid on all vessels imported, produced or delivered, other than vessels intended for economic activity, such as transport and rental. The special tax holders are importers and producers. There is no specific tax on vessels in force in the Republic of Croatia. Something similar has Greece and Romania. Croatia would be uncompetitive in the area of the production of the vessel as well as in keeping the vessel, registration in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. The impact analysis estimated that the specific tax on vessels does not achieve the desired effects rather slows the development of small shipbuilding. Based on the Law on Special Taxation on vessels, only 4.2 million kunas continue to fall after the introduction of taxes. At the time of application of the Special Tax Act on vessels, 105 small producers were registered, with 2,500 employees. Today there are 85 manufacturers with 1600 employees. So we're also recording the decline in income, and the decline in the number of producers, and employees over the years, by applying this law. So, what are the short-term objectives of abolishing the special tax on vessels? The first goal is to protect domestic craft manufacturers and create a more favourable business climate for them. The increase in the number of employees in this manufacturing sector, as I said, estimates that in small shipbuilding currently employs 1,600 workers, there were 2,500 workers, and in the accompanying industry that provides different services to small shipbuilding, another 4,000 workers. Our goal is also to achieve greater revenues from the sale of domestic vessels. Then create more favourable, or more competitive conditions for regulating the status of registered vessels of owners from other neighbouring Adriatic, Mediterranean states, mainly under the circumstances of the recent entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union, as it is estimated that in the Republic of Croatia winter means around 15000 foreign vessels in marinas, of which 80% of them are owners of the European Union. Next, an increase in public revenues from the titles of public duties charged on registered vessels, revenues based on annual and seasonal maintenance, and the binding, storage and storage of vessels in marinas, and an increase in the number of staff in service activities related to the management of vessels and the operation of the marina. So, the most significant newspaper adopted by the proposal for a new law to exempt vessels from paying a special tax on imports or production and sales in the Republic of Croatia. Provisions relating to the taxation of the traffic of used passenger cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft that buy or acquire legal or natural persons in the Republic of Croatia are not changed. We propose the adoption of an emergency law because of the fact that before the tourist season, manufacturers have the most shipments of vessels as one measure to encourage domestic, small shipbuilding and to inform foreign owners of the new conditions of detention and registration of vessels in the Republic of Croatia after the entry into the European Union of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10902	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We're going to a debate. They're clubs first. And on behalf of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Nadica Jelas. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10903	Dear Vice President, Deputy Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. This law that we are talking about today was last changed in early February 2010. The amendments were adopted unanimously then, so the SDP club then supported the amendments to the law in the opposition not because the law was such that it had to be unspeakablely supported but simply because it was less evil than until then, the applicable law which proved to be extremely harmful. When I talk about the harmful law, then I think about the law that came into force in early August 2009, so at a time when the economic crisis culminated and when we remember additional taxes, so on and so on. The hack was trying to compensate for the lack of funds in the state register. In order to mitigate the public's negative reaction to the introduction of haraks by the then government has decided on stronger luxury taxation, in particular boats and yachts. I will remind you only for today's theme that the basic rate of taxes per vessel to the value of 50 000 kuna was 13% at the time and that this tax was planned to raise about 30 million kuna in the state budget. In just a few months, however, as the law was in force, its destructive effect was observed. As a result of the increase in this particular tax, the prices of boats and yachts have increased significantly, and the direct consequence has been the reduction and cancellation of orders for their construction. Croatia's small shipbuilding was brought literally to the brink of collapse. Why are we talking about Croatian small shipbuilding? Well, because an average of 1100 boats and yachts were produced annually, of which almost 80% to 7 and a half meters long, and a further 20 percent from 7 and a half to 12 meters long. 70% of the total production of these boats and yachts was sold on the domestic market. However, it is important to stress that in the small shipbuilding activity, around 2 and a half thousand people were then provided with their existence. In just 6 months of law enforcement, a large number of small shipbuilders have failed, many jobs have been shut down. It was clear that the law was a populist measure adopted with the aim of taxing luxury, of course, and to obtain a certain fiscal impact. However, it should be said that it was literally because of one steak that killed the cow. In fact, the fiscal effect of the law has been weak since the beginning with a tendency to further decrease. For example, I will suggest that 17 million kuna was charged from that tax in 2007 to reduce that amount to only 4.2 million kuna in the last year, but therefore a long-term, hard-to-reparable damage to the entire small shipbuilding activity and it was clear that the law should be amended. And not only that, but also because of the fact that the law was contrary to the strategy for the development of the nautical tourism of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2009 to 2019. In fact, if the strategy forces the development of nautical tourism, it is entirely illogical and counterproductive to tax the transport of vessels. And instead of already, so in February 2010, when it went on to change that bad, I will say the law completely abolished the ship's tax and saved small shipbuilding from the total immersion one partial solution was adopted, i.e. It was only going to cut taxes on vessels and aircraft. In doing so, a special tax on private cars and on other motor vehicles remained unchanged. Thus, the basic rate of special taxes per vessel up to 200000 kuna is reduced from the original 13 to the 5%. But what I have to point out at this point is that the change of laws happened to something that was never supposed to happen, which is that the most profitable change was the owners of the largest vessels and yachts because their special tax on that new bill had fallen rather than increased. So, what the former government did in February 2010 we will do today, that is, on Friday when this law will be passed to us, so we will pass this law which will fully exempt the vessels from paying a special tax and not only those produced in Croatia but also those imported into Croatia, because in the context of Croatia's entry into the European Union, we must regulate this more precisely, in fact, to equalise the status of vessels imported from abroad. This amendment of the law will literally give rise to the cry of desperate domestic craft manufacturers whose numerous initiatives and observations and were the basic reason for the accession of amendments to the law and in large numbers have been respected and incorporated into this legal text. In addition to the protection of domestic craft manufacturers, the aim of this law is also to attract more foreign owners of ships and yachts because the fact that vessels in Croatia will not be taxed in Croatia should be one important, strong motive and stimulant for foreign owners of ships and yachts to register their vessels in our country at the time of Croatia's entry into the EU because of the public fees charged on registered vessels, we would make additional revenues. 15 thousand ships are located in winter in Croatia, 80% of their owners from EU countries and potential revenues from registration and storage, for example, those vessels in the Republic of Croatia cannot be of no interest to us. So, if I want to develop nautical tourism, then a positive environment should be created for this, among other things, fiscal measures. And in this sense, the abolition of the ship's taxes is certainly the wind in the sails of Croatian nautical tourism. Finally, regarding this legislative proposal, it will certainly be those who will ask why a smaller number of citizens are abolished, rather than a tax on cars that has an incomparably larger number of citizens. We'll finally agree all the cars isn't luxury he's need unless of course he's luxurious and he's profiting from cutting taxes on cars from far more citizens than from cutting taxes on vessels? The answer to this question is this, cars are not Croatian product, shipbuilding is. It is originally Croatian and this removal of the special tax on vessels is a safeguard for domestic craft manufacturers, it is an incentive to small shipbuilding that we believe will positively act on re-enhancing production. The mark of small entrepreneurs is fortunate to be quickly as they say they are recuperating and this should be a measure to increase their competitiveness. So our message, the SDP's message, is that taxation of manufacturers and importers of boats and yachts by transport tax is not a good solution because it obviously destroys one economic activity and at times when every gold job is worth it. A traditional Croatian activity is being destroyed, and Croatia is a maritime country. We at the club think it's a far better solution to taxing property and therefore, with future property tax, we'll tax the owners of yachts, so those who had money to buy a yacht, not those who produced it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10904	Thank you, too, Your Honor. The word has a respected representative Mladen Novak and the club of Croatian Labourists in the Croatian Parliament. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10905	Mr. Vice President, the esteemed deputy with the associates, the esteemed colleagues. In the submission of this proposal, the argument given by the applicant is "respecting the circumstances that taxation of the vessel by way of a specific tax is one of the reasons which contributes to the difficult conditions for increasing the roles of investment in production capacity as well as to reducing the intensity and scope of production in the shipbuilding sector and, consequently, to reducing the overall level of employment in the Republic of Croatia". And then in the opening part, we heard from my predecessor that 2.5 thousand people were employed in small shipbuilding, and as a result, it came to 340 thousand unemployed. So the thesis itself is on very loose feet. It is further stated that the reasons for the changes relate to "the protection of domestic craft producers, the increase in the number of employees in this manufacturing sector and the achievement of higher revenues from the sale of domestic vessels". This is probably partly true, but only part of it. Try to spend your time on our coast and look at the boats and you will see how many of them are produced in our country, how many of the Elan's are Slovenian and how many of those foreign brands we ordinary mortals don't even know. "The numerous and repeated initiatives of the association of domestic craft manufacturers have been taken into account specifically and reasonedly focused precisely on the abolition of the specific vessel tax." And now about that, I went to look for a specialist magazine in which it comes out and, among other things, the text was published in 2009, which related to the amendment of that law that I was passing only part of the quote. "One more of the papers is that the special tax on imports of vessels should be paid at the time of the creation of the customs obligation." That hurts the most. So the excise duty should now be paid to the importer. Before the regulation was adopted, this excise duty was paid during the sale to the end-user, simplistically, every more serious importer who had had at the warehouse a dozen vessels of an average value of EUR 200 000, in order to do so and should now employ an additional 400 to 450 thousand kuna that would have to be given to the State. At this time of crisis on the market, when no additional charges were introduced, sales fell and up to 80% to sell or worse, the ship's production became an impossible mission. I'm putting the accent on the import lobby. So they were the most affected but successfully dragged into their story also small producers or small shipyards. I definitely support the idea of protecting our little shipbuilding, but if we're doing it under the cover of something else, then it's very disputable. On the other hand, there may be a problem here, which has led to a decline in production, which may have led to real job losses, which is that without introduction, we quote "and without the introduction of additional sales duties and up to 80%" which means that it does not bind to this application that the colleague said just before. The fact is also that what the Deputy Minister said last year is 4.2 million kuna in some other circumstances that there is no recession in both Europe and us would probably be far greater, but this is about it. I also found the information, I think it's an interview with Mr Linic's Finance Minister that there will be no special tax on imports of boats and yachts because of the EU's obligations. So now you see where it has to do with each other. And I just have to look back on, even though I've already mentioned it, one finding which is why taxes are paid on cars, and taxes are not paid on the construction of those yachts, boats or how we don't call them all. Cars aren't our product unlike all those yachts. Fat over 80% of these yachts are not our product. So we hide neatly behind some thesis that doesn't stand at all, but if we're going to save a few jobs, I'm going to be thrilled, not satisfied. But since we're going to that side, I'd like to ask not only you as Deputy Minister of Finance, but in general all the representatives of the government who come here, when you're explaining something, you're giving specific information. Now we've been listening there were 2,500 employees, now there are far fewer. It's a very vague term. ... No, no, it was said 2500, sorry if you said I'm sorry, I didn't hear. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm sorry, I didn't hear. Do those 1,000... ,2500 to 1600, that would have happened without this tax, maybe not to this extent. [[You don't understand.]] But I think it's very, very dubious information about whether this fall occurred solely because of this tax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10906	Thank you, Your Honor. Next is the HDZ club and respected representative Branko Bačić. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10907	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Deputy Associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support amendments to the Law on Special Tax on Personal Cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft, which will indeed make it easier for domestic manufacturers to sell vessels that produce and in a certain way accept their initiative, which has been advocated for two years already to amend this law because they also hold that the problems created in small shipbuilding are partly conditioned and valid by law. But they agree, too, we agree at the HDZ Club, and I believe that you too, Mr. Deputy, agree that the data that you have presented, which says that the number of employees in small shipbuilding in Croatia has fallen, I would not even say too much because of the current law but primarily because of the crisis, because of the recession, because not only in Croatia but also in Europe, and in the world it is significantly less sold than in the pre-crisis time. Therefore, it is not appropriate and not good to lay down the existing law to this extent to reduce the number of employees in Croatian small shipbuilding. That is why we will also support this bill, because every tax discharge is welcome, and especially when it comes from this government because in the past 6 months we have not recognised any document proposed to the Croatian Parliament, which would significantly or less reduce the tax burdens of citizens. However, the introduction of VAT is a significant tax burden on Croatian citizens, and we will see this best at the end of the year when we have a report on the implementation of the state budget, when we know how much more funds are received by the basis of an increase in VAT rates by 2%. I think it's going to be over three billion kunas somewhere. Therefore, it is a fundamental tax burden in Croatia. And this tax, which I said in my introduction, was additionally imposed on all those taxes that go when boats or yachts are sold and bought, in any case it is minor in relation to the tax burden on citizens resulting from an increase in value added tax. Even for smaller boats worth up to 200 thousand kuna and for which the existing excise duty law was 5%, when compared to an increase in VAT rate by 2%, then such a huge reduction that will take place in this law does not really occur, because the VAT rate of 2% is almost equal to, for less value, for smaller boats almost overlaps with the suspension of excise duty for those same boats. Therefore, this law will have its effect for boats and yachts in which the excise duty was higher than the excise duty that was on small boats, which was really small and this existing law was in a certain way protecting those small boats that are sold in Croatia and which are mostly bought I would say less wealthy Croatian citizens, and it was more focused on large ships, i.e. yachts that were over 400, 500 thousand kuna or over 100,000 euros. Nevertheless, we in HDZ therefore support the proposal for this law. When we talk about small Croatian shipbuilding, the previous governments have since 2005 brought a number of projects that have gone towards the strengthening of small shipbuilding in the Republic of Croatia with very important projects that we co-financed through the state budget. The first project was a project for the construction of an excursion and tourist fleet in the Republic of Croatia based on 60 boats built in small shipyards in Croatia as a rule on islands, but also in other small shipyards and the project financed 10% of the ship's hull that was built in that small shipyard with the funds of the Government of Croatia. I say, the basis of this project was built 60 boats and it was reconstructed 60 ships, small ships, cruisers as we call them, these small cruisers that sail between Croatia's islands, mostly built from wood and reconstructed 25 other ships, so Croatia is indeed with these ships, and with the already existing 120 such ships making a unique offer in the Mediterranean when it comes to this nautical, small nautical tourism that is taking place throughout Croatia, along the Croatian coast. So it is a very important project that has also helped the survival of small shipbuilding in the Republic of Croatia. Another important project we implemented was a project to encourage the construction of a fishing fleet in which the project invested 450 million kuna and which, with the co-financing of the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure and the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Economy, each ministry with 10% significantly supported the restoration of the fishing fleet in Croatia and those ships were again, these ships were built to the greatest extent in these small Croatian shipyards, thus clearly indicating that previous governments had taken care of this small shipbuilding and small shipbuilding employees. However, earlier on on behalf of the SDP club Mrs Nadica Jelas said she believed that she was certain that by amending this law a large part of the yacht, she listed the number of 15 thousand, which are currently on an annual basis in the Republic of Croatia and which are under the flag of this law will be entered in the Croatian Register of Ships and that this law will enable these ships to be registered now in the Croatian Register of Ships. Unfortunately, he won't. Not because it is true that this law will enable and reduce the tax burden of all boat owners, i.e. yachts that will now buy or enroll their yachts in the Croatian Register of Ships. But I believe the Ministry of Finance is familiar with the fact that now the owners of ships registered under foreign flags and when this excise duty is lifted are still faced with one of the highest VAT rates in Europe, with a rate of 25%. And in order to enable the owners of these ships now that we have released them from excise duty payments, we would allow them to enroll in the Croatian Register of Ships, it is necessary to enable them to be included in the Croatian Register of Ships at approximately the level of other countries, such as Cyprus, such as Malta, such as Greece, such as Italy that have a lower VAT rate. Because the next year when we enter the EU, when we are a single market, then certainly those ships that are under the flags of foreign countries will also have to be registered and registered in the Register of Ships of EU Member States. Therefore, the latter would also be required to resolve this, and I think that this is also suggested by small boat manufacturers and small production in Croatia, the Ministry of Finance, or the Tax Administration, to find ways to enable this VAT registration tax to be paid when entering the Croatian Register of Ships to be approximately equal to the fees they would have in other EU Member States. Therefore, this is not a sufficient measure in order to include not a small number of boats, i.e. yachts that are currently on the annual link to the Republic of Croatia in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, in the Croatian Register of Ships, it is necessary that the ministry make a second measure proposed by Croatian small shipbuilding, which is the measure not to pay one of the highest tax rates when enrolment is made, and that is 25%. So, the whole problem is not one-sided, it cannot be solved only by this amendment to the law, where it is fortunate that, where luck would the problems of small Croatian shipbuilding be solved only by amending this law. She's quite simple, she's welcome, we'll support her, but she's not alone enough. It is necessary for the Government to continue with projects to build and restore the tourist fleet of small wooden ships or small ships on which this nautical tourism is taking place throughout the Croatian Adriatic, it is necessary to continue with other measures aimed at encouraging the construction of ships in Croatian shipyards, and now that we have changed this law on the basis of this, it would be good to expand this project to build small ships in a way other than these ships and yachts. It would then be the right way to encourage the construction of boats and yachts in Croatian shipyards and this would be the right way to help our small manufacturers who are really in a difficult situation today. Therefore, if we continue these projects with changes to this law and allow for cheaper registration of those 15 thousand boats that will have to be registered in one of the EU Member States after 1 July, if we find the right model they could then be entered into our boat register, or yachts. We could also generate State budget funds based on VAT payments, we could... units of local self-government basic fees for the use of maritime goods. So that way this project that you started today with this change would be completed. And if you do on that trail then we can say that we did something for a small Croatian shipbuilding. Here, in this sense, the HDZ club supports the adoption of such a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10908	Thank you, Your Honor. The word has a respected representative Petar Baranovic and the Club of HNS Representatives. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10909	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Deputy with Associates, Dear colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HNS Club right at the beginning of course we will support this bill. Somehow, it was always the easiest thing for me to agree with Mr. Bačić when it comes to topics of the sea and I can indeed confirm on behalf of the CNS we are quite close in attitudes when it comes to small shipbuilding and general shipbuilding in Croatia. The suggestions that have been made are in any case worth considering and considering. Why such a law, which is why taking down a tax in a situation where there is an imperative of consolidation of state finances and for this reason we were forced to raise VAT by 2%? The reason is very simple, this government and this political set aside from the balance of finances has an imperative and task to encourage and resuscitate industrial production and production in general in Croatia as well as shipbuilding. Why in this Regulation are only vessels, not aircraft and cars? For a very simple reason, I think that we have never worked apart from some individual examples and adventures in the history of Croatian aviation, cars too, but we have been working ships since we were known as people and shipbuilding is indeed one of the strategic economic and industrial branches of the Republic of Croatia. So far, the main focus has been on the problems of the shipbuilding we experience daily through information emissions, political emissions, reading the press. It's a shipbuilding, construction of large commercial and passenger ships, the fate of large smugglers. However, for people who follow the profession and know at least the essential part of the Croatian industry there is a very clear and strong knowledge that Croatia is building anything that sails and even what floats beneath the surface. In doing so, we may be one of 10 today, 12 to 15 countries in the world capable of building a submarine or a battleship. We work in all kinds of materials, ships of all possible purposes, all types of ships of special shipbuilding and therefore there is a very clear imperative to protect that economic branch. What about the small shipbuilding alone? Small shipbuilding, according to data provided by relevant institutions in the last 15 years, has seen strong growth in Croatia both by the number of companies involved in this type of production, both by number and by the growth of employees. She's not a minor in the sector today. In 2010, for example, 2544 employees worked in the sector according to data from the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, which made it clear that it was one, in that small shipbuilding, one big "May 3rd" or the Split shipyard. These people worked at 110 companies, had before this recession total traffic reached nearly half a billion kuna, so they are not negligible from that point of view either. Of course, the arrival of the recession suffered the first blow by introducing excise duties, and they suffered a second blow. We can't simply remove the recession, but we can pass this excise duty by passing this law. They can definitely agree that this is a step that will not solve the problems of small shipbuilders entirely, as it will not, as it is impossible to solve the problems of the Croatian economy in any way at the moment. However, this move gives us a chance and creates better conditions, better opportunities for re-growing and strengthening the market for this kind of vessel. We give the chance to re-establish the market and increase the gradual production of our small shipbuilders. These people are absolutely competitive in this sector we must not lose our technological step. We are also exporting these types to the most demanding markets and here is a clear illustration to some of our small shipbuilders from the middle Adriatic region through the Inavis project, namely the economic cooperation of the Kingdom of Norway and the city of Sibenik, have business cooperation with three producers in Croatia. They export these vessels to the Norwegian market, it testifies to quality, it's as if we're producing porcelain and exporting it to China. And in that we have a chance, which is why the HNS absolutely supports this proposal to take down this excise duty. It will make it possible, of course, not to resolve until the end, as counterpart Bačić concluded, but will open up a greater opportunity and greater interest and owners of foreign vessels to import their vessels to Croatia and to find a link in Marina and enjoy one of the most beautiful archipelagos globally. They will put that ship under the Croatian flag, and on the moment the vessel comes under the Croatian flag, we will surely collect more in the long term than what is contained in this excise duty. These are, if the vessel is of a certain size and the income is from the Croatian Register of Ships, these are revenues from registration at the Port Captain's, these are the bond tax, they are in the case of motor yachts of enormous sum through the cost of spent fuel. So it is about consumers who at every second of their duration and use of our space, the use of our marinas leave money to the Croatian economy, Croatian tourism and directly with very respectable sums filled with Croatia's state budget. They encourage employment in the service sector, thus full and budgets of local self-government units. It's ladies and gentlemen simply for the Croatian gold mine. It is up to us to open the door to this activity by supporting this measure, by voting this law, but also by preparing some other measures in this sector, to re-engage it in the upcoming trend, as it is evident that during the years of recession, and even in the years when some measures may have been taken hastily, this activity has suffered a drastic fall. Our Italian neighbours started introducing new excise duties and raising taxes on this type of vessel, and on this type of service, the result was an exceptional inquiry at the beginning of this year and at the end of last year an extraordinary increase in the demand of users of their services, users of their marinas, their service shipyards to transfer their vessels to the Croatian coast. It is up to us to look at this problem, to listen without complexes or prejudices, to all the suggestions that come from the sector, to the policy of the people who have experience in that part, and to implement the rest of the necessary measures that would give us a chance to get out of this maximum. For these reasons, the HNS club supports this law and will vote for it. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10910	Thank you, Your Honor. This is how we exhausted the list of representatives' clubs in the Croatian Parliament, which were registered to discuss this bill. We're moving on to a debate, an individual debate of deputies for 10 minutes. And she's a real respected representative of Mirela Holly. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10911	Thank you, Vice President. At the very beginning of the debate, I would like to welcome the adoption of this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Special Taxes on Personal Cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft. Because I hope that it will foster economic activity in small shipyards, and what we do believe is that we all agree on an extremely positive measure that can be the wind in the back of Croatia's economic recovery and Croatia's exit from recession. However, I would like to stress that Croatia also needs a much more comprehensive tax policy reform at the moment, especially in the part of the tax burden on passenger cars, but also other motor vehicles, because in all developed Europe, this tax policy and excise duty policy differs dramatically from the policy that is present with us in Croatia, as the burden of taxation and means excise duties are determined according to the strength of the car and the height of the price of the vehicle, while in developed countries Europe is mainly determined according to the CO2 emissions that each individual vehicle has. This is extremely important when we bear in mind that by 2020 Croatia must reduce by 20% CO2 emissions and that Croatia still has the highest emissions in the transport sector. And for this reason, I am very pleased that a working group has been formed which is currently considering these issues and that this working group is an inter-resor working group consisting not only of the Ministry of Finance which is directly responsible for this issue but also of the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Environment and Nature and the Ministry of Transport. I am deeply convinced that the reform of the tax policy and excise duty policies that Croatia will be classified alongside developed European countries will certainly have a positive impact on reducing CO2 emissions in the transport sector, and this is particularly important when it comes to the fact that if vehicles are powered by electric vehicles or driven by hybrid vehicles, but at the moment when they are powered by electricity, these emissions are double-calculated, which means that they are double-declining the emissions that Croatia has at the moment. I believe we really have to do this, because if we don't, we won't meet the goals we have until 2020. It will not be enough to go only with measures to increase the share of renewable energy sources in the energy sector, but we must also increase renewable energy sources in the transport sector. Well, here it is, I hope the Ministry of Finance soon I hope this fall will bring before us a package of measures, legislative measures that will make a major reform right in this part and that we will finally have measures to go in the direction of greening traffic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10912	Thank you, too, Your Honor. Now it's Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić and her 10 minutes. Dear MPs, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10913	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Director. Well, here, I support this proposal precisely because it has a major impact on small shipbuilding, or on the protection of domestic production, thus increasing jobs, and also increasing revenues from the sale of domestic vehicles. Let us also remember the deep tradition of shipbuilding in Dalmatia, which is actually still from the 15th century. We have all agreed here that the nautical sector is important in the economy and that the problems that, the problems are great and that especially they have been piling up in recent crisis years. Therefore, we all aim to create opportunities for customers to buy, register, or maintain ships right in Croatia. By stimulating such activities, the state budget would be more high-quality and the sector would develop in this way. Inciting such a small shipbuilding, its impact spreads to other economic branches as well. Namely, each new ship requires and protects, requires maintenance, service, which, of course, automatically engages, or requires the engagement of a number of people. Here we see representatives of customs, representatives of the Ministry of Finance. I would say that this problem should be considered inter-sectorally, discussed alongside the Ministry of Customs, i.e. Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Economy. I'd mention the Ministry of Science here. Why do I say that? Well, it's precisely because if shipbuilders are thinking about who they can actually hire as data designers that I've seen some design themselves, but how to hire a real ship designer. It's said that we actually have a design study at the Architectural Faculty and it's a product of design. They create a product designer or industrial designers. However, if someone is interested in designing ships, you may need to think about some or post-graduate study for such, of course, in cooperation with the economy, economy and science. Croatia's small shipbuilding, of course, after taking off which it started ten years ago, is actually experiencing its most difficult recession time, and this is given that tax policy that was regularly accompanied by the VAT and that it was additionally burdened with excise duties. Namely, their product was classified in the luxurious needs of life. The profession further states that it did not actually come out with favourable loans, i.e. different, more favourable repayment deadlines, which would also help small entrepreneurs, i.e. small shipbuilders to get out of the crisis. Here's a few more figures. In the Republic of Croatia, about 352 companies or crafts with registered shipbuilding activities and 15 medium-sized shipyards were registered in small shipbuilding. When you look at it, it's 0.002% compared to all registered economic operators in the Republic of Croatia. The excise duties are actually the most affected by just the manufacturers, vessels from... plastics and an inflatable boat that actually doesn't exist after this time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Of those 176 active in the pre-crisis period, surely no more than 59% of them are alive today, especially in the domain means glass of the vessel's plastic production. As far as income itself is concerned, the total income of the total small shipbuilding in 95 was around 117 million kuna. In 2008, the same amounted to a billion and 900,000 kuna. In these numbers, we see that the income increased by 855.17% and it is to be pointed out that in that period no business branch grew at the same rate. Therefore, the introduction of excise duties, i.e. there was a decrease in production, i.e. there was also a decrease in employment, especially when you look at the data on the number of employees in glass-based production, see that it is lower by 54.74%. Dear gentlemen, I will say more examples of other countries, examples of Turkey, Turkey's small shipbuilding, Turkey's state has concessioned the maritime well-being of shipbuilders that the state has subsidized both by building halls and favourable long-term loans for the purchase of equipment, and it is precisely in Turkey that the construction of these glass-based yachts is a front with each type of aid or subsidisation by the state. With these amendments to the laws and others that Croatia is considering, it must find a way to protect this activity because Croatian small shipbuilding deserves better. And I believe that it will not happen to go shopping outside Croatia for its ships, or its vessels, because Croatia was 3rd country after shipbuilding. I hope that this is also a small shift, or a first step towards that re-judge. But, of course, nothing happens overnight, no one has a magic wand but the shifts are necessary and I think we're starting with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10914	Thank you, too, Your Honor. At your presentation, we have a single replica and a respected representative of Branko Bačić. Let's hear the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10915	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I thank my colleague Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić for partly coming out of the context of the law itself by mentioning other shipyards that may not be touched by this law but which are very important for the entire Croatian shipbuilding It is not namely representatives of those major Croatian shipyards that are also in major problems, but depend largely on the status of these shipyards. Such shipyards along the Croatian coast are also on land but also on Croatian islands from Cres, Mali Losinj, Brac especially on Korčula. There are three small shipyards in Korčula in Blato and Veli Luka and the town of Korčula that have been employed until the 1990s and over a thousand 200 employees today all together because of the crisis in Croatian shipbuilding due to the current crisis in world shipbuilding have about 550 employees, which, as I said, depend very much on the status of Croatian shipbuilding. On that trail was one project that was good that the government could encourage, which is the restoration of the fleet of the national shipowner Jadrolinia. And this project has certainly provided work not only for large shipyards in the first row Split, part of Split and the Queen, part of 3. In May, the project has already found its work and the shipyards. Given the state of the fleet of the national shipowner, given the need for better and better quality to connect the external islands of Korčula, Lastovo, Mljet and the need to build exactly ships for these islands, it would be good for the government to continue with a project to rebuild the fleet of the national shipowners so that this shipbuilding site, which I mentioned to Korčula but also on Cres and Mali Lošinj, would be very much work, so it is not directly in the context of the law, but Mrs Šimac-Bonačić reminded me of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10916	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10917	Thank you very much. My colleague Bačić, I am pleased that you mentioned you probably meant the reef in Vela Luka, i.e. the Blato Raj Shipyard. Well, that's commendable. We know that the number of workers in these shipyards has been reduced, but still there are 140 employees in Vela Luka, or in Blato, some 330 people working. And I must further point out that Montmontaza Reben was named the most successful middle-size company in Dubrovnik-Neretva County. So these are all good examples of how they can work, they can maintain jobs, and I also agree that the state should look especially at such firms on islands and help them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10918	Thank you, too. It is up to the honourable representative Boris Blazekovic and his 10 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10919	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. It is obvious that it is still going on and it will probably take some more time to settle the bad legislation that we have witnessed in the past period, and this is one of the most obviously harmful and unreasonable laws that has been passed that has caused so much damage not only to small shipbuilding but to all that has followed this small shipbuilding but also in some way also to the tradition of life at sea. One of the similar so unreasonable laws was that you will remember the Law on the Ban of Work on Sundays that simply closed so many small merchants, neighborhood stores, I personally know three, is also one law that was passed because of some populist desires and strange motives, simply a certain branch of the establishment of our fellow citizens and fellow citizens. On behalf of the HNS Club, the law itself was discussed by Mr Petar Baranovic, and I would just like to say that the Committee on Tourism on 26 April 2012 organised a thematic session dedicated to proposals and measures to improve nautical tourism in the Republic of Croatia and in preparation of that session, the Committee consulted the professional interests of the specialized organization of Croatian nautical tourism, scientific associations and other relevant partners who raised a series of issues and proposals that they considered relevant for further development of nautical tourism. On the basis of the conclusions of the mentioned session, the Committee has drawn up material which is referred to the opinion and conduct of all relevant ministries and so on to the Ministry of Finance. Among other things, the Committee proposed in its conclusions to the Ministry of Finance the following, a special vessel tax has proved to be fully fiscally inefficient and a small shipbuilding brake, which will be further expressed under the circumstances of the increased VAT rate to 25% of the special vessel tax. It is not possible to attract vessel owners under a foreign flag to register all vessels at the time of entry into the EU in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the Committee on Tourism calls on the Ministry of Finance to consider the possibility of abolishing the specific tax on vessels through amendments and supplementing the Law on Special Taxes on Cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft, and that the Committee on Tourism is also proposing to the Ministry of Finance to consider and determine the possibilities of a stimulating way of calculating VAT rates on vessels held by EU citizens on a permanent basis in Croatia and to be motivated by simplification of the procedure to register in Croatia after the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union, not in the country of origin. In any case, this law was done in the intensities of this government, which is to allow manufacturers simply prosperity, to enable them to do more normal work and to allow them to develop a certain branch, in this case small shipbuilding as has already been said, with 2544 employees we fell somewhere at around 1600. Every 110 companies that produce in small shipbuilding have fallen to some 85 with the fact that it's still tied up to today only somewhere over 5,000, today some 4,000 employees in the shipbuilding complex because the ship's own production today is significantly more complex than it used to be. It should also be noted and made clear that Croatia's small shipbuilding has international successes and that it is successful on an international basis. There are numerous awards and recognitions of various nautical fairs and relevant nautical magazines for Croatian ship design and Croatian small shipbuilding. However, I would certainly like to tell some colleagues today who have discussed that at sea, or on the coast of Croatia, about a million and a half people, possibly more than a million and a half people, are living, if not more. And they are all, in a certain way, bound to the sea and bound to their conditionally spoken boats and their vessels. Croatia's small shipbuilding is no longer so tied up, and people living by the sea are not as attached to fishing and fishing as they are to the culture of life by the sea. Anyone living at sea would like to have their boat and its boat and should look simply at people, should look at the communal circuits for which everyone struggles daily and tries to increase the number. They are insufficient for Croatian citizens who wish to have their boats, and these boats are trust me in 90% of cases of domestic production, in 90% of cases. Clearly, every day thanks to God and the development of small shipbuilding in the Republic of Croatia, these ships are getting better, more equipped and more quality materials, and we produce absolutely from all materials, from wood to aluminium and steel. And that is why I believe that such a measure that promotes small shipbuilding ensures and helps the traditional lives of our citizens living by the sea, that they continue to develop that culture of life by the sea and that they continue to form Croatia and provide Croatia with this maritime orientation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10920	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We have a single replica on your display. Dear Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10921	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with Mr Blazekovic in the part where he says that today people living along the coast, and he said that he lives somewhere around a million and 500 thousand Croats to live us up the coast, that it is not only a problem to have a boat but it is a problem where that ship is tied up. The problem is not only in municipal ports, today is a big problem from the aspect of nautical tourism where to tie the flock or boats that are growing more and more in Croatia every day. In Croatia, some 60,000 foreign boats have been boarded from about 116000 boats as many as they are registered today in the Croatian Book of Boats and it is almost impossible to secure a normal, secure berth on the Croatian Adriatic, which is why according to the data we collected when we were working on the Nautical Tourism Strategy, there are about 40,000 berths in Croatia that are located in the ports of nautical tourism, and what is found in the municipal ports. That's exactly what the Nautical Tourism Development Strategy was made for. I am sorry that I was not at this thematic debate held by the Parliamentary Committee on Tourism, but I think that the current government should continue to realise this strategy that has been done by prominent Croatian institutions, institutions dealing with and spatial planning, which deal with maritime tourism. Therefore, according to the strategy, Croatia currently needs about 15000 bonds to meet the current criteria, primarily because of the need to develop nautical tourism. Therefore, I agree with you that apart from the problems encountered in the small shipbuilding in Croatia, the second segment is certainly the need for these yachts, those boats being built in Croatia or outside Croatia to secure a secure berth, and I am saying it is thoughtful, envisaged right through the strategy of developing nautical tourism.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10922	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10923	We agree, namely that's one problem. It is not a problem but we are pleased to agree that for our fellow citizens at sea there is a great burden on the huge concentration of ships, and the disorder and maternal relationship of the state against our fellow citizens living on the sea and possessing vessels. And that must be one problem that's about to be solved and solved as soon as possible. This is a complex problem because it requires very many documents from the maritime goods and the right to maritime well-being is included, rules and regulations which must not deprive foreign citizens, and must in some way give priority to Croatian citizens. In addition to this measure, I think they are necessary, and there are also measures of the Ministry of crafts and entrepreneurship which, through its advantages, through its incentives is duty and encourages and can encourage small shipbuilding in the Republic of Croatia. So that's one measure complex, and I'm sure, I'm sure it won't fit. And as you know, the HNS has proposed in the adoption of the interview, i.e. through a debate on the report on the implementation of the Sport Act that we have adopted a proposal, i.e. proposed that in order to develop... tourism in multi-class primary schools, lower secondary schools introduce a mandatory sailing object. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10924	Thank you very much. We thus exhausted the list of registered representatives for the debate for 10 minutes. I call upon the esteemed Boris Lalovac, Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Finance to give a final review. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10925	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Here I have to say today that for these first two points I am extremely pleased with the debate today in the Parliament where we have actually shown that this first point and the second point where the government has shown by abolishing the obligation to relieve the economy of these two first points one referred to industry and telecommunications, and the second point is to develop small shipbuilding. We wanted to show what is actually, to get a consensus here, that we need to reduce the burdens in that part of the industry that have growth prospects, that have a perspective for employment. It is certainly a telecommunications industry with infrastructure, but together about the development of small shipbuilding where, apart from the tradition that exists in the Republic of Croatia, it is certainly also an incentive for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and for this market niche where we will actually be competitive on the European market with such products. So, all those observations that we've heard that there's actually no strategy, development, plan, etc., today we're denying you by removing the burdens that I'm not going to be going back to the past as they've been imposed on you, but today we're showing the works that we're removing the burdens for the development of one sector and another, and unlike we're not going to talk a lot, we're going to work, we're going to cut back on those parts of the industry where we see that there's an incentive for growth and employment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10926	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate on the text proposal. We'll vote when the voting conditions are met. Final proposal of the Act amending and supplementing the Act on Special Taxes on Personal Cars, other motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 103. The debate is closed. We don't have an amendment. I am voting on the final draft of the law. I'm asking you to raise your hand and let us know who's in. Thank you very much. Does anyone mind? Are there any abstentions? There is. The result? I find that most of the votes, 114 for and 3 abstentions have been passed the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Special Taxes on Personal Cars, remained motor vehicles, vessels and aircraft in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10929	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. On 17 May 2012, the debate in the first reading on the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements of the General Tax Law was concluded in the Croatian Parliament. Key amendments and additions were related to changing the Institute of Tax Secrets, prescribing the possibility of publishing the list of debts, then extending the provisions on liability, meaning the breach of the Institute's limited liability, the regulation of the obligations of the legal breakthrough of debts and the claim of the state budget and other changes. In the final debate at the 4th session of 18 May 2012, a conclusion was reached which adopted the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Tax Law, with 91 votes to 17 votes against and 1 vote abstention. The draft law in amendments to the General Tax Code was made clear by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Justice. All comments, proposals and opinions were made on committees and were addressed to the applicant during the debate in order to prepare the final draft law. The references and proposals of the committees concerned the publication of the list of breakthroughs, i.e. the possibility of payment of the debt. As regards the publication of the list, proposals have been made: to prescribe the time dimension of the debt, i.e. to prescribe the age of the debt as a criterion for publication. The proposal has been accepted. As a criterion, the age of debt is prescribed in a way that the debt per day of publication must be above 3 months. So we're talking about a debt that's over 90 days old. Here was the debate that could arise and some technical problems, we respected these remarks precisely for the reason that let's not say because of the lack of a tax debt card balance with the taxpayers wouldn't cause let's say an inappropriate relationship to publish someone who wasn't guilty of his debt. It's a three-month deadline. Then, to specify the amount of debt. It is also accepted in a way that the precise data published in the amount of the debt, the amount of the debt per tax type and the total amount of the debt. The position expressed in the debate here in the Assembly has also been accepted as being too low the amount of debt as the criteria for publication, so it is increasing as criteria for publication and for natural persons carrying out activities from 50 thousand kuna to 100 thousand kuna, for legal persons from 100 thousand to 300 thousand kuna, for other taxpayers from 10 thousand to 15 thousand kuna. Then, when the debtors are announced, they will cover both government and state-owned companies, which may be the reason for the existence of the debt. Unfortunately, for technical reasons, we could not accept this proposal, given that further amendments propose a legal break of the obligation and a request for a state budget, which should ultimately result in any other rules relating to the timing of the settlement of commitments from the state budget. Also, here I must once again note that we are aware that there is a practice in the economy that certain small entrepreneurs or generally entrepreneurs can find themselves in difficulty unless they are paid by state-owned companies. The Ministry of Finance has been proactively involved in saying that all state-owned companies must carry out their obligations on time. If state-owned enterprises do not comply with their obligations in a timely manner, they will unfortunately be deprived of such management in the future. Since they must understand that companies were actually state-owned or private-owned, we are asking the Ministry of Finance for equal market liability and will not be privileged in this case. Also, as we think this will further deepen it will come to the proposal of the Financial Business Act where it is strictly stated that state-owned enterprises will have to pay within 60 days. This Law on payment deadlines adopted by the former authorities means it has been adopted in accordance with European Union directives. Unfortunately, there have been some technical problems in the implementation itself, and we are working on how to do the technical part. However, it is certainly a clear message that their obligations, regardless of who is by the state, must be carried out. So that the Ministry of Finance, which follows at the monthly level, will monitor the liquidity situation of companies owned by the Republic of Croatia, will report and mean and actively lead means that it is not found by chance. That in fact some entrepreneurs would just because a state-owned company didn't pay him to find out in those problems. I also know that, by letting the law go into public debate, there have been objections, in fact, that it will not be published, that we publish private entrepreneurs. No, and all those state-owned companies that are doing their dues are going to be published. So the criteria are all the same, so there's no indication that they're actually going to be privileged by anyone in these state-owned enterprises and they have to be aware of the meaning of the responsibility they've assumed by way of a degree of duty. So to clarify these things, so there are no privileged ones, so all businesses will also have to submit to the state firm. There were also speeches somewhere unfortunately media that actually, privates will be responding with their property state-owned no. Nowhere does it say in the law, so all those where we talked about abuse of responsibility will refer to all those companies that work in the private sector, as well as those that have actually offered themselves as a management solution in state-owned enterprises. So this part of the law, especially the application of this law and, in fact, the exceptions to it, will actually be a big part of the public and you in the Croatian Parliament. So we'll try to solve every deviation as soon as possible. It was then that the content already governed by the other law meant that it was the content already regulated by another law, and in this sense it was necessary to reconsider the possibility to re-scath the content of certain laws. It is considered to be a breach of a legal personality where it is not accepted for reasons to ensure that members of a company are responsible for the abuse of tax-debt relationship rights solely because of the failure to fulfil the obligations of the tax-debt relationship through the administrative procedure. Thereafter, it was suggested that instead of the proposed erasure, the solution so far to which executed natural persons are responsible for the debt and property represented by the matrimonial property was also not accepted. Since a constitutional action has been brought in respect of the disputed provision. In practice, the provision proved non-injurious because the courts rejected the proposals for enforcement and insurance by virtue of that provision on the basis of that provision without the predetermined matrimonial property in the case of a court dispute. The duration of court disputes would regularly lead to the existence of an absolute limitation of payment rights. They also suggested that it was of the interest of the Republic of Croatia, meaning when we introduced the proposal or the possibility to collect the debt by giving rise to real estate. I agree with the proposal, meaning that in this part the goal of the state budget is actually to charge in money, not to pay in real estate. But we said in the case of a special state interest where, in fact, where we exist on exceptional cases, where there are that here we have an example, that the state is in the rented space of that entrepreneur. And actually where we're already paying means the burden of that state budget, we're paying the rent of that space. In such cases, if the debtor finds himself in trouble and in agreement with the debtor, in fact, the state that pays all that space will. So by giving in to such a property, it's actually a way of considering, of beating up a tax debt. There was also talk here that, that these properties would be made public, that these properties would actually be made public. As you know, any such procedure for real estate concessions must pass the government's approval so that all these procedures where debt settlement will actually be settled through real estate concessions, will be publicly published on the government's pages, meaning when making and taking such decisions. There were also talks and questions as to whether a member, a secret member of a secret society, was also concerned with this part of the breach of legal personality. We also say that, we answer that, since the secret society is the Law on Commercial Society is not a legal person and has no company. However, in that respect, Article 41(1) and (2) A secret society in which the relationship between a secret member and a member is governed by a contract, and a secret society where there is no contract, shall be subject to the provisions of the Association Act on Mandatory Relations. And we're saying that he also, to him, also refers to this way of abuse of authority. There have also been discussions in individual and joint debates here, whether this part of the change of claims can be completed with units of local, regional and regional self-government. Our answer is actually that it can, but it's actually the decision of every municipal, individual or city council where actually decisions on the restructuring of such debts must actually be made by local self-government, which is responsible for the budget. And that actually you, that individual decisions actually to break debts and demand individual entrepreneurs can be carried out with... But we say in that part we're not inherent means we're introducing it into the general tax code. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But there is, there is that possibility. Unfortunately, through the discussions we had on the general tax law and through GSV, where I was present and through various, different associations. We're recently, in which day we'll be on... invited to a round table. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, one is being run, I don't know how to define, one bad media campaign, against this being, this is about that entrepreneurial law. So I say no, since I say I come from... I can't understand how this is where you're trying to bring order of financial into discipline and where you're actually trying to do this part actually, just give support to those who pay neatly, fulfill their obligations. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you saw these changes and the intensities of the Government of the Republic of Croatia are not intended publicly to embarrass someone, to publish their data, to act responsibly in the state. How can I tell you, when I was talking to the FINO, when you were talking about entrepreneurial measures in the conversation with the FINO, the financial agency received information that last year 53,000 entrepreneurs failed to submit three years of financial reports, 53 entrepreneurs did not submit financial reports for three years. I don't know what to say to you, I don't know how we do any structural problems in Croatia when 53,000 companies don't hand over annual financial reports then ask yourself how to start reacting to everything, so with all the announcements, it means where there are criminal penalties, where the Accounting Act you have to do this, then you see what chaos we're actually in, we won't be talking about what chaos we actually inherited. What chaos we inherited by actually solving everyday problems. However, the goal is to speak again of this General Tax Code and later when we speak through which week and the Financial Business Act is precisely support for entrepreneurs, support for businesses. Those who believe that this section refers against them do not know whether entrepreneurs can be considered those who do not pay their country. The other day I said on a Transparency International board exactly that I should repeat here the size of the tax, the one who pays that we should speak to the one who pays the tax debt and that the size of patriotism is exactly based on it. And that, unfortunately, tomorrow there will be a reprogramme proposal for who knows which time. So we're rerouting but we're constantly trying to stabilize the economy that's in an extremely difficult situation, and so I'd like to ask you to actually support the general tax law. And in the last debate I saw here no matter what club it was, my personal opinion was a general one of the support to introduce a financial order. Here we can say in these little things, so finesse means technical things to make things better so that some things don't go wrong. But I'd like to ask you, so in this part of it, when we're talking about introducing financial discipline, I think it's common interest to support this law and introduce order, that we finally stop talking about non-payments to those who owe the state, etc. but to finally start talking and actually about some positive things and that actually that one negative image we have now in the economy we turn it into a positive one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10930	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the rapporteurs want the working bodies of the Legislative Committee or the Committee on Finance and the State Budget? Yeah. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget, respected Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10931	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear deputy with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget discussed the report on the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Tax Law at its 13th session on 26 June this year. Short. The Committee discussed the following opinions. It is a pleasure to note the comments made by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament in the first reading of the law. It is also commended by the way in detail that every article of this law has been explained which makes it easier to understand all the provisions of the proposed law. We have two opinions. They are related to the Final Bill where Article 26a would be. Paragraph 1 should be amended in the sense that the members of the administration, the executive directors of the capital company, do not respond as tax guarantees if they have a decision to conduct certain transactions by the Supervisory Board or the Assembly and one opinion that is related to, to be taken into account, given that they will also be discussed soon also on the Financial Business Act and pre-departure arrangement so that, if state firms do not comply with their obligations within 60 days, they would leave the possibility of calling and publishing a list of state firms for not fulfilling their obligations to entrepreneurs. And of course the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided to support most of the votes these amendments to the law, 6 votes to, 2 votes against and 1 vote abstention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10932	Thank you, too. I'm opening a debate. We are going to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The first club is the Social Democratic Party of Croatia in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Dragica Zgrebec. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10933	Thank you, Vice President, Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. These changes and additions allow the publication of tax debtors, i.e. the change of the definition of tax debt, the establishment of a legal personality breakthrough institute, i.e. the establishment of an Institute of Tax Guarantee and Personal Responsibility, and enables a breakthrough of debt and claims towards the state budget as well as mutually or mutually debt settlement through the acquisition of real estate. After the first reading, some of the provisions discussed by the deputy minister and we also support them. The publication of taxpayers aims to strengthen financial discipline, to meet the tax obligations of all parties in a timely manner, to increase the efficiency of tax authorities at the time of collection, and to ensure the public conduct of the Tax Administration. Under the conditions of high general indifference that has been accumulated for years and has not been dealt with by effective measures by more and more economic operators but also by citizens cannot service their obligations. The tax administration recorded more than 51 billion kuna claims of more than 760,000 taxpayers, which are largely inaccessible. Although the law on three occasions allowed tax debtors to regulate their obligations, we are also on the agenda to re-translate the deadline for this purpose, the results were weak. These amendments and additions to the General Tax Code introduce an institute for breach of the legal personality which is regulated by other regulations but in this case only as a tax guarantee which, in the event of intentional avoidance of the obligation, corresponds to its property and the procedure is conducted as an administrative procedure. This should be said is not a blow to entrepreneurs or to prevent entrepreneurial activities and freedoms as some discussions try to show already a measure of preventing the fraud of creditors. The law on commercial societies in Article 10 regulates this institute of breach of legal personality in the third paragraph as a general abuse, i.e. it is necessary to prove its guilt and, in the fourth paragraph, as a presumption of guilt. And that's when it's said that it comes to the use of society to achieve the goal it's normally forbidden, when a society is used to damage its creditors, when, contrary to the law, the property of a society is used as if it's private, its private property, and when it reduces the property of a society in its own or other way, and knows or has to know that society's obligations cannot be settled. Therefore, responsibility does not exist simply because society cannot meet its obligations but also has to meet additional circumstances. This measure will be taken in the event of the withdrawal of assets and assets by members of the company, the association of companies in order to avoid payment or avoidance of the withdrawal of funds, the issuing of fictitious accounts, the payment of advances of profits even though the company is inequitable, the sending of debtors to pay their liabilities in private or other accounts than to the company's account, the transfer of the share of assets to a newly established company and the remaining liabilities, etc. These are all observed actions that are rarely sanctioned under the Commercial Society Act, and proceedings before courts are long lasting. In the sense of the General Tax Code, the determination of abuse of the right is where tax debt cannot be charged by other means. And that the very announcement of these amendments to the law also speaks the fact that more tax and contribution are being made to the former debtors. Unresponsible entrepreneurs should be prevented from destroying a healthy economy because the non-payment that is planned means fraud and criminal acts but also unfair competition. In April, 43.47 billion kunas of outstanding payment obligations were registered and this problem requires urgent resolution. The bankruptcy proceedings in Croatia are inefficient and mainly lead to the liquidation of society. It is therefore necessary to seek more adequate measures to enable entrepreneurs to be restructured in order to restore liquidity and insolvency, and those unable to remove it from the business mile. The SDP Club will accept amendments and additions to the General Tax Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10934	Thank you very much. The next representative on behalf of the HDZ club Matina Dalic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10935	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister. So here's the first reading we've discussed extensively different aspects of this law and I think we've agreed that what's kind of understood as the fundamental objective of the law, and that's strengthening financial discipline is something that everyone agrees on. As a result, there were many observations and suggestions on how to improve the law, some of which were partly accepted. However, bearing in mind this objective, which is to strengthen financial discipline and prevent financial discipline from ending and to be realised at the expense of those who are orderly and high-quality tax payers, bearing in mind this objective we have also analysed this final bill. However, we believe that there are still a number of provisions in this final draft of the law that in some ways leave an open question to what extent, how and how this objective will be achieved. In line with this, the HZD also submitted a series of amendments to the provisions of this law, and the first issue to be imposed is already under Article 1 and this famous paragraph 7 of the new law which is being added and which opens up the possibility of public publication. According to the current proposal of the applicant, public disclosure is possible for value added tax, contributions, profit tax, income tax and tax tax, thus entering the area of local self-government tax in a segment of public publication. However, it is unclear why public publication does not include a special tax on petroleum products, a special tax on tobacco processing, beer, coffee, non-alcoholic beverages, real estate tax and customs duties. This, of course, raises questions related to the objective of the applicant regarding the transparency of this publication and opens up the possibility of, of course, not including all tax forms, opening up the possibility for certain taxpayers to benefit from the publication itself. It is not really clear why if the applicant opted for public publication as an instrument for increasing tax discipline why some tax forms, and they are all in the supervision and activity of the Ministry of Finance's work, why would they be excluded from public publication. The only explanation that comes to mind is that these taxes that I have listed, so excise duties and customs, are carried out and charged by the customs administration. Well, I think it would be a good idea for all parts of the Ministry of Finance to be equally related to this definition of government and proposing. On the other hand, the applicant expressed great determination in the public announcement, but remained unclear when the public announcement would take place. It is good that the promoter has determined that debts of more than three months will be published, but I do not think it is good that the law does not determine anywhere and defines the dates on which the public publication will take place. This is how it turns out that public announcements may never be, so we are here to discuss it in vain. Therefore, regarding this issue, we will submit an amendment introducing and proposing the introduction of a new paragraph, with the dates of the publication of 31 July, 31 June, 31 January and 30 April according to age as proposed. Namely, there is no existence and inconclusion that these dates of publication I think it re-infringes transparency and I think it reopens space for possible tax bonds because the date, as I said, makes the moment of publication, remains for the discretionary decision of the IRS. And we think it's a matter in which discretionary decisions need to be reduced and minimised as much as possible. The general tax law introduces something that has never existed before, which is to conclude an administrative contract or a settlement for the execution of a tax solution. The question of the conclusion of an administrative contract or of a settlement for the execution of a tax solution is defined only in one sentence. Nowhere in the law and in the proposal, there is no mention of what criteria a taxpayer would have to meet in order to make a deal. Nowhere is said who is he who will approve the settlement and also nowhere, in any way the law does not define what could then be the conditions of such a settlement. We hold that, once again, by a shrewd provision, if the possibility of a settlement is already being re-opened, the non-transparentity in the course of action and the possibility of acquittal to certain taxpayers is reopened. We therefore propose that the permit to make a settlement is made by the Minister of Finance and that such agreements be published also on the website of the Ministry of Finance which will contain the name and last name of those taxpayers with whom the settlement is concluded and what is the level of the settlement and a brief description of the terms of the settlement. Since it is a new instrument, given that it is an extremely complex system such as a tax administration that is also regionally deployed, it means by county, such a vague definition opens up the possibility that at lower levels of the tax administration they make any settlements without any guarantee that there will be any control over it. Finally, the promoter rejected or did not adopt an objection concerning the collection of real estate taxes in exceptional cases, as it says here. However, allowing a tax debt to be paid in real estate is contrary to Article 2 of this same General Tax Act, which says that the tax is a monetary payment and income of the state budget. Therefore, since this provision and this article has not been clarified in the additional and in the final proposal, we will propose an amendment to delete this item. We have delivered the amendments to the Bureau of Parliament, and in case the proposing accepts amendments, the HDZ will be able to support the law. In the event that these amendments are not accepted, we will not be able to support this law because we hold that although this fundamental objective, which is this highly highlighted, is that certain legal norms violate the possibility and ability to meet this goal and raise the final question and its emphasis. And finally, one small comment to the deputy minister's statement, I didn't want to react with a replica, and this is about 53,000 entrepreneurs who haven't submitted a financial report in the last three years. What do you want to do? The same thing that was done last year, make a list, send a letter to the Ministry of Justice and ask commercial courts to request the removal from the court register. That is why last year we changed the Law on the Court Register because the publication of the procedure for eradicating the register is possible and sufficient by publishing on the websites of the courts and the Ministry of Justice. As we can see, the courts do it for those who were delivered to them last year, and the same number of tens of thousands, and the only thing that can be done is to delete and delete them and ask the courts to do the job as quickly as possible, because ultimately, the courts were in the official capacity to do so and to do so. And if they haven't performed or performed slowly before then they should simply be reminded of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10936	Thank you, too. Mr. Lalovec, Deputy Minister of State has come to the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10937	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Just for a little while, the answer for these 53,000 companies that have not submitted financial reports. What you said about erasing, yes, we know and we're working on it, and we're going to go out with the numbers very quickly to see how up-to-date the courts were in erasing it than I just wanted to point out the situation in the economy and the state and seriousness of 153,000 companies that don't hand over financial reports. That was the purpose of seeing what problems we face in the economy and that it was the goal of putting order in place. And this part of the technique we support you and there we will certainly be in that part very active to actually separate from those who are entrepreneurs. But I just wanted to say 53,000 companies that don't hand over financial reports to ask ourselves a little bit about these entrepreneurs in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10938	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. Next is the club of Croatian Labourist-Stranke Rada, representative Branko Vukšić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10939	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. At first I can say it's still moving. Croatian Labourists have supported the adoption of this law in their first reading, will support it now, with us thinking there is still time for some of the repairs that counterpart Dalic used to say. Is it anti-entrepreneurship law or is it actually a law that makes it possible to increase financial discipline? The most important thing is whether this list of entrepreneurs, individuals, is a wall or a pillar of shame or is actually one of the measures that will force them to commit themselves to the state, or to society. Actually, does anyone have a right to a secret if they're committing a crime against the state? I think many will agree that there are no secrets for a crime against the state, and non-payment of taxes and contributions and concessions is one of the most serious crimes that organized states do not forgive. So tax is not forgiven. You know, I'm sure everyone that Al Capone didn't fall for multiple murders, dozens, hundreds of murders, but he fell for not paying taxes. It was easier for him to prove he didn't pay taxes than murder, and that's why he spent seven and a half years in prison. Of course, the biggest problem is those Croatian citizens who do business, who do not report business, who do not report their jobs, who have huge wealth, who should pay taxes to the state and do not pay them. They have villas, they have yachts, they have several cars that are more expensive than real estate citizens of his entire street, but they don't pay that tax. It's certainly not finding such people, the task of tax administration, but it's the task of the state. How rigorous they are in the capture of non-payers, the demonstration of non-payments, the punishment of non-payments in the world in Western democracy in our neighbouring countries speaks enough and some data. You remember for sure, especially the older ones, that Sophia Loren almost ended up in prison, she shouldn't have gone to her own country because she didn't pay the tax, which she failed to pay, which they found. Since the European football championship Samuel has just ended, the former Barcelona football player has suppressed 3.5m euros in taxes in Spain, but they have found him and will return that money and will pay the fine. One of the world's well-known actors, Wesley Snipes, started serving or serving 3 years in prison for failing to pay his taxes because he didn't pay his taxes. Boris Becker was sentenced to two years of parole for failing his taxes, which he didn't pay his taxes. Mark Anthony also paid $2 million in fines because he was a messy tax payer. Dolce & Gabbani is also being tried for hiding a billion euros in taxes. What happens to us is there are still a number of other tax evasions, and I say that because you see that it's very easy when the rule of law works, whenever it's wanted, when there's political will, and when it's simple to establish that formula, there's no forgiveness for paying taxes that it's possible to do so. Let's say motorcycle champion Valentino Rossi is also under investigation for tax evasion. You know he had a big problem with the tax collectors, Luciano Pavarotti, the deceased, that he went bankrupt, and he didn't pay taxes. And then all the media in the world wrote about it. We're now wondering if it's fair to publish these people, put them on the list and say they don't pay. Yeah, it's fair. It's unfair not to pay taxes. Of course, you need to see why people are private, which is why craftsmen, which is why companies can't pay taxes, can't be on that list if these companies are owed by someone else, especially if they owe them a state. So we should play a fair game. We've heard dozens and hundreds of people in public life who have more property than they've been able to afford. What does that mean? Either they're dealing drugs or, say, when it comes to singers singing and getting fees, they call it solar, on their hands, money by the sun they get. And what's been done most of the time? Most of the time it's been done, they say these people were invited to talk and they said my moms didn't and it mostly ended up on this mother, and I didn't. I hope that this power is really going to roll up the sleeves and that what we're talking about today is going to work that I think that 55 billion or 40 billion and some billion real small things about what's actually hiding in the gray economy. So it should be said that in Italy 48% of income does not apply to the tax office. That's 300 billion euros or 19.2% of GDP. Great Britain has 12% undeclared income, Belgium 10, Sweden 7, but how much is Croatia? Who knows who's gonna figure it out? I think 50 billion is a very small sum to what's in the gray economy. The grey economy certainly, economists say, is the same exhaust valve, safeguards social peace. However, if we want a legal state, if we want a regulated state and if we want a fair state, then we must not be unfair to those who pay taxes, to those who are not competitive because they regularly pay salaries, which they regularly pay taxes, which are regularly paid contributions until others pay contributions, without simply paying taxes can be easier to do. This country must no longer tolerate it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10940	Thank you, too. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the CNS, Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10941	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear deputy, colleagues and colleagues. So the HNS Club and in its first reading supported this law, a law that certainly would not have appeared before the Croatian Parliament that we did not find 51 billion likely to be a chargeable 25 billion debt which taxes, income taxes, income taxes, etc., which is already mentioned and which is essentially the cause which is a good part of the cause which is a very bad situation in the economy, which is the reason that the colleague just spoke and partly incompetence of Croatian entrepreneurship and Croatian economy because the one who does not pay the tax can certainly be more favourable and competitive on the market than the one who does so neatly. And no taxpayer, legal or natural person, will surely not support this law and verbally true, all those who pay are certainly willing to support this law because the law in which the state protects its citizens, the state protects taxpayers' money, protects those who are neat and work quality, pay their obligations, surely pay our obligations to suppliers we are not towards the Croatian state. This law helps to kill money that is not from those you have not paid, but taxes from Croatian citizens end up in the budget not for spending as it has been done so far. For pre-election promises in quotes "maintaining social peace", but literally and clearly to all those projects that this coalition government has made according to all those quality projects that are going towards growth in the economy, investments. And according to all those projects that go towards relief in the labour economy on the market. Reduction of contributions to healthcare, subsidies, assistance to small and medium-sized enterprises. So, this money that the current government, the previous, previous government allowed, the previous two governments to kill, allowed to rise to a level of 51 billion, almost half of the Croatian budget is something we must charge and quickly return to the economy for development. The final proposal of the Law amending the Tax Debt Payment Measures Act is one of the measures that we know to be a difficult economic crisis in this situation, so we provide all those, so the bill that will come to the plenary session very quickly. It's one of the measures that ensures the economy of the one who has the chance to make his job easier, his job. That the market works in quality and compete in all those competitions that start from the public sector, from energy, from all, from Croatian forests, Croatian waters. So that they can work qualityly, so that they can pay taxes and orderly hire and pay contributions and raise gross products. This application of the law is to kill the key, to prove to Croatian citizens that this government, that this coalition really implements laws and laws intended for development and the laws intended for justice. Expecting the Financial Business Act and the Pre-emption Act together with this law, we can always say that this is a package that this coalition government is prepared and clearly introducing order not only in taxes but in a situation in the economy and in the market. One of the questions clearly answered by the deputy minister and the questions that have often arisen is the issue of payments by state-owned companies. Since almost 75% of the total payment turnover in Croatia is either related to the public sector, state or local self-government or public company, it is clear that the regulation of the situation itself, i.e. orderly and regular payment by the state or public sector of state companies. And that answer that Mr. Deputy gave is one important thing and an important message. So we are not introducing the law to just charge, but also the responsibility that everyone in the public sector will have to carry out their obligations neatly, that in the currency of payments that we naturally expect under the Financial Business Act is 30 or 60 days. They ensure that this investment cycle and that the trade capital that is extremely important to rotate as much as possible means that the currency is reduced. It ensures not only the orderly payment of commitments but the quality of growth and the development of the economy. It is certainly good to move the deadline to 3 months, that the amounts have increased, according to the bill. Surely it is not bad for the Ministry of Finance, or the IRS to have the opportunity to publish or not publish. But what matters is that every taxpayer has the option daily from his referent, from the tax administration services to obtain information about the state of his debt and to take care of it and to inform himself and not to come into this situation, which is called the publication. And even if it's called an announcement, it doesn't mean it's just a pillar of shame. This is a situation where every taxpayer in a situation can be found, but it does not have to diminish his reputation, especially because it is something that in life and in business can be part of a particular cycle. Of course, all of those together will now, with the opportunity to publish, try not to find themselves in such a situation. But I repeat once again what is crucial, it is crucial that state-owned companies and the public sector pay their obligations neatly and therefore certainly not entrepreneurs should be damaged in that segment. So the HNS club supports this law and supports all the laws that we call reform laws, so that from one chaos that has been found to take over, we have a neat state, but we also do that job that made us citizens bring us in, which is to take care of development and to take care of justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10942	Thank you, too. On behalf of HDSSB representative Ivan Drmic's club. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10943	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, gentlemen of the Ministry of Finance. The HDSB club will not be in favour when it declares this bill. We can't even say that we're against, that one of these problems that has existed in this country since the very beginning, certainly doesn't have to be solved in one quality way, by one quality law. This law that's on our desk today is certainly not like that. The fact is that this law has been rushed primarily because it could legally be published by people who have declared their tax obligations to the IRS and the Ministry of Finance and failed to pay them in time. And that's one of the reasons why we can't be in. It persists in this explanation, and listening to colleagues who discussed it before me, it is noted that two completely different concepts are being pursued. It's under one tax evasion, it's people who do business on so-called. To the black market, they deliberately want to fool the state and not pay their obligations arising from their business. That's embarrassing. Such men should be hunted, published, and placed on a pillar of shame. The other part of the people who are basically talking about this law are the people who do business in our homeland even in this recession. Fairly applying their tax and tax card handovers to both the IRS and the Ministry of Finance. However, because of the difficult operating conditions in the country, because of the already known crisis and recession they do not have enough money, they have not earned enough money to pay their commitments to the state. Such people are not to blame for coming into such a situation perhaps partly and by blaming the state itself, and I don’t think they should be put on a pillar of shame in this way, calling them and waiting for them, or forcing them to submit any requests for bankruptcy as soon as possible because they simply are not able to make another move. I also ask how many people will end up in the Employment Office, run out of work because in this way the state simply pushes these companies into bankruptcy. I also repeat once again a law like this, of course, in another form, is necessary but not at this time. The fact is that Croatia has not yet emerged from the recession, from the crisis, and we are also entering an even bigger crisis and recession. When we look through both the media and events in other countries and within the European Union, and beyond it, we see that the state has loosened a little in charging its obligations. Simply in this way, wanting to give the economy to get air, to encourage them to get new investments faster, to get new monetary values, and only then to pay taxes to the state. Our country's working backwards. While there was a lot of money on the market, while businesses did not pay much attention to the charge. However, today when every swear on the market fights, when there is practically no state doing its best to collect taxes. The Minister of Finance, the Prime Minister and ministers can't act in this government like they run some kind of private company. They simply have to worry about the Croatian economy, so that they can make the preconditions so that they can function normally, work, to earn money so that they can pay their obligations to the state. I would also point out that the banks in our country are mostly foreign-owned and that they behave very incorrectly in this crisis. There's a massive withdrawal of money, so they're trying to collect loans, they're pulling money out of the country, and the state is looking at it all. Of course the banks are watching what the state is doing in this regard. If he sees these entrepreneurs being published, that the state is blocking their accounts, they will simply rush to collect their debts before the state. They won't allow any credit reprogrammes that our economy and our entrepreneurs depend on. And that state will be one of the main culprits for the collapse of a number of entrepreneurs who, with a better flexibility of the state, would certainly not experience it. In the last three years since the start of the crisis, the state has not charged around six billion kunas without interest. So these are debts to the state that have been reported neatly, which have arisen, and the entrepreneurs have not been able to pay them. I guarantee you that a lot more money is reversed and debts are created on the black market. That means it's that tax debt that's not registered anywhere, so it's not in any papers, and the state would certainly have a much bigger income to introduce better business control through various inspections, so the agencies we're already paying. Also, this law leads to inequality. This law will put people who have not paid VAT, income tax, profit tax, taxes on taxes, taxes, and contributions to compulsory insurance. More or less, these taxes are due to all companies in the country that are involved in production. Honor the exceptions. But I ask the question what about customs? That's what they're called. import lobbys that destroy this economy. They import foreign goods, destroy domestic economies, sell and then don't pay the duties they owe. There's not a word about them in this law. Also a tax on oil, a tax on alcoholic beverages and a number of other things we can consider a luxury. So these are large capitals and import lobbys that are the cancer of our society and our economy, they're spared by this law. I finally stress once again that such a law is safe with this name needed in our country, but not at this moment when we are entering a deeper recession but at some point when the state makes all the necessary preconditions for the recovery of our economy. We will be abstentions on this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10944	Thank you, too. On your presentation, we have a correction of the incorrect allegations, MP Domagoj Hajduković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10945	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague, I must correct two of your allegations incorrectly. The first is that it is the sole intention of this law to publish taxpayers. If you had studied the law a little bit more thoroughly, you would have seen that there is a debt-prolonging institute, so that it is possible to agree on debt prolonging, and that these business entities, i.e. business entities, which opt for debt prolongation, will become regular payers. So, if your debt is agreed with the state, you'll pay it off. And as for the unequal position, I would disagree. The laws of this country should apply equally to all and to the IRS. Those who don't pay taxes must be so under the same conditions I say let's call it so conditional.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10946	Thank you. We're done discussing clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate. MP Domagoj Hajdukovic first applied. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10947	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister with his associates. Well, here's the last time I discussed this law, and I started with one word at last. I think that's how you should start now. Finally, we will have the opportunity to vote in favour of this legislative proposal, which will then begin and apply in our country. Finally, we are introducing order into the IRS, which is paid, tax traffic, and I reiterate that the laws apply to everyone. I think this law is coming at the right time, because it should have been passed long ago and similar measures should have been passed long ago. I therefore commend the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration above all those who put themselves on the job, who had both the courage and the will and the will and the desire and the Elena in this way and so seriously approach this extremely important issue. The tax administration's up-to-date work has also led to an increase in tax collection, i.e. some tax debts are now entering lawsuits and so on, and I'm actually wondering what's been waiting until now. Why did some debts simply ignore themselves? So, I think it's inappropriate practice. Why does all this matter? So if you ask me one of the main tasks of this government is to introduce liquidity into our market, and by introducing liquidity, I also believe that the state regularly serves its obligations. However, if the state has no income, unless it charges taxes, if it ignores the debtors then the state has no income from which it could service its obligations and then we are in that vicious circle of borrowing, high interest and so on. which is certainly unacceptable in this difficult time recession. That's why I think it's a good time for this law, even too long to wait. Let me look back on the changes to the IRS. He has come across the biggest criticism so far, but I would say that the basic question that we need to ask ourselves is by criticising this change in the Institute of Tax Secrets, whether we want to introduce order or not, because it is the core and key of this issue. I think the basic goal is to introduce order, but if we want to introduce order, I think this measure will serve its purpose, or that some employers will not allow themselves to afford their reputation to be on this pillar of shame. But I am still pleased that the ministry has adopted certain adjustments, these have already been mentioned by colleagues, so only after 100 thousand kunas for legal persons and after 300 and for taxpayers after 15 thousand. I think it's correct and that these amounts we're talking about are more real. I've already mentioned the institution of debt prolongation, so that's something I would certainly point out as commendable. The state is now giving its hand to the debtors and says we can and we want to make a deal. But we can't negotiate so that the state ignores the debt or does not charge it. Some charge some do not charge, this gives everyone the opportunity to serve their debts to the state to become a regular payer and therefore to have a clean face toward the state but then I would say to myself. And let me finish with one thought, being obliged is not a sin, but cheating on the believers is. And that is why I believe that this law is moving in the right direction because cheating on the believers is also a sin but also a crime. We know how it has been done so far as some entrepreneurs have jumped it, they've opened up new companies, for services provided by certain companies, the contracting authorities would pay other gyro accounts to other firms, etc. and thus the companies that were in the blockade remained so that the tax administration had already blocked remained in the blockade, the state did not charge taxes, and other companies were doing business by providing services to the company that was in the blockade. The fraud, ladies and gentlemen, is illegal in this country, and that is why I consider it not only a moral act but in any case a justifiable act that those who cheat and respond and gossip and personal property. I think it is a basic prerequisite and a cornerstone of the introduction of financial order into the Republic of Croatia. Because of these facts especially because of this last one, I certainly welcome the law. I say once again, congratulating the ministry, congratulating the minister and his associates, congratulating the Tax Administration, and therefore this law will have full and unreserved support for me as a taxpayer, a citizen of the Republic of Croatia and a parliamentary representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10948	We have three replicas on your display. First responder, Agent Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10949	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's colleague Hajdukovic you say is finally in line, finally the same rules for everything and you can raise your hand for it. But does this bill really introduce the same rules for everyone and close any doubt that some are not privileged? I call on you to read again Article 7 where an exact sentence is introduced that the tax authority can conclude an administrative contract or a settlement in order to implement the tax solution and it does not have to publish it. We've been going with the amendment now, and I've just given the line so you can answer if you're going to support that amendment because otherwise you know we live in a country where there's doubt if you have a debt you can invite some politician, some minister, some prime minister with you to dinner, for a holiday, etc. Make a deal, it doesn't get published, and then we're all the same in front of the law? So we need to make things right, really, that the same rules apply to everyone. Here's my question, will you support this amendment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10950	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica by Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10951	Well, thank you. Your Honor, I'd actually like to answer the question, do you know the possible problems of your own experience or your party's experience so far? I am firmly convinced that since this authority in the Banski dvori is not working or will be done, and in addition, the deputy minister's representative said that your amendments concerning technical matters will be respected. So yes, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10952	Thank you. Next, Ivan Drmic reported on the replica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10953	I would not agree with a respected colleague that this law will finally be the same in front of the state and in front of its authorities especially in front of the IRS and the Ministry of Finance. This law is one of the moves of this new government that sticks the last nail into a coffin of eaten entrepreneurs. The crowd of people I know personally paid salaries, and they stayed due a month to two for taxes and contributions. Today, however, this country has adopted such a rule that salaries cannot be paid until taxes and contributions are paid. Today we do not have a situation where salaries are paid and taxes and contributions are paid. We have a situation where there are no more salaries, no more taxes, no more contributions. I also repeat once again what I have said in my presentation, the taxes to which this law applies relate to the tax on production activities in our country. I'll give you an example, let's say recently there were protests of peasants, if Dukat imports milk from France and does not pay 20, 30, 40 million kuna customs will not be covered by this law, he will not be put on a pillar of shame due to unpaid customs duties. It also applies to OMV, INA and other companies if they import fuel and remain in debt to customs several tens of millions of kunas will not be published on the pillar of shame. But my neighbor who has crafts and remains in debt 100 thousand kunas of VAT, taxes, contributions, because his debtor did not pay him he will be published in daily newspapers, on the websites, will be put on a pillar of shame regardless of what he neatly reported tax and of his obligation to the state he does not flee. So, he would disagree that everyone in front of the state will be equal, especially since these agreements that are mentioned can only be approved by the minister. You can think in this crisis, the recession, when we have tens of thousands of companies who have remained in debt tax will certainly want to make a deal with the state in some way through some real estate or any kind of break-in. How much work would one such minister have...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10954	Thank you. Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10955	If you sat down and solved all those deals that were offered to the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10956	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, MP Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10957	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague, as I was saying, actually in the presentation, I'll do it again. Taxes and contributions are required to pay all, regardless of the production activity, service activity or another. I don't see any problems here, in fact, the bigger the problem was that after 10 years, workers would find out they weren't being paid taxes and contributions, and all because of the untimely reaction of the competent institutions. So I don't see anything controversial here. Taxes and contributions should be paid by everyone. And then I ask you, do you advocate that the state begin to forgive taxes and contributions? Where we're going to come from, where we're going to pay for our pensions, where we're going to pay for social aid, where we're going to pay for the salaries of people who work in state institutions, public services, etc. Therefore, I don't think that it should be tolerated and that one of the ways we need to introduce tax, but also financial discipline is that everyone must be equal before the law and all must be treated the same. There are models, i.e. the law left models for the taxpayer to settle for the state, so that he can try to pay back his debt, but all his debt must pay because eventually it turns out that fools are the ones who paid taxes, and those who are not and will be forgiven for being in a difficult financial situation. And that's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10958	Thank you. We have another replica, representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10959	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Hajdukovic, it would all be a beautiful story if no workers, ordinary people and their families were hiding behind all the problems. Here's an example directly from our neighborhood. I've been at the head of the Bizovaski Spa Supervisory Board for six, seven years. So it's a company that was created in '88. In the year, it was built by the Croatian state in such a way that only 209 rooms were built on 24000 square meters. It is a spa original, natural spa for rheumatical diseases which is in multimillion losses because it pays directories and bills for 24000 square meters, and in 209 rooms you can accommodate a total of 250 people. Huge corridors, empty spaces. 125 workers are employed, and today they're threatening bankruptcy. Business spas are required to tax the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia built a hospital OFMIR 7-8 years ago, 200 meters across from Bizovačske spas where people are being treated but not in medical water because the hospital has no concession for healing water but has an INA that was also a state-owned company. These debts have been accumulated for years for taxes, the state has spent money in Bizovačka spas, spent money in OFFIMIR, can't cooperate with each other, have no concession, even two empty kitchens where 20 people work in Bizovačka spas can't cook food for that hospital over but drive food three times every day from Osijek to Bizovac, and everything is owned by the Republic of Croatia. Business spas owe taxes to the state, they can't pay it, and 125 people are gonna lose their jobs. '75. the years were created by Bizovačka spas, the Municipality of Bizovac, Valpostina lives on it. They might be afraid to close this year. On the weekends 3 to 3.5 thousand people visit the Bizovačka spas, mostly pensioners who pay 10 kuna. It can happen this way, we can finally say in conditions in which the state should recognize its failures, its failures, no matter what government and government we are talking about, but when we talk about people, their families, the area we live in, we do a lot of damage. Finally, we can only say at that time when the economy really stood on its own feet, and sometimes the state itself was destroying itself. This is a direct example for you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10960	Thanks, buddy. We have a reply to the replica, MP Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10961	Thank you, Vice President. And my dear colleague, thank you for your example, but you immediately gave me an introduction, in fact, you've been in charge of the board of supervisors for so many years. Why something hasn't happened, I'm asking you. You had power, you had leverage, why you didn't. There are many ways to do this, there are several projects and ideas that can be solved, i.e. to create additional revenues to the Bizobe spas. After all, why are we in a position for the Croatian Football Federation to send our team to Slovenia for preparation, and why Bizovačka spas could not serve it, with the great possibilities not only of spas as such but also of sports fields that can be built around. So I agree with you that there are problems, and these problems need to be answered by rationalization. Rationalization is that word. Of course this government is going to need a little time to see where it wasn't being spent rationally, but I think it can be solved. Of course, workers are always the problem of workers and care should be for workers, but not at the cost of throwing money into a barrel without a bottom.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10962	Thank you, too. We're continuing an individual debate. Representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10963	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Deputy Minister with an associate, respected MPs, respected MPs. I will remind the introduction that the basic principle of the Croatian tax system is equality and justice, and this should in practice be evident in the even distribution of tax burdens and the settlement of public costs according to the economic strength of each individual taxpayer. On the other hand, taxpayers should settle their tax debts in due time because it is a presumption of the functioning of the state, as this is the assumption of the economic and social development of one society, each society, and so on Croatian. The State should therefore, on the one hand, reallocate the tax burden, and taxpayers should settle tax debts neatly on the other. But we know that's not the case. Tax bonds are too often convinced that the state is not just because it presses the weakest and takes out of the pocket the last lip, and on the other hand, the state is talking about tax evasion, i.e. a very widespread avoidance of tax payments. Unfortunately, we have to realize that both sides are right because obviously we have a major mess in this sphere, and this coalition government has decided to establish order and, above all, in the financial flows that represent the flow of each country, and when that circulation doesn't work, I'm going to say it in the medical dictionary of the financial instrument. Croatia, we could say, according to all indicators, and certainly the most eloquent of them is the amount of outstanding liabilities currently amounting to more than 43 billion kuna, so Croatia suffers all the symptoms of this financial instrument. Money doesn't drive, it doesn't invest, everything stands, there's no economic growth. However, aware of the fact that the economic crisis has further worsened the material status of both citizens and Croatian businessmen, the government did not base the concept of introducing order on repression, and this should indeed be pointed out. Therefore, not on repression, it gave economic operators a number of opportunities to regulate debts through the Tax Debt Payment Act caused by the economic crisis. Moreover, given that there may be too little time for economic operators, that they may not have been able to recognise this measure, the Government has decided to extend the time for its application to be discussed within the next few days, so the law will be amended in a way that, within 30 days of the date of adoption of the amendments and the addition of the law, the deadline for the notification of tax obligations, or for their regulation. Therefore, entrepreneurs will be given one additional opportunity to regulate their obligations to the state within that extended period, and when they do, they actually release one large burden, so they are able to do relatively normal business. Only after it had given the possibility to regulate the tax debt was the State, or the Government, to amend the General Tax Law, which proposes to remove veils from the data of those who use an incredibly rich arsenal method and ways of cheating on the state and, of course, honest taxpayers who, in addition to their obligations, have to pay for these and others' obligations. In this once radical environment, an entrepreneur who neatly settles his tax debts is experiencing a complete fool or the least pronounced inconsistencies of man. And I think it's actually an incredible attitude from my colleague Drmić, and we've just listened to him, who won't support this law, so he'll be restrained even though his neighbor will potentially find himself on a pillar of shame because some of his debtors didn't pay him back. I think, colleague Drmic, that this particular neighbor should support this law and I call on you to support it, so to pressure your neighbor's debtor not to be on a pillar of shame. In conjecturing changes and additions to the General Tax Law, the Government has shown both understanding and indeed great flexibility. This is seen by the fact that a number of good proposals and remarks from the debate in the first reading are included in the final proposal which will certainly improve this legislative proposal. Thus, for taxpayers, the lower limit of tax debt for publication has been raised from 50 to 100 thousand kuna, for a legal person from 100 to 300 thousand, and for all other taxpayers, so mostly citizens from 10 to 15 thousand kuna. It is important, however, that the amount of the debt to be published does not include the debts due in the last three months prior to the publication, as well as those debts for which the payment delay is granted, i.e. the periodical payment of the debt or the reprogramming of the debt is granted. The possibility is also introduced, however, as an exception, and when it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, that the taxpayer settles his debt to the State and by giving in to his real estate. For each commendation in the proposed law, the possibility of overcoming the debt of the debtors with claims that the obligor has according to the state budget. It is also commendable, although it is certainly not expensive for many entrepreneurs who have benefited from the co-regulation of this area, and these are the only ones that actually call this law anti-entrepreneurship, therefore amendments and additions to this law raises the question of the responsibility of the members of the tax liability society. Namely, the responsible person will be responsible for the unpaid or less paid tax as a tax guarantee and with his private property. One word, in conclusion, all of this, should contribute to the greater social responsibility of entrepreneurs and ultimately to the constitutional principle with which I started this debate, which is the even schedule of the tax burden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10964	Thank you. We have reported two corrections to the incorrect quote and one replica. The first to correct an incorrect quote was Mr. Ivan Drmic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10965	My dear colleague, you have misunderstood me. I am not against this law for my neighbor's sake. In part, I am also because of him, and unfortunately there are many such and my neighbours and your neighbours of all of us who will find themselves on that pillar of shame because they have done a fair business, fairly reported taxes, their debt to the state, but unfortunately because of this crisis, recession and partly the state's relationship with entrepreneurs were not able to earn and make a positive business to have enough money and pay taxes. So it's not just my neighbor, it's your neighbor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10966	Thank you. Next to correct the incorrect allegations, MP Franjo Lucic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10967	Thank you very much. Well, here's what I also want to replicate to my colleague, but here's Mr. Drmic actually said
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10968	You can't, you've corrected an incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10969	I'm correcting an incorrect assumption because my colleague said that the law should therefore be supported for the sake of its neighbours. I'm saying yes, but I'm correcting an incorrect quote because that same neighbor didn't deliberately come into this situation like some did or as it was here today. The intentional tax evasion, we mentioned, I don't know, people from other countries. So we're talking about a difficult situation that happened a year or two ago. And he who has done tax evasion shall be punished in an appropriate manner.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10970	Thank you. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10971	What's tax evasion? Which is tax evasion if he came... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10972	Thank you very much. You've finished your colleague Lucic. You're done, but this was still a replica. It's okay. We have one replica reported, Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10973	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Members, you mentioned the principle of equality before the law as the fundamental principle of the idea of leadership of this bill, so we can all, in principle, agree. But is that the same equality, for example? Importers may remain in duty to customs, not put on a pillar of shame, and others, for example, Because of the non-payment of VAT, it will still be. So, and what Drmic, a colleague of Lucic mentioned, we all have some neighbors there. So here's only in Samobor these first six months of this year, about 50 craftsmen had to close the crafts. And there is indeed this fear that some of those little ones will be put on a pillar of shame, while others will get away with it. So we have to address it, this law as it has to be fixed after all. There are some amendments that go in this direction so that this principle of equality is respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10974	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10975	... Excuse me. [[Specially enabled.]] So, I'm sorry about your self-fighter neighbours, as well as Mr. Drmic's neighbor. But I've been talking all the time, and I pointed out to my debate that those who don't pay should be sanctioned, so those who don't pay their neighbors or your neighbors' business associates. It's a question of equality, and I really call on you to support this law just to sanction such defaults. So your neighbors and your neighbors won't find themselves on that pillar of shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10976	Thank you. The following has been registered for discussion by a representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10977	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Deputy Minister. So I will relate to what the distinguished colleague said and say that this law protects all other honest entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia who, when they look at this list, will see a list of those who do not pay their obligations. And if they do not pay their commitments to the state budget with all due respect, there is a great possibility that these same persons will not pay their obligations to me, which I will do with them. And this will, among other things, be one good indicator of whether or not to enter a business relationship with a person, with an entrepreneur. And for that reason, in order to protect all our entrepreneurs, we have to publish this register. Since I was already speaking in my first reading of this law, I will try to look back at some of the doubts that have occurred in between these two readings. So I'd like to start by asking you a question about the premise of compensation. Many entrepreneurs have started yelling in a way at what is wrong with interest since the moment our tax obligations have come to pass. There's been an awful lot of interest, and the state hasn't paid us in the meantime, so it'll destroy us. The Law on Mandatory Relations, which applies to both the tax relationship and, inter alia, to the point of change, clearly states: "The beating is not carried out at the time when the statement is made, or not in the light of the circumstances set out in this Act, but when the claims have been met.". If the obligations of the State and the obligations of the entrepreneurs have reached, that is to say, the taxpayer to the State in some past time will be compensated without interest before the interest has begun to flow. However, I would ask the distinguished representatives of the tax administration and the ministry that what we have now introduced once again be used as the possibility of control, and precisely to control those liabilities of the state, those operations that the state has had with various entrepreneurs. So that the situation with FIMI media and similar companies would not repeat itself, and therefore once again, I ask you, really, before you access compensation, please check another obligation that the state has to the entities and if you notice anything, something illegal, something suspicious about them, please inform the State's Attorney General. The next thing we heard about today, the issue is public debt announcements. I agree and the government debt needs to be announced and debts to the state-owned firm should be announced. But here we are talking about the General Tax Law. The general tax law cannot regulate something that is not its substance, and the declaration of the debt of the state, i.e. the publication of the debt of the companies to which the State weighs, is not the issue of the General Tax Law, but I would warn that there are certain among other action plans to prevent corruption that regulated the way it will be published. And finally, in public, it was often talked about the breach of legal personality as one terrible attack on the freedom of the market, such as the fight against liberal capitalism and the like. However, those who talked about it failed to notice that the breakthrough of legal personality or what was called in English legal terminology lifting the corporation veil appeared in the United States 30 years ago. When the U.S. courts noticed that it was precisely an abuse of the possibility of not being held accountable for, as a rule, a limited liability society, or for their equivalent in American law that this is what violates the freedom of the market. Because certain entrepreneurs were using this very institution’s limitations of responsibility, that is to say, misappropriately to the obligations of their societies, then establishing new and new societies and leaving the believers empty pockets and rules before the collapse. And precisely from the countries of liberal capitalism comes this institute, it's not our invention, unfortunately it hasn't applied enough to us, but it's an institute that's in Western countries, not only generally accepted but is accompanied by extensive court practice. On the wings of this, the U.S. Tax Administration known and some would say the notorious intervening revival services have started to apply in the last few years and this very broad institute of breach of legal personality administratively on tax debts. And their actions, the U.S. courts, were very supportive. And precisely because it is believed that the tax must be paid and that the circumstances cannot be misused so as not to be held accountable. And we're only talking about this, not the attack on the freedom of entrepreneurship, on entrepreneurs, not the beating of entrepreneurs. It is the punishment of those who, by their behavior, prevent the money intended for the budget, which is intended for the construction of schools, kindergartens, halls, and instead ends up in private pockets for the purchase of yachts, expensive cars, etc. And my colleagues talked about it before, I'd point out here. The provisions of this law are not limited to those private-owned enterprises. The directors of state-owned enterprises will also have to be very careful not to act contrary to the provisions of this Act because, contrary to the provisions provided for by it, they will be able to apply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10978	Thank you, too. We have a replica on your exhibit, MP Martina Dalic. You're giving up? Thank you. We're moving on with an individual debate. A colleague named Igor Radinovic called. Here you go, my colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10979	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister with an associate. Well, it's obvious, there's a lot that's been said in both the first and second debates. It is evident that the Croatian economy is in crisis. But it is evident in this direction that Croatian society is also in crisis in many segments and that in the crisis it is moral and non-taxation, i.e. Conscious non-payment of taxes is one of the segments of these crises. So in some other countries, something that has been cut off, for which an account has been issued and the non-payment of such an account simply not only in the case of tax obligations but also in all other segments, should not simply be the subject of this law. But Croatia is obviously a different country. There are 52 billion outstanding tax claims here, some 26 billion of which are active and can still be charged. 53,000 entities who have not submitted their reports for three years and the accumulation of all the negative consequences behind this are, in fact, the general indifference of the economy. Today that number is stagnating, but it's alarmingly large. So, 43 billion kuna. The objective inability to charge each other among entrepreneurs. It means the ineffectiveness of the bill. All of this has a significant impact on the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, the economies that enter a better or better regulated market within a year, the European Union market, because our competitiveness will, if we do not do something urgently, and the government does everything with a package of these laws, and part of this makes the Croatian economy become transparent both on this side and competitive. I say, unless we do something, I'm afraid the first of July next year will not be such a happy date, but also to cause problems for the Croatian economy if we do not do so in any way. Therefore, public disclosure of the data is based on records available by the Tax Administration on those taxpayers who failed to comply with obligations and tax debts in due time with the clearly prescribed, legislation of the prescribed criteria. Therefore, and brought between these two readings is only one of the instruments which seeks to encourage the financial discipline of taxpayers to meet their tax debts in due time, but also to influence the awareness of all taxpayers about the necessity and participation in the settlement of tax debts, which is a decisive thing for the functioning of the rule of law. She was talking about her colleague, Jelesh, about righteousness. One American proverb you know about what two things must be done, so just die and pay taxes says something about it. And that regaining the awareness and trust of Croatian citizens in the functioning of the rule of law, in the justice of the system, the justice of the state as a whole is one of the fundamental tasks of this government. Therefore, it is an inseparable part of this package and everyone else, so the financial discipline tax proposals. It's inseparable and this package, so it's about reprogramming. They spoke very critically from the HDSSB. So this government has already made the second move and invited all entrepreneurs in view of everything I have been saying, to reprogramme their obligations, to reprogramme them for 3 years, to 36 months, and to extend that deadline to introduce order on the financial market. As for the provisions themselves, I therefore commend what was done between the first and the second readings. So it's more clearly defined by the manual itself. It was one of the objections on the parent committees and in this assembly. So the manual was moved to those three months. The deadlines have been raised around the level of that debt and more clearly prescribed, and it is clear today and therefore these amendments and additions that the census will not contain a list of debts of those taxpayers who have received therefore a delay or a round-the-clock payment through the reprogramming, through this list I was talking about. Of course, conditio gives the son qua non everything, and that is why I am talking about this package of laws and regularly paying all the obligations of the state in particular to public enterprises, and that is what the task of this government is, but which is the fundamental objective, therefore, of introducing order on the financial market as a prerequisite for all other practical functioning of the rule of law as a whole. And in the end, perhaps not least, they talked about it in the opening letters. Therefore, the proposal for this law and the introduction of order on the financial market enables both the more transparent and better work of the Tax Administration to avoid tax evasion, so to avoid tax evasion. We understand, fellow Vuksic, if I am not mistaken, he was talking about some bright cases, it is clear that many of these and such cases exist with us. But when we solve this one on the one hand to say the regular work of the Tax Administration, then these huge capacities, and I remind you that there are thousands of people in the IRS, there are sophisticated systems, there are ultimately OIBs, these huge capacities will allow to avoid what has been clear these years that they are not being respected. So this basic principle of fairness and transparency of the tax system that did not work with this proposal will, I believe, allow everyone in all tax exposures, all of those I don't know what is the lowest act of registered tax. No, no, an official who from the Management Reference to the Honorable Director of the Tax Administration that when the light is directed at them and when transparent work is sought through and published by the tax authorities that he will do his job more consciously and responsibly. For, of the principal and these new people who came there, I have no doubt, but these down here I believe will be very welcome and this law. We therefore also support it as I spoke at the opening reading behind my colleague Hajdukovic, and then repeated now I can also repeat finally we have a good law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10980	Thank you, too. The next debate was registered by agent Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10981	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. When a law is already getting results in its own process, it is undoubtedly a good law. It is precisely the case with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Tax Law, when it is itself announced that it will go into the adoption of such a law has already begun to apply practically. We had in our recent past such laws that only brought results in the process, but they were drastically cut by the change of government. Because it's precisely because he didn't want to get those results. We are talking about economic crime and it is certain that the consequence of what we have today is that we have to change and this law, in particular, that provision, I will continue to call it the disgrace that we now need this public to deal with the general public with this problem that you have gained as a result of being inherited. I'd say political bargaining wasn't in those suits either in those bags or in certain donations that are now manifested so clearly to the courts but right through the operation of the IRS. There were political favorites, but there were also those political inexperiences who needed to be accounted for through the tax administration. And it's something that's so visibly and so evident that it's too scary. And it certainly has caused great revolt among citizens where such a single body, which is in the good part and repressively serves to deal with political insolents. And on the other hand, my friends, godfathers, and I don't know what kind of connected people they've been comfortable with. The example is why a number of cases that have already come into obsolescence but that is, with the expectation of changes in power have agreed to our courts, and yet we have tried to do something, where the court could only make a decision to suspend the proceedings because it was an outdated claim. And therefore, although it may already be too late to act in a normative way by changing the norm where all those who have not paid taxes to the State will be made public is a pity that we do not have a cartoon, this and that tax debtor cartoons who made it possible for him, this and that tax reference. That would be true, justice. Because here and now we're even outwitting each other, there are some differences, and those who made it possible, I believe, and I think it's now your greatest duty to literally identify those people. I don't say there's a thing that can be promoted, come up with some kind of mistreatment, negligence, but where there's an intention where it can be seen that the craftsmanship was therefore misused by its position to please someone in the most disgusting way, and that's this way. Because all that cost was borne by someone, and these are those who were left without their job at the end of the job because the tax was unevenly distributed. After all, that's always the way it is. Thus, these are works that are the same as the works of lawless construction. And we focused all our strength on lawless builders and those who didn't pay taxes. And we ignored all those who were obliged to prevent it if these things happened, and these are the things that are recorded, especially when the buildings appear, no one reacts. So all of this was made possible because someone was looking through their fingers or not doing his job, and he was even paid for it. And the question of whether he was still paid by these people and certainly not doing it with beautiful eyes anymore. So we should talk about it, and then really the citizens would believe us. This is all the same thing we can do to a parallel with criminal acts that in theory are called criminal acts of encounter that are impossible to do that there are no two things. Thus, tax evasion could not have been done without having not had the consent of a quiet or even open person by a certain tax act or person of a natural person. We often say government this government she, let's stop talking about it. There were honest people everywhere who did their job, unfortunately such people had suffered so far, and not only did they point out but they did not even point to other people’s failures but they worked consciously. You weren't wanted in such an environment. So it's no wonder that here's 51 billion we have outstanding debt, and that's what this government, the citizens, and all of them are meeting together, and the question is how to resolve it justly to the end. Because it seems to me still unfair to come to a pillar of shame by those, those companies, their owners, whom I thank this breakthrough for being included, however, who conduct long-term disputes with another legal person. And these proceedings last years and the state is again responsible because it is the one who has to take care of the speed of action and ultimately that person pays and taxes exactly to finance the judiciary in order to make it quick and effective so that he can collect his claim, whether it is about creditors, any kind of supplier of goods, services or any believer who has been asking for his justice for years and therefore they are potentially in trouble because they could not pay off their obligations. It would be very unfair to find such a person on a pillar of shame because it would then devalue the whole story that was well imagined. And whatever it is, even though it's not said here, such opportunities exist throughout the law and if we understand the whole spirit of the law to be implemented. Because I'm talking about this element of justice and justice, because people are very sensitive about it, especially through taxes. However, tax returns should also be taken into account. So we've had the usual practice so far because of this kind of thing where someone is tolerated so they don't pay taxes, and whoever subscribes is waiting for tax returns, doesn't welcome him, goes to his reference officer, and he tells him if he wants me to run you "will you continue to insist on returning" quotes "or should I lead your examination procedure". Well, if the state's gonna deal with blackmail, I think they're like that as soon as the IRS says he has to get suspended because blackmails aren't done by a civil servant. If a particular entity is so mature that it is subject to an examination, it shall be managed independently of whether it is seeking its tax return or not. And I'm going to say one more thing, but it's a global story but tomorrow we're going to be able to discuss as part of Europe and then the world and where this might seem to be a children's game when we deal with tax havens. While we're outsmarting ourselves here until the multinational companies pay here... Our infrastructure, they pay minimum taxes on what is most necessary, all profits are in the so-called so-called. Tax credits where they are exempt from such taxes. [[You don't understand.]] However, this began to be thought seriously as one of the greatest injustices. That's what the Justice Taxation Network is talking about, it's an international NGO that started a big campaign and a fight to eliminate tax returns because ultimately, the main tax would be paid where the company was registered. Justice would be satisfied there if taxes were paid where he was created, as is the rule of real estate. Taxation, therefore, does not matter who owns the property, real estate can have a legal destiny under the legislation of the country where it is located and so should be extended for this, and that is for the future which is just waiting for us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10982	Thank you, too. And last to discuss, Representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10983	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to base my discussion on indicators, so the source indicators from the economy. I will not base them on facts like my own colleagues used to say here, and if they had never worked in the economy at the same time, I will not speak as my colleague previously discussed in a legal way, and that at the same time she was never in the economy. And I will certainly speak of what is the right condition in which the economy today is. It is not good that today in this House some people talk about crime, do not distinguish what tax evasion is, do not distinguish what is legally taxed and that at the same time the company could not pay its obligation to the tax administration. No one is asking here today why certain companies have come to an existing situation. He doesn't wonder why, what circumstances. It all comes down to thieving and crime. So can we esteemed colleagues and colleagues here today discuss and say that all entrepreneurs are criminals who have a duty today to the tax administration. We are surprised that there are no businessmen in politics or in this House. Well, you know why they're not here, because they're all immediately declared thieves, so there's no use he wouldn't be in politics. And then it happens to us that we have a debate here today for individuals who have never spent an hour in the economy and that we all have been in the economy since '86. They've been teaching lessons for years. I'm asking you a question and I'm asking you and tell you if it's a criminal offence if someone's working, if they've created their entrepreneurship from complementary activity, crafts to businesses, and they've been doing business for 26 years. Is it the director or owner of that company a thief if in the last six or seven months he's been in some trouble. If for 25 years he has fulfilled his obligations to this society, the state, as you will, through contributions or better said through 25 million per year VAT based on 100 million and some total incomes, through 5 million kuna taxes and personal income contributions, which is 30 million, I am not talking about customs duties and other charges, which in 10 years means 300 million to you or for 20 years 600 million kuna. If this same company was in trouble six months ago to make a commitment to the tax administration at the same time, and where there was a reprogramme for the existing obligation is found in difficulties, from 30.11. comes into a blockade and creates a commitment to the tax administration, tomorrow we will have the same company that has been able to meet its obligation neatly, which has never been in a blockade to put on a pillar of shame. At the same time, dear friends, we do not wonder whether this minister or the one in this government or the previous government, or if I do not know what caused great damage to the Croatian economy and the state of Croatia. We wonder if in these 6 months, someone has done damage to the state of Croatia to their reckless decisions in various ministries, funds or in any other segment. We here today primarily want to introduce such a single policy in the tax system where, if by any chance, we will pay the tax administration in 60 days, you will go bankrupt. Well, dear friends today, we're fighting for every new open job and we'd give us no idea how much money we're pushing, and this repressive law will put us in a position to shut down hundreds of thousands of jobs. And to be clear, I'm not against this law, but I do support it, but not in this repressive way. Who's gonna be our CEO or director tomorrow at any company if he has to give us his property? It's already been declared a thief because if you steal and then you'll pay for your property. So will our any minister in today's government give his property because he's acting so high in the position of the minister. Whether they'll give up their property, they won't. And you entrepreneurs who charge the state's register are thieves in advance and you're doomed to answer and go to jail tomorrow. Are you asking why certain entrepreneurs came in the position that they could not pay their obligation to the tax administration? You are aware that the crisis occurred from 2008, 2009 until today, and we thought that in a year or two the same crisis would cease, and today a new crisis and new problems will arise in the economy are already being mentioned. Well, isn't it enough for you respected friends to have an economic downturn in the first six months, not economic growth? So doesn't all this tell you what kind of economic situation the economy is in? So doesn't it tell you all together that tomorrow you'll have 300 grand or 400 grand more unemployed at the Employment Service? So do you think when these people stop working that the state budget will be filled with the same speed and same force as it is today? I really don't understand this repressive policy. Yeah, I'm up for this kind of law, but to give one period of time to adapt to all those entrepreneurs who have problems, which are created right in the middle of this economic economic crisis. So what do you think today has an entrepreneur who won't deliberately pay taxes to the IRS? Well, I'd like to see who he is, and at the same time he has to pay 15 or 17% interest at the annual level yesterday. Do you think there are such entrepreneurs who do so on purpose? So do you think these entrepreneurs were deliberately trying to bring their companies into bankruptcy or this difficult situation? I'm really worried about this rhetoric of you people who have never worked in the economy, who never felt what it means to give one personal income, let alone 100, 200 or 300 personal incomes, and I own a company that's been giving 230 personal incomes until yesterday and all this stuff I've been telling you in this data I'm telling you about true data. And you find yourself suddenly in a problem that you can't get out of. And now the people who run the company and the owner of the company will be thieves and criminals at the same time, and that none of the workers were left without a job in that company because we transformed into two other companies, because we paid the workers all the personal income obligations, that we had paid off all the obligations of the suppliers, there was a Tax Administration that was and was not as Mrs Anticevic said no one had guessed to create that debt but was in the reprogramme. And so, everyone works, everyone works, and the problems arises six to seven months ago. And now we're asking ourselves, and we're asking a question not only because of this company, but because of hundreds of other companies that will be reported on it, some column as you call it, and I'm finally asking you, and what are you going to do with you publishing these people's names when you don't have what to charge anyway? Because if he had anything to charge for it, he'd pay for it. You won't do anything. And in future, in this new law, you say the president of the administration will have to give up his property. Well, they won't have to. Any businessman who has anything to do has not enough capital to be independent of any bank. Every bank will take his property and his house, and the IRS will not be able to charge again. No matter how repressive that law is. Because every businessman has to use the bank's loan and simply the bank will take it from him sooner than the IRS. So, just this, Vice President, I ask you for this law, but let's not bring it in so quickly, let's give it time for entrepreneurs to really recover from this economic crisis and then the State and the Tax Administration to charge what they can, and no entrepreneur is a thief, and those who are and who avoid being punished in the most appropriate way the law imposes it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10984	Thank you. We have reported five replicas and a correction of an incorrect quote. We're on our way to the corrections, MP Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10985	Thank you, Vice President. So you're based on the fact, or you're saying that this law is restrictive based on the wrong fact. You say that administrations, or directors of the administration, will guarantee their entire assets because they did not pay the tax. That's incorrect. The law states exactly in which cases he will pay, i.e. his property will only be activated if he abuses his position, and from such abuse of position, he comes into a situation that cannot be paid. For the same long time in the entrepreneurship of my colleagues I was and would never, for example, speak of my company and my business experience about one law. The law must be impartial, general and must apply to everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10986	Thank you. Replica was first registered by agent Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10987	You're telling your colleague that you simply don't believe there are taxpayers who deliberately didn't pay taxes. I don't know if you're joking, or if you're sure people like that, that's how it is. First of all, I'd say it's a privilege, not in that formal sense, if people got jobs in the tender transparently, but in a time when it's long gone and it's hard to get businessmen to work with the state at all. It's a safe job, you shouldn't talk about it. However, we and such people have who are also in debt. We got people who got jobs, they got somebody else to do it, the state paid everybody, and they didn't pay those performers. Well, my people, there was nothing. And I'm really sorry, and here's what you're saying is that you're a businessman, you've been saying a lot of things, and I believe that the good part and you believe and you believe deeply what you said, but you haven't said it before. We also talked about the crisis in 2008, in 2009 it really broke in financial terms then. But we've already seen the crisis here in 2005 and 2006, we've also talked about a certain indifference. We were also talking about these things of tax injustice. We referred to you, we told you about the names of people who were scribbled because they were even, I don't know how those cases ended in court, but in any case, they paid for what they weren't supposed to pay for. Families were ruined, their family grandfather was sold, and even where they were not owners of one small tax debt, small craftsmen, and on the other hand these were released. Look, I believe it'll be open data, so you'll only see how much before the end of last year we agreed on our courts' outdated claims on tax debts.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10988	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Agent Franjo Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10989	... So they don't date just from last year 2011, 2009, so these 53 billion together with interest dates back to the '90s, you know. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] And when the SDP was in power, both HDZ and everyone. That some were seen through the fingers, so if there are such, they should indeed be punished. It's abuse, tax evasion and everything. I'm talking about the facts, why I told you this example, it's not just an example that I know, I know 10 more examples in my middle I'm talking about, where people know who's been exporting, companies have failed outside. You got, you just couldn't charge your bills and you automatically came in, a lack of capital, and you couldn't, you couldn't pay someone, because that tax administration, because that supplier, but here in this case it's the tax administration, right? Therefore, all that has been done and the abuse of power should certainly be punished, but I agree with you and I repeat one more time I am not against this law, but I am against this speedy adoption. So look, we'll all be the happiest if we can solve the issue of payments within Croatia within 90 days, we'll all be the happiest. And that's not feasible and make sure that it won't be possible to spend it in such a short period of time. And at the same time, you'll drive hundreds or maybe thousands of people into bankruptcy and end up at the employment office. And when will you reopen a thousand jobs? I don't know how many years.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10990	Thank you. We have a replica, Domagoj Hajdukovic reported. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10991	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's fellow Lucic, even though I have less experience in the economy than you or from my colleague Zgrebec, I have something. So let me just say from that perspective that I'm really surprised how willing you are to trust other people to have good intentions. I from my humble experience as an employer who was responsible for paying salaries, contributions, taxes etc. I certainly know what kind of pain it is, but I do know what kind of entrepreneurs he has. I agree with you that all entrepreneurs are not criminals, but there are those who are, there are those who consciously go into business with the intention of cheating on you. That's the kind of people you should be punishing. Being obliged is not a sin as I said, but cheating is and trust me many go, I say ordering your service with a conscious intention not to pay it, then their company goes into a blockade, you can't charge yourself, you're forced to try in different ways, so first of all by judicial means, which is you again piled up costs etc. etc. And you, the company you run, which I've been running, pays taxes, pays wages, and I say as my colleagues have already repeated here, is not heating up on those people who, for some reason, may not be able to pay a cut, because I say being obliged is not a sin, but it is the sin of those who did it to cheat them, and that is why I welcome once again the government's initiative to allow everyone to regulate their debt. I am also sure that, in other words, we will also discuss in this agenda the measures of the Government which they intend to improve or measures to improve liquidity on the market, i.e. intervening between creditors and debtors and introducing order on our financial market. What's the currency on the invoice for if no one's holding on to it, then we're adorning it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10992	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10993	My colleague Hajdukovic, I was just saying that I disagreed with the rhetoric of the individuals who spoke here, and so it turned out that the Maltas were not all entrepreneurs, you know. There are a few of them, but that's not the majority, and that's what should be punished and punished. But those who have good intentions, so imagine you now if you in the company had the value of 100 million kuna, so you would deliberately bring your company into trouble not to pay the tax or any other company at the same time and to go into bankruptcy tomorrow. You know what bankruptcy means? So let's not talk like that, and let's not judge people and say for that minority that they're all the same or minors, then tomorrow we wonder why there's no one in this House from the economy. It's not because exactly everybody looks at other eyes and says that he doesn't have any use out there he wouldn't be there, etc. etc. We are people here, most of them are people who have never worked in the economy except by acting here in the Croatian Parliament for several terms of office. And we teach lessons and lectures to those people in the economy who bleed every day, but they're really bleeding. It has never been a difficult situation since the 1990s, and even since the former Yugoslavia, it has never been more than it has been today, ever. It's never been harder. And today we have to help each of these businessmen in any way and from the position of the minister and from the position of the tax administration, but this is not how you repressively muddle, so when I close, you can start the bankruptcy in 60 days, so we'll all be in bankruptcy, and we already are.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10994	Thank you. The next call came from counterpart Josip Bencic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10995	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Lucic, speaking of who worked here, I'll say I've worked in the IRS for 11 years. And I never told anyone he was a thief, never to anyone. What you're saying is that word is that entrepreneurs are thieves, I haven't told anyone, here's what I can say. And we've always tried to help as much as possible in the legal frameworks. The second thing, here you mentioned the repression several times, I changed the general tax law several times, did you ever see a law in which there was no repression in it. The question is, how is she dosed? This isn't a repressive law. In fact, if they're going to talk about this list of debtors, it might even help some entrepreneurs, maybe even help some entrepreneurs see who they're working with, I might say. And he might point out something else, underlining what Mr. Deputy Minister, Mr. Lalovac here said, unfortunately in the last 2, 3 years, the state has been a major crisis generator, with non-payments not to say an even worse word. And I'm sure the entrepreneurs who worked with the state, if the state hadn't paid them, had a lot of problems. And I think Mr. Deputy Minister specifically stressed this, that the state will take care of the administrations and management of public enterprises that this no longer happens. So if the state asks for responsibility from its own, then let it take some time to think about it, but here I believe the state will take the first step and I believe it will punish management that will not meet its obligations to entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10996	Thank you. Next call came from counterpart Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10997	Well, I have to tell you that your debate was typically populist and I'd say quite hypocritical. In fact, you wanted to impute that the government through this law apriors all entrepreneurs want to declare thieves and criminals. All my colleagues, and I personally want to tell you that that's not true, so we don't think that all entrepreneurs are thieves and criminals, but they are in trouble because of thieves and criminals and those who founded the companies, and one after another. There were cases that we had six, seven, and more companies where they made commitments, payments, or revenues through other, fifth, or seventh companies. They did not pay either the state or the workers, nor the suppliers, and therefore brought their suppliers, i.e. in general, the creditors into a situation that they could not meet their own obligations, and because of the lack of trade capital, they also came into the situation that they had to borrow, pay expensive capital, come into insolvency. Insolvency sooner or later leads to loss, and losses sooner or later lead to failure. So they have to be sanctioned, the ones we're talking about, and now is actually the last moment. I think if now is not the time for this law to be implemented and for such entrepreneurs to end, then I don't know what time it will be appropriate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10998	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Lucic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u10999	My colleague Jelash, I will not answer you the way I should, and I do not want to offend you. But to say that I speak populistly and what you say cynically. So I said in my own statement that I wanted to, unlike all of you who spoke today, to speak in a different way from the sources of information, events and problems. And you're telling me that I speak populistly. And I come from the middle of this situation that we're discussing today, the problems I'm waking up with, the ones I'm going to sleep with and live with all day and you're telling me the populist. My colleague Jelash, my every debate here is based on telling the truth and as you can see, I never read unlike you. Do you write it yourself, does it say someone else I don't know? I speak what I think, what I know and speak honestly from the heart, from the soul. But you speak populistly and you deceive people with your discussions because if there were, and we know each other from the past term, you know that we were on boards, too, you'd never say that I spoke populist today. And I'm speaking originally today that no one here today has spoken, and especially you who have never worked in the economy. And I'm asking you, did you ever give anyone one salary, let alone 200 and 300, and so that you could get so hard into a debate and that you could teach all those who know something in the economy and who have worked 26 years. It's really not right for you, but I'll refrain, I won't give you any other word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u11000	Thank you, too. The next latest replica, representative Igor Radjanovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u11001	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, you've told Mr. Lucic more than once that you're not against the provisions of this law, but you're against being brought in quick. Mr. Lucic, this law is passed in two readings. Certain changes have been made between these two readings and several times it has been said here and in these replicas now that, therefore, because of the objective situation in the Croatian economy, two on the other side of the bench has been said that it is not true that there is no such thing. So, that it is a chance for entrepreneurs to reprogramme their tax debt to three years, to reach an agreement with the Ministry of Finance, and that there will be no shame on that side as you say. You also tried to impute this side to equalize entrepreneurs with thieves. I think your colleagues made a pretty good argument on that side so I wouldn't repeat their thesis. I'm just going to ask you, Mr. Lucic, do you think those entrepreneurs who carried millions in black bags to your party's headquarters were they thieves, were they some and what kind of tax they paid on those releases of millions that they brought into your party's black funds? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u11002	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u11003	Well, colleague Radjenovic, I wouldn't talk about it. I'm not going to deal with your case, etc. And I couldn't really talk about those who wore it because I don't know how they were and why they were wearing it. But if someone in the company had profit, and among other things, there were people who have been named for years and managers of the year, so who's going to forbid me from giving my money to one political party, individual or anyone else in my company. From a private company, he can give money to whoever he wants and whoever he wants, and all of this you're talking about is probably gonna prove it, but I'm not even a prosecutor, I'm not even a judge unlike you who, for some people's sakes, you've reached a verdict, you've accused people, you've given them punishment, and you don't know how the outcome will end. Don't be judges and declare people guilty. If some are guilty and guilty, let them answer for it. Don't deal with it, but you've been convicted. So do you remember your rhetoric in the last session of the Parliament as you spoke here in this House, so that you would teach us lessons at the same time today to be cultural, to be good. Well, gentlemen! So do you know which dictionary you spoke and how you muddled the Croatian Democratic Community?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u11004	Thank you. This is what we used up the log-in order they signed up for. I'd like to ask Deputy Minister, Mr. Lalovec for final address. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u11005	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's today at the end of the day one let's say a little more intense debate. What can I say but that this problem of non-payment of taxes is generally one non-payment of a much wider problem in our society that is not only seen in this part of paying or not paying taxes, but also a legal problem, a socio-cultural problem, a problem of mistrust in the institutions, a problem of mistrust in the society in which we live. And the one problem that creates us and the lower standard of living is also where we are today. It's just part of a non-payment mistrust. So all of this that we're in today and we're finding is one consequence of the general mistrust in payment and all of it leads to a lower economic efficiency. So this part of tax evasion, what you said, is always paid by someone, always paid by someone and unfortunately paid by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I was saying that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have the right to know who they credit. I think the citizens of the Republic of Croatia should know why they pay increased taxes, why they pay increased taxes, which they credit in this country. I think it's one of the general interests of introducing order, but I'm telling you again, we're aware that by publishing it itself, it wasn't the intensity of putting some names on it. We know that entrepreneurs have problems, we wanted to separate those who are actually real entrepreneurs and who can find themselves in trouble what we said they won't answer their property, we talk all the time about those who abused their authority, who cheated on the believers, who cheated on the state about them. We're not talking about who consciously did such actions. We're not talking about entrepreneurs who have problems. We talked about entrepreneurs who have problems and we said that we were going through various measures and reducing those contributions which we just said to health what we were going to go to next year another 2%, we said that we had negotiated with the CNB loans and reprogrammes and tax debt and lower funding conditions in agreement with banks where banks did not find this problem generously to finance the Croatian economy. We're trying in a whole way to actually correct this part of the economy, this part of what you said to those entrepreneurs who pay us and here in Parliament and government means I'm talking about these entrepreneurs that the base unfortunately is very little. Unfortunately, it's precisely this one general problem that we know by publishing these names, etc. We won't solve any problems. We're going to solve these problems for the next four years, because I'm telling you there are a lot of broader problems and social and cultural issues. Because you have a problem and unsatisfactory states when there is no tax paid, you have a problem with an unsatisfactory employee who has not received his pension, has not received his paid salary neatly. You have an unsatisfactory entrepreneur who invested his capital, who invested his time, which is 24 hours after that company and actually failed in the end. So you have one whole society that we're in right now, so we're unfortunately in such a society, so we've opened one question, we've opened one question that's not an easy question. So the question we're actually going to try to solve in the next period. We won't be able to solve it by publishing itself or by listing someone what you said with the pillar of shame, but you have to set clear criteria for everyone that actually in the entrepreneurial action must have all the same criteria. And here we are, in fact, that you are both on the side of the public and on the side of the Parliament all the time following and giving us a proposal in which direction you go further. However, I am sorry to say in this part that someone has also perceived that this law part of the law is against entrepreneurs. I think that part, I don't want to go into instrumentalization, I told you it's a much wider problem and we're aware that the problems are deeper nature and that we're going to solve them, let's say for sure this year for financial consolidation. This is just one of the packages of laws that will go as you have heard except for the Financial Business Act where we will try these debts unlike where the state itself has been rehabilitated by these companies. Up until now, the state has self-recovered these companies, and not all other believers have been. The banks were excluded from this, etc. We're going to try it together with all the believers, with those companies that have problems that part of the tax debt, what we said, one part we've put on a reprogramme, another time we've put on a reprogramme, we've given HABOR's interest to be more favourable loans to try to reprogram those debts. We've been doing this financial consolidation since the last time we tried, together with the creditors, where we're going to get into the consolidation of these companies. If you don't think that these are all the elements for raising one ruinous state, then he doesn't know. But I believe that you're actually in that part of you understand that and that you realize that there is no I wouldn't want to raise tensions in this part of what happened. We try to solve these problems every day. Recently, I've had many unions talking to the unions, and we said that every job we manage to save justifies our functions here. But also not every job but also an entrepreneur with problems. And every day we listen to problems, we receive entrepreneurs where we have various administrative problems and we ourselves have created problems. However, this part of the culture of non-payment has led us to a situation where we are that neither the state nor the worker is satisfied nor the entrepreneur is satisfied. And that's the problem we're going to have to solve for the next four years, and I hope we have your support in that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u11006	I would like to thank Deputy Minister Lalovec with his associates. I'm closing the debate. This is what we're done for today. Tomorrow we will continue with a joint discussion under the points of the draft annual report on the implementation of the 2011 State budget of the Republic of Croatia and the 2011 report on the annual report on the implementation of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia. We start at 9.30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u11007	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Tax Act, P.Z. No. 77. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the HDZ Representatives' Club. I would like to ask the Proposer to make a statement on the amendments. Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u11008	Thank you very much. Amendment No. 1. is accepted with nomotechnical correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u11009	Which one?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u11010	It is therefore necessary to delete the proposed amendment correctly in the proposed amendment in advance of the mandatory insurance contribution and place a decimal there.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u11011	I'd like a representative of the club, please. Accepted?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u11012	We accept, yes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u11013	Thank you. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u11014	Amendment No. 2. is also accepted in addition to the nomotechnical correction where, according to the proposed provision, the publication of the list of due and unpaid debts, rather than the list of outstanding and unpaid liabilities, in the proposed amendment to the word of the list of outstanding outstanding liabilities, should be replaced by the words of the list of due and unpaid debts.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u11015	Thank you very much. Club reps?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u11016	We're satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u11017	Thank you very much. Amendment No. 3. in Article 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u11018	It is also accepted with the same short nomotechnical – harmonize item 3 where administrative contracts are discussed... in paragraph 1, the first paragraph is replaced by the following: [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u11019	Representative?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u11020	We're satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u11021	Thank you very much. Amendment No. Article 9
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u11022	Amendment No. 4. is not accepted for the reason that, as we have said in the very exposure of property in some procedure where it is of interest of the Republic of Croatia to such a property where we have actually stated where it is, in fact, by using these properties where a certain public authority is located in that property where we pay rent, and with the agreement with the debtor where this property would actually be in the function of the Republic of Croatia's interest means putting these interests, so we believe that in such opportunities we would facilitate both the entrepreneur and the state of use of such space. I must also point out that this part is actually for real estate, so it will all be, so when it comes to this property it will be decided by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and it will actually be public and transparent under which conditions have actually been made.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u11023	Thank you very much. HDZ representatives?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u11024	I don't accept this argument because what Mr. Deputy Minister said in law doesn't say. The law says there's a possible tax on real estate. There is no criterion nor is there any other way to elaborate. Therefore, when we look at the whole law for some, there is anticipation of limited liability, and for some, the possibility of taxing in real estate is opened. And that's the opposite of the law itself. Because the General Tax Law says that the tax is cash, so we insist on this amendment and I propose a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-02-0.u11025	Thank you very much. Who's in favor of an amendment the government doesn't accept? Please raise your hand. Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you, too. I am voting on the final draft law with the amendments adopted. Of course, by raising your hand, we'll get to the bottom of who's in. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. What's the score? I find that most of the votes, 88 for and 27 abstentions, have been adopted by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the General Tax Law in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
