ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5567	My colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We continue to work on our 3rd session on the scheduled agenda. My colleagues and colleagues, shall we continue our work? Shall we? Thank you. So, we continue to discuss - the final draft law implementing Regulation (EC) No. 648/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 31 March 2004 on detergents, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 55. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Care, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Environmental Protection. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Minister of Health Marijan Cesarik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5568	... The Croatian Parliament. [[Specially enabled.]] The Government of the Republic of Croatia has drawn up a proposal for a law implementing Regulation No. 648/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 31 March 2004 on detergents with a final draft law. Namely, the safety of detergents in the Republic of Croatia was governed by the Law on general application cases of 2006 and the Regulation on detergents from 2011. Those rules have been adopted in order to comply with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union in Chapter I. – Free movement of goods and fully taking over the provisions of the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council since 31 March 2004 on detergents. As the area of security of detergents at European Union level is regulated by the regulation as a secondary source of European Union law, the legislative proposal constitutes a mechanism for its implementation. The legislative proposal sets out the Ministry of Health as the competent authority for the implementation of that Regulation. The legislative proposal empowers the Minister of Health to prescribe national requirements relating to the use of phosphate in detergents. The proposed law allows for flexible adaptation of domestic legislation to European Union legislation. The implementation of that law in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for the period 2012 to 2014 will have no financial effect. Therefore, I conclude, in view of the need to comply with domestic legislation with European Union rules on human health protection in accordance with Article 161 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament propose the adoption of the Law implementing Regulation No. 648/2004. The European Parliament and the Council of 31 March 2004 on emergency detergents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5569	I thank the Deputy Minister of Health, Master Maria Cesarik. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First of all, it's the clubs. On behalf of the HDZ Club, distinguished representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5570	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So the role of detergents in everyday life is unquestionable and life is unimaginable. But also care for health and health care is also lasting and very important, but also environmental protection. And it is necessary to say that we in the wider European frameworks have a relatively well-preserved environment and as such we should leave it for generations behind us. So, of course, detergents with all the useful moments they give us also have harmful and therefore they need to be kept under surveillance and, in that sense, the 2006 Law on General Application Matters, which was complemented by 2009. And there's the Regulation on detergents from 2011. This law includes, of course, the provisions of this Directive, from 2004 to 2004. 648. But now, with regard to further harmonisation and in relation to Chapter 1 as said by Mr. Deputy Minister, it is necessary to make the mechanism easier and to make it more efficient. And in that sense, there is also this law that will support the Croatian Democratic Community club. And otherwise, the Ministry of Health is determined as a competent authority which will therefore exercise and carry out the same administrative supervision but in cooperation with the authorities of the state administration. So, for the economy, environmental protection and the water economy. In addition, inspection supervision has been established which will be necessary and which is also very important. So in that sense, I think it will further improve this important area and therefore we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5571	Thank you to Honoring Representative Milinkovic. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Honorary Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5572	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here from the bench I hear doctors discussing detergents, so when the Ministry of Health passed out these topics, doctors have to discuss this topic. And who else is going to do it? Isn't that right, Mr. Djurdjevic? But doctors as doctors should also discuss what is happening today and in the Republic of Croatia, and these are the lives of the DIOKI workers who are on a 50m platform here, because human lives are more valuable and important than both this Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, ministers, the Prime Minister and all those who have brought DIOKI workers into this situation. It's a chemical industry, so since the production of detergents is a chemical industry to take advantage of this opportunity to give them this personally and in the name of the HDSSB club, and hopefully on behalf of all of you here, support in their fair fight, unfortunately through hunger strikes, but also thirst which is very dangerous. So the deadline in case of fluid failure is 10 to 11 days for life. And we should know that here today and at least talk about it here. I'm using this opportunity, please, Mr. Vice President, so you don't stop me from doing that. As regards therefore detergents and European directives, guidelines to say the Croatian directive of guidelines, it is clear that the HDSB club is therefore going to accept this bill. I'd say a little bit, I won't say late, but since it's 2004/2005. the European Council and the European Parliament adopted such a directive then clearly that, given the Croatian accession of the EU, this law bears the label E., so P.Z.E. – a proposal from a set of European laws and it is clear that what is written here is also that the inspection of detergents, production, quality and all others is carried out by the Ministry of Health, that it performs and manages clearly with the help of the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Ministry of Economy, etc. Also, and so to say inspection, or laboratory surveillance of the composition of detergents especially phosphates that are dangerous, not only here writes for people, I even thought of putting in a single amendment even though it might be unnecessary. It is therefore said that the area is therefore in the area due to the need to comply with EU rules on human health protection. And I would say, given that detergents end wide in the environment, in nature, that it might have been good to write about protecting people's health and environmental protection, which might be one extension, one addition to such a legal proposal that will be adopted by the HDSB club, and in hopes that this regulation will not apply until 2014. So, in over a year and a half. So, from 1.01.2014, it also leads to the same both quality and quality in the detergent sector, the use of detergents, but also the chemical composition of detergents that will not endanger human health, but also disrupt the state of the environment. That's why I say once again I don't think there are any objections to this bill. The HDSSB club will vote yes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5573	I thank the honourable representative Grubisic. We don't have any more charges to discuss. I'm asking the proposer's representative if there's anything he'd like to say? No, I don't. We don't have an amendment, so I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5574	We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law implementing Regulation (EC) No 648/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 31 March 2004 on detergents, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 55. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get involved and vote. Thank you. I find that most of the vote 104 votes against no one, one abstention of the Law on the Implementation of the EC Regulation 648/2004. The European Parliament and the Council of 31 March 2004 on detergents in the text proposed by the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5575	Let's move on to - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Servants, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 53. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, and you received reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Master Zoran Piculjan, Deputy Minister of Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5576	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In front of you is another amendment to the Law on Civil Service, a law which in 2005 and 2006 in a normative sense began a process of modernization, which that year, started one process of modernising the Croatian state administration and the process that was still going on and that was not properly completed, and it will indeed continue to continue until the concept of all that we had predicted and promised. The purpose of this law is to extend nature, which means to affirm the need for service, the need for public service, and the narrow character is to actually prepare, to give some solutions that will allow the process to be reorganised by the state administration, which is the Law on Construction and Part-Corruption in the 12th month, has been continued practically to end and internally. The main directions of this change that are proposed are primarily to affirm mobility within the state service in such a way as to allow services to be transferred from the public service system, public services, local administrations, local self-government and regional self-government and state administration in all directions. It seems to us that this unique treatment, the treatment of the public administration system is actually good for Croatia and uses everything, and it has and creates instruments for the use of all its human potentials. The second part, second purpose, or second part, is internal. It should also enable internal mobility within the service, but firstly tie it to the needs of the service and enable officials, i.e. to affirm the best officers to work in places where the needs of the service are strongest. Therefore, this standard of ability to move officials within all categories should not be and is not, has no intention of being a penal nature but actually respond to the needs of the state service in a narrow sense. The third kind of change actually aims at one clear distinction between political people, officials, contracted officials, state officials who come with the mandate of the minister and leave with the cabinet of ministers, similar to in the prime minister's office, in the Deputy Prime Minister's office and from officials who perform their ministry as a constant occupation. Considering it necessary to give ministers the opportunity to strengthen their own, professionally strengthen their cabinets to people of knowledge and trust, this norm allows them to do so and of course it does not aim at the permanent remnant of those persons, civil servants, contract employees at work, but binds them to the mandates of politically appointed officials. The following norm, the next set of norms, is related to the very moment of reconstruction, the internal reconstruction of state bodies, and also to such changes leading to new structural and functional changes within one state body, should also be affirmed primarily by the need of service and the schedule to perform the basis of the need for service but in any case also the other part of the norm, not to disregard what is knowledge, professional experience and, in a substantive sense, the position of the officers doing the job. The next and last group of norms are two more technical characters which, this is not technical character, which equates the position of union commissioners in breach of official duty when the union's consent is denied and where, in accordance with and very similar to, the general labour legislation for workers and trade union commissioners in that sector, the real sector is equalised and the union commissioner in the state service in a way that the union's disagreements substitute a judicial decision in this case of the administrative court of the first degree. In conclusion, they show all these interventions in the law on civil servants who are indeed numerous from 2005 to 2011, and now teach that it is necessary to systematically re-examine the matter of the state service, officials and wider public service and do one, make one significant effort, significant intervention towards further professionalisation and efficiency of the state service, as well as the public administration of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5577	I thank the Deputy Minister of Administration, Master Zoran Piculjan. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, then I'm opening a debate. First on behalf of the clubs. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, the parties of work appeared the distinguished representative Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5578	Mr. Vice President, distinguished fellow MPs. When I went to prepare for this debate, by studying this material a little bit, I came up with the idea of comparing the qualities and abilities of our government to Chuck Norris. Then I gave it up because Mr. Shakespeare threw that at the time, that Chuck Norris had been run over, and yet I came to realize that these results were still closer to David Copperfield's abilities. This government employs new people, establishes a system of political responsibility, and that is commendable. Ministers become responsible for the work of their deputies and assistants, the only problem so far that employees who are employed in public competitions, though sometimes these public procurements were with the picture, but they remained in the system. Now we have that copperfield, illusionist result that we have more employees and we haven't spent any more money on their salaries. I don't think that's definitely possible, and it's not quite true, after all, that the media is convincing us. We also learned from the media what we and the minister knew that the past government was bad, so she hired a lot, even mentioned several thousand public and state-run workers, and this government decided not to, it's not okay, so she's hired some of her staff and they can't be resented because they've introduced a system of political responsibility and they're not undecided because so far the personnel are just redeploying but it's their proof of their social sensitivity that all taxpayers will pay. A few years ago, the unions were telling the then government "Masks have fallen." This government is made up of coalitions whose majority of the Social Democrats reportedly, since at least what can be read from the media from trade unions, have avoided talking to their social partners. To make things better, there is supposed to be an agreement between the union and the former government, but it seems that this government does not commit to anything, so I ask myself a question, because it was signed by the former government, does that mean that the arbitration agreement with Slovenia is also void because it was signed by the former government. That definitely doesn't mean and I think the government's obligations no matter who she was, whatever those sides were coming from were government obligations. This proposal contains some amendments, or even more so, to the prescribed provisions of the Labour Act, and now, to be honest, it is not clear to me why the provisions of one Law are put in place as provisions of another Law unless it is a strong message to the trade unions that soon follow the cancellation of collective agreements that they have defined, it has succeeded in defining their rights as union commissioners, but it is the question that the unions have most often just referred to corrupt actions in the systems in which they work, and now we are sending them a message, not us but a legislator of such a chorus of business because this government has obviously a monopoly on knowledge and honesty. This Law provides for something else. If anyone wants to be able to do so without reason, without any civil servant to send to work almost anywhere. I'm not going to say that it's the goal of fostering one of your staff, but it's very likely that's exactly how it's going to be. Then they'll follow the explanation so what if I hired a godfather, a relative, a friend after all even a child in that place. Shouldn't he, as such, be able to advance in this system? And he's definitely capable of being my cousin, because if he wasn't my cousin, he wouldn't be capable. The fact that these people who have been sent away from the state service will certainly have to be praised, because they certainly need less if they are not my relatives right away, there is no need for them to have so much money, which they will. I'm sure defending such a burden will go unsatisfactory. Only now is the question being asked who he didn't satisfy? He didn't please me who had my own foster parents, he didn't satisfy my party, he didn't satisfy my coalition. Who and by what criteria did someone not meet? Also in a letter of trade unions that, if I've seen correctly, we've all been given another detail that the promoter obviously considers either not important or perhaps it's an oversight, I hope it is warmly. It is a matter of meeting specific conditions from professional to security, which means either that the state's professional examinations will be terminated or that all of us taxpayers will have to allocate additional funds to train and pass these expert examinations. And last but not least, in this proposal, the amendment of the law on amending laws is not mentioned anywhere by the substitutes. And maybe it's better not to mention it because they usually remember when the rights are cut. Then they are if the rights are reduced in the government's office then they are the people of the government's office, if the rights of the Parliament's office are reduced, then they are the people of the Parliament's office. And to be honest, thank you, Proposer, for not remembering them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5579	Thank you. The next person to apply for a debate on behalf of the HDSSB club is distinguished representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5580	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. We have a little more or less than three months of the new Croatian government headed by the Koreans to say to Zoran Milanovic as Prime Minister. Although he hasn't yet acquired as a predecessor... the name of the great leader, but since such laws come by emergency procedure in the parliamentary procedure, it is obviously being prepared for such a single name. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, if we look back a little bit these three months and look at the 4th December and the time of great expectations that the Croatian people, Croatian citizens and Croatian voters had had from this government were given three months of wandering, unaccounted for, and I would say even basking in political space, according to decisions that this country was increasingly leading back not to the second half of the 21st century but to the water back in '45, '48, when the threes of them from OZA were walking in this country when they were cleaning the attics and when many of them got a few years of Glog Island. At this point, we can freely say that Plan 21 does not exist, that the plan and programme remained only on paper and that it was one mere pre-election promise and the sale of fog to Croatian citizens and Croatian voters because instead of this plan 21 we received a plan 25, that these three months were made so-called. a minimum tax reform that has been further beaten and primarily centralised by Croatia and further beaten local and regional self-government, that we have received a budget planned with a deficit of 9.9 billion kuna but also a planned new debt of 22 billion kuna. We got a country where most of the problems are the legacy of eight years of black bags, FIMI-Media, robbery and robbery, octopuses of political, organised crime, etc. but after three months we got Croatia to break records but those records from 2003 because today Croatia has almost 350 thousand unemployed. Today, Croatia has 800,000 pensioners who cannot retire with their pension even though they have earned it fairly can't survive for a month and can't have according to the principle written in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia that every citizen has the right to a decent life. There is certainly a need to look at those 100,000 paid workers who have not seen more than 6 months, but also those workers who end up on the street every day for bankruptcy, because no one in this country is responsible for implementing the policy that leads to bankruptcy. This three months Croatia also marks the drop in living standards, the increase in prices, it is clear to everyone especially those who survive daily, I would no longer say on bread and milk, but on bread and water, while this government and other competent ministries introduce a non-monetary Monday, Bratski Friday. But with this Croatian government, we got a week of hunger, primarily most Croatian citizens. We also got that this government via Facebook, Twitter, via other networks asks citizens, but it doesn't ask them to listen, it asks them because they don't know how to solve the problem. For eight years they have been in opposition and wonders, unprepared for taking over, unprepared for solving these problems. So if you don't already know how to solve problems, it's best to resign, go home nicely, rest your groins because citizens didn't choose you to give you advice, but they chose you to solve these problems in which Croatia is. Among other things, on the Internet, he wants to go back to Croatian TV in the 1970s, return to that public media and do what was once called political television, party television, and probably the Dnevnik will then on that television when the director chooses here in the Parliament, when most of them choose him, someone will...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5581	My colleague Vinkovic, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5582	I'm sticking to the subject. This is an introduction to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5583	No, no, I'm sorry. I just need to say one sentence now. Just one sentence, I'll beg you. Please, if you could just say one single sentence about civil servants and tenants. One thing, and then you can...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5584	This is the introduction to this law. So probably the Dnevnik will start with a nice, dear, exemplary, beautiful Prime Minister, today you've been in your cabinet, etc., etc. and probably on that HRT, thanks to other laws and laws like this, the laws by which civil servants and deputies, something similar to what HDZ was doing with Croatian highways, will only be employed if they have a party or party card, so probably, pardon me, but the godfather will have three seats at the Ministry of Research and Waste of Time, spokeswoman, assistant minister and secretary, just check in and join the SDP, and I'll let you know later, thank you very much. I'm sorry, he was my best man, so I just wanted to get to know him how to get a new job. This was the introduction to the debate about this law. In view of the nature of these tasks, this is an explanation of the Government and the fact that employees in these jobs work closely with the minister, it is proposed to fill the cabinet posts of the Minister for a specified time until the date of termination of the term of office of the Minister of State or State Service reception for a specified time, without the prior implementation of the public tender, or a public service advert. If this had been written in the previous term, wrote and proposed by the HDZ government, this party here, once called Social Democratic, was also the President of Milanovic, and the Prime Minister said that he is a liberal, and apparently this has no bearing on it anymore, and this is indeed one neoliberal law, most of my former colleagues would probably be here, and current colleagues would scream. However, today, neatly or tomorrow, when the vote comes, it will raise its hands for this scandalous law that brings us back at a time that I hope will never return to Croatia again, during socialism, one-witness, party books etc., etc. I'm reading a newspaper today where a director says there are 4,000 employees in his company who are surpluses, but he's going to hire another 500, probably just waiting to pass this law. It is likely that instead of the incasators in HEP, instead of those workers who work on the power line and these workers who strike today, because someone stole their salaries and pensions and the future and interrupted the possibility and future of children and families, there is likely to be a consensus with this law so that they can also be employed by party similarity. At the same time, Minister Bauk for 237000 kunas, known for his austerity, introduces an alcoholicry because it has been proven that only one employee in the ministry was under the influence of alcohol in eight years. It is not known what happened to this employee, or public servant and manager, but that alcosterity has been paid 200 kuna. Apparently, Brač's austerity is in place and it's obviously in action, I'm just wondering who Minister Bauk will protect these security guards from, probably from Facebook citizens who give him advice on how to run that ministry. After that, and I believe that you still remember that law that directly influenced and influenced the functioning of the units of local self-government, not only tax reform and income reduction, but that popular Comadina law that was written exclusively for certain mayors, mayors could become ministers, assistant ministers, state secretary, that this law that was written before us in the same spirit. Given that it is expected, and nowhere in this explanation does it say how much it is actually intended to catch party listeners, air-conditioned, those who are loyal to the boss and the great leader of an even larger party, we are looking for an answer that is the number of people, where they will be employed and whether, as so far, the practice will be deployed to advisory places from state firms to various, different ministries. Since one study was written, I'll just say that the minister in charge reads it. It's a study of political advisors, civil servants in European countries because I see this yellow light of author Simon James burning up, so I could get to know that this is exactly the kind of cabinet system and system that's not good and it's an extremely bad thing. And the Americans themselves consider such a system a distribution of prey. But all the American presidents so far have said that their model because it's extremely bad is not for export. Given that I expected to have names and names of these highly educated professional people who would be speakers today to replace the civil servants so far. I suggest that, since this has already been done in history to simply introduce in this Croatian Parliament a model by which the Prime Minister will be able as the Caligula incitatus to appoint a senator but from other horses, other famous people are not according to this Law but also these people along with these horses were far away, far ahead of this law but they all ended up under the ice as Alexander Macedonian and his Buquefal, such as Don Quijot and Rosinant, and this reminds me of the appointment of the Charcas not to mention the Queen Mark, but this is a law which will be named by Mus Kesedji as the spokesman of the Croatian Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5585	Thank you. They often took away my word when I spoke on behalf of the club by reminding me not to stick to the subject and that's why I didn't interrupt you. I only asked you once to dedicate at least one single sentence to this law. You were talking about TV, among other things. This will be an ideal opportunity for all televisions to show their editors to show whether serious debates in this House or insolent performances deserve to be entered into their reports. We have two corrections. First, my colleague Davor Bernardic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5586	Here's only one, I'll correct just one incorrect assumption that he called you the best man. You probably got a call from the board secretary since we were supposed to be on the board 20 minutes ago, so please let's hurry up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5587	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5588	It is difficult to find in this Rules of Procedure what you are, but Article 203 and Article 209 since you, Mr Vice President, are in charge of holding a session, not giving a political opinion and a political explanation of the spoken speech of the MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5589	Article 203 speaks of the agenda. We have another correction of the incorrect allegations, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5590	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Namely, counterpart Vinkovic said it was a matter of civil servants and tenants. Unfortunately, fortunately, it's not about the tenants, it's only about the civil servants, and these are the other ones. So when they secure the red books, then they'll come in line. As for the names and names of Mr. Vinkovic, I think I'm correcting you, perhaps with names and last names, there may already be pictures of those who will be admitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5591	Thank you very much. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HNS Club, distinguished representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5592	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, we've already talked about a similar topic, that officials this time are calling it the basis of an evaluation of the head of state administration who thus assume responsibility for the work that will be done in their government bodies. This is, therefore, the political same attitude is just a lower level and it is necessary to repeat the basics, the basic thesis that was said when this debate was discussed. So, this is an end to the practice that, in fact, the basis of fictitious competitions, took off responsibility for what will be because, like us, public competitions were carried out, so the basis of these competitions was named the best. That's one attitude that prevailed. The second position was to hide, therefore political responsibility, responsibility for decision-making because everything is in accordance with the law, everything is in accordance with the procedure, and we know that, in these circumstances, in those highest places of government officials and also in the places of state officials, in fact, political criteria and personal responsibility were crucial. And we can say things here how it should be, but more or less we know how it worked not only in the state administration, but in all segments and little where it can be met that in those highest places, whether public officials or officials in local self-government, there were top officials in state and local self-government only named by the criteria of expertise, education, but there was always a dimension of political, or personal loyalty. This government makes it very clear, sets these relations very clearly and thus takes responsibility for what they will do and what they will do. This is a much cleaner relationship and a much fairer attitude towards both the public and the assumed responsibility than hiding behind alleged public tenders and alleged expertise which we know were not. I guess part of that responsibility for the state of affairs, except, of course, the political leaders, also carry that highest nomenclature of civil servants. I suppose they are also responsible for the state of the state, including the state of government. Well, at the very least, that fact, and the few who will dispute it, points to the need to change something in that sense. Of course, it would be good for the highest official place and even the highest posts if you want to name people by the sole basis of quality, based on expertise, but in order for this to happen it must rest on some kind of political consensus, political consensus, and that as we know in the Croatian Parliament, there is no Croatian politics and the question is when it will be. Well, if it's not already there, then it's better to be this clean with a clear commitment. It's also about the number of these people. Most of them will probably not come outside the state administration system but probably from the state administration system itself. So if we all came out of the state administration it was about about 100 people and talking in the context of increasing the number of employees in the state administration on this example really doesn't make sense. It's not the tip of an ice dream, it's not even that, it's kind of a smaller egg that fell on that tip of an iceberg, and what's underneath it is just the right question and I hope we have a chance to talk about it. When it comes to this other matter, which is the relocation of civil servants, I hope we can discuss this institute as well. It would be good to have some information on how many civil servants are in that status during these changes. There are indeed difficulties, there should be restrictions because it is an emergency situation, an emergency procedure that should be limited, and it is particularly problematic for these civil servants who have been transferred to other authorities of the state administration or from local self-government to the state administration to remain with labour rights and with the obligation and possibility of returning to their earlier workplace which, of course, makes their status difficult, makes their professional advancement and professional development difficult. And that question should also be considered and regulated differently than it is in the law today. But the first assumption is that we have information as to how many civil servants today are in such a status and what are the limits that the fact that it is of course an emergency would not turn into some sort of regular state and significantly disrupt the system of state administration. The new issue is the second issue raised here, in fact, the reason to open a much more important issue, which is the state of the state administration in the Republic of Croatia. I hope this is just a hint of that topic. The state administration, its state of affairs, its abilities, its overload, its sub-capacitation regarding the tasks and the re-accountation of the number of people is a notorious topic of Croatian politics, and it is good that this is a reason to discuss the issue. When we talk about the state administration, it is indisputable, no one will agree that we have too many employees in the state administration, and it would be good to remember when someone in the state administration was employed only by the basis of his extraordinary qualifications and that he was fully meeting the conditions of the competition. There are few cases like this, and that's not enough, and that's what you keep talking about here. If you have submitted an application, if you have properly met all the conditions of the competition, if you have been to the tests and during the interviews it is not guaranteed to you in most cases and will not result in your employment. It's obviously something else. And it's not only in civil servants' places, but also in the places of the state's tenants that are not spoken of in this law. And that's true, and we can hide from that truth, but that's a fact. It's a fact in local self-government, it's a fact in the state administration, and I almost never met a case like that. So, you have extraordinary qualifications, you've reported neatly, you meet all the conditions, but that you'll be admitted to a high position in the state administration based on this very rarely happening in this country. And of course at all her levels. I rope state administrations and public companies and local self-government and regional self-government regardless of who was in power in one, second or third segment of the state administration. And that's a fact. What's behind that? At lower levels, it's probably not a political resemblance, but there are other types of similarities. Personal similarity, family likeness, nepotism, and somewhere as we can read in our media, and many of us have heard of such cases naturally in the conversation is also financial similarity. All of these types of similarities are actually just the daughters of this fundamental political resemblance and there's no reason to hide from it. That is how it significantly disrupts the quality of the state administration and creates a sense of inequality here with citizens. When it comes to the number of government employees, they are probably right to say that about 20%, of course, are indicative data, these are estimates of employees in the state administration, and there are about 10% missing. So, not in terms of quality, but in terms of increasing employees in some places where that is not really necessary, of course, I will not talk about the quality here, and 10% is a lack of professional, qualified employees and, in particular, employees in some of the services we know to be overloaded in this regard. It's not the fact that we also have too few doctors, that we have too few nurses, that we have too few teachers. If we have the ambition to reduce the number of students in the class, it automatically pulls the increase in the number of teachers, and that's where we have that minus. But in some other parts of the state administration, we have very large pluses, and that's the question we need to face. When it comes to the quality of the work of civil servants, then of course you have people who are fully qualified, who are committed and constantly with great burden doing their job, and you have those who have entered the state administration and in that state administration actually work insufficiently, let's say they have qualifications, but they've been admitted and no one is, of course, touching them. And when you look at this disproportionateness between the private sector and the public sector, so state administration, it's a state that's unsustainable. And while there's so much pressure on the state administration, while you have an entry that's not even based on the criteria and while you have a high level of protection against the private sector, the situation won't be good. While working conditions, the way in which these two important segments are received, so the overall social life, not equally, will always have increased pressure on the state administration and there will always be this pressure that will result in these deformities that I was talking about. And these are the real issues that we need to address in this Parliament, of course, and for which the Government is responsible, and I am therefore looking forward to this announcement by the Deputy Minister that we will actually have the opportunity to enter into this problem really bring state law into a situation in which it will be optimal and that it will be effective with regard to meeting what is its basic task, which is to be at the service of citizens. And so these fundamental solutions of this Law are very logical, they mean no matter how wrong someone can understand it, really taking responsibility, it means stopping hiding behind fictional competitions and of course taking responsibility from these officials but especially from state officials who have received trust and now will solve some issues in this country. This is why the Club of Representatives of the CNS will be in favour of this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5593	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Radosh. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. First, the esteemed Don Ivan Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5594	It would be more of an addition than a correction because the esteemed representative Radoš told us about the need for professional training of civil servants. I believe it is necessary, apart from the high professional arrangement, that there is still a moral recognition of the candidate concerned in his work so far as well as social sensitivity not only to the candidate but also to the family, to the family in which he lives. For this to be three criteria, not just one criterion for the selection of civil servants. That's the first one. And secondly, I would support the initiative to bring one statement to this House, moral support to those who strike hunger and end up in the ER, to give them moral support and to allow them to be responsible for the case as soon as possible to find a suitable solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5595	The second correction of the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5596	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, it is an incorrect claim from fellow Radosa that the poor state of government is in, because then that the state administration would not have completed the negotiations as successfully as it did. The second thing is that his findings are incorrect when it comes to civil servants and tenants to mention doctors and professors they are simply public services. And thirdly, I don't think it's a good idea to talk about one of these important laws without saying exactly how many civil servants and tenants there are in a narrow sense, there's only about 8 and a half thousand of them. So, that's incorrect, you can laugh as much as you want, but the judicial police, the military, the customs administration and the tax administration by some, they're formally in state services but these civil servants we're talking about today and we're discussing her somewhere around 8 and a half thousand. Therefore, return the pay grade gentlemen you have abolished for political criteria, then talk about depolitisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5597	We continue the debate by clubs, on behalf of the HDZ Club, the distinguished representative Davorin Mlakar will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5598	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. We have heard from some of the personal experiences of previous speakers that the state administration is burdened with problems, some have had opportunities, luck or misfortunes to run the state administration and unfortunately after using its potential then usually talk about state officials and the state administration in the worst light, so I would not agree in those assessments and I will try to explain why your grades are not correct, something has already been corrected by the intervention of counsel Schuker. So, it's about different categories of officers who are often in your presentations chasing each other, and then the public gets a completely wrong picture of the number and quality of these employees. However, since our topic is for the second time already an amendment to the Law on State Servants I will remain in some general remarks on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ and then on an individual basis, according to each article that this Law carries. And as we warned the Government when she proposed the first amendments to the Law on Civil Service Officers by emergency procedure, that the urgency of many would be severed and will not solve the issues that might have been resolved by amending the Law, we will repeat these arguments again this time. The reason why the cabinets of ministers are filled or empty with new officials is no matter what rank this law can be made by an emergency procedure, and this law has no other argument than to change so as to allow the cabinets of the Minister to employ people without competition and probably redistribution of those found in these cabinets in a working relationship. Therefore, the argument that this Law is adopted by emergency procedure and that the government is referring to Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are incorrect, it is a false argument, because this article does not talk about these reasons that you stated when you explained the need for urgency of adoption of this Act. At the same time, these cabinets are still functioning today and this urgency required will not contribute to faster and better quality work, much more would mean that this law is implemented through two readings so that when you consider them to be well-intentioned and high quality, you can possibly install them into the Law or you can adopt it according to normal procedure. The second question is what this Law, and probably because of the urgency of the procedure, is again making one legal mistake. It is contrary to the provisions of the Law on Officials and Landowners in the local and regional and regional self-government, which states in Article 98 that officials can be moved only within the same unit of local self-government, and you are now introducing this law to the Institute of Transfers not only within the State Service but also between local administrations and local self-government authorities and the dabbies between local, state administration and the entire public sector, which is contrary to the Law on Officials and Landowners in local and regional self-government. It will also raise the question whether a later law is applicable in this case or whether a special law applies. And a special law is the Law on officials in local and regional self-government, and then the question is, can this transfer norm ever come to life? As regards individual objections to the proposal for this law, some have already talked about it, you have consistently spread the circle of those closest associates in the public enterprises and in the state administration by the appointment of ministerial assistants for whom there was a reason at the time that those closest ministers had expanded the circle of those closest associates, so now all people are employed in the cabinet of ministers are also the closest ministerial associates, regardless of whether there were 1 or 15 advisers there, whether they were 1 or more speakers, media experts, etc. The bill of course does not show because it will be the subject of regulations and regulations in the internal order which number of people you will be able to load into these cabinets. At the same time, they will not be subject to provisions that apply to all other civil servants, and I ask you what position you put the others in in relation to those who can be appointed without any criteria.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5599	Dear Representative Mlakar, don't be angry, I'm sorry, but we now have members of the Foreign Political Committee of the Republic of Slovenia at the gallery, so I would like to ask everyone to welcome them. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5600	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I will not be angry at all. I will take the opportunity to welcome the representatives of the Foreign Political Committee of the Slovenian Parliament. And I think it's good because we'll probably find similar questions and maybe better practice than that proposed by our government. As for the cabinet of ministers, I said there is no limited number of employees, of course there is no provision on their salaries. And the particular question that the Government has not addressed with this proposal, what will happen to those found working in these cabinets? It is likely that by force of adoption of this law, they will be replaced or set up to other jobs regardless of their quality, regardless of whether at the time of the establishment of a employment relationship in the state administration they have met all the prescribed conditions and have passed the competitions to come to those jobs. But as of today or when this law enters into force, it will of course no longer be important, because you have found by this bill that these places are being filled out without a public tender. But unfortunately, that's not the end of it. You continue to call the specially appointed categories of officials civil servants. However, it is interesting to say that in Article 2 where you introduce Article 74c you specifically indicate "that to the civil servants referred to in paragraph 1 of this article" these are those who are now coming into the cabinets without the invitation to tender "no provisions of this law on probationary work, state expert examination, transfer and advancement apply". In other words, these officials shall not be subject to any provision of this law concerning the status of qualifications and the necessary knowledge of civil servants. So at least it was correct to say that these are not actually civil servants, this is some kind of special new kind of contract staff who come by the Holy Spirit or by the will of the monarch, and it is evident that they come and go exclusively by the decision of the minister who employs, so don't even put them in civil servants because that makes the difference between the civil servants for whom some rules apply and those for whom these rules don't apply. It would therefore be more correct if it were a particular type of contract staff, to prescribe for them, in particular, certain provisions of the law that apply to this working relationship and to know what will happen to these people. Except that there is a possibility that you can create enough places for them and assumptions in the internal rules that when the term of office expires, they will not leave with their minister with whom they have come but rather be assigned to appropriate jobs in those same ministries. I also wanted to say something special because it is our special objection to Article 4 of this Law, which is the introduction of the transfer of civil servants to the needs of the service. The needs of the service are one very stretching general category which you have not defined with this law, you have not defined who determines the need for the service, what it is, in which number of cases can be applied and how eventually the official will be able to complain or object to the decision that is being made here in this article, and it means, without the consent of the officials, it is now possible to move the civil servant to any local self-government unit or even to any institution whose salaries are secured in the state budget, and thus, of course, you will open the door to completely change the picture of the state administration that everyone has spoken in the opening speeches on the sides of the positioning parties. And I will remind you that even this law as bad as it was the product of a political idea and the work of civil servants. And if it weren't for them, you wouldn't even be able to propose it to this House. Thus, the State Service, and it will show time and it is too massive, nor can it be spoken of in general and in general by the principle that it is not good and that it is not able to do its job in quality. In fact, our beliefs are different. In view of the fact that you denied the law that existed in all the laws so far, and yet today there is also a law on tenants in the local law with which this law is in contrast again, you have not been able to relocate civil servants without their consent. And according to this proposal not only do you not seek consent but you can even move them against their will to the bodies of local self-government and the public sector. To caricate, it means that tomorrow you can move someone from the archives to a clinical hospital in a nurse's seat because this law allows you to do so. Finally, the provision of that same Article 5 which is completely unclear, and which you did not say here or did not have the opportunity to say so by the Union of State and local officials, the procedure when a strict procedure is being conducted against the officials where the consent of the trade union was sought, the proposal for this law may be replaced by a decision of the competent administrative court. I really don't see how someone came up with the idea that union negotiations, union agreements, or union consent in this case can be replaced by the function of a competent administrative court, but maybe it's a good practice that union negotiations in the future are not run by trade unions but by competent administrative courts. Thank you very much. HDZ will be against this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5601	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Mlakar. There's been a report on this exhibit of yours of yours of a misstatement. Honorable representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5602	Mr. Mlakar said that this law introduces the need for service and that category is marked by a stretching and foggy category. However, this category is not introduced by this law, this category exists in the existing law in Article 76 which states that a civil servant may, if necessary, be transferred to another post, etc. This is, of course, an existing law, which is not introduced by this law, and it is a little strange that the forgetfulness of the minister who, on two occasions, was the minister of administration and is probably the most responsible for the state of the state administration of the Republic of Croatia. ... The fact that it's not this law, it's an earlier law. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5603	I think the correction was more than correct because it stated exactly what is written in the existing law and corrected the assumption that this category is being introduced by a new law. Therefore, the correction was more than correct. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Josip Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5604	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, I'd say what associated me listening to the debate so far. One folk proverb says "the smaller the scream." Secondly, I would remind both you and the Croatian public that in recent or recent years, the state administration has not been growing in efficiency in line with the public administration's awakening. It's a generally accepted position. Third thing I also want to say before the position of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia club, let's not fool ourselves. In the past, the authorities have increased the enormous number of civil servants or deputies, and we cannot help but assume that this was not in line with the needs, general needs and requirements for a more efficient, more efficient state administration than with the needs of political decision-making, political adjustment or authorities acting in that period of responsibility for the state administration. Because of this, the first thing I would ask on behalf of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia, the club in the Croatian Parliament to create a register of jobs and a register of employees, employees in the state administration from state to municipality. And in order to be able to enforce this law, it is also necessary. So the debate on the state administration is not about abstract matters, the bureaucratic apparatus is about people who form the foundation of the state. The debate on state administration reform at this time is a debate on changing the understanding of civil servants, their role and tasks within the system of state administration. We must say that the socially efficient management of human potentials in the state and public administration is being imposed as a central issue of the functioning of the state administration system in the Republic of Croatia, as well as a change in the overall direction in Croatian society. The proposed amendments to the Law on civil servants relating to the terms of the transfer, and now we have just spoken, have been almost a confused workplace regardless of the results and needs of the job. It is not possible in changing the direction of Croatian politics and the Croatian economy to come from the point of view I am protected, either by law or political logic. The proposal for a change to be made for the schedule or deployment of officials and deputies within the State administration is fully logical for the needs of the service. This really puts a huge responsibility on the heads, on the heads of the government's body. But their responsibility is two-way, both to workers and to citizens. According to the workers, they would hope if there were to be an injury very quickly to find their own protection from an independent court, but if there was any harm to the citizens' interest it was difficult to correct quickly, and that seems to me to be the most difficult case so far. What is proposed to change? In order to deploy the staff and subsistence staff, not from the position of one job for which the relevant expert prepares and the relevant knowledge and experience on the lower professional gear, although that is logical, but retains the position of the job, I speak classically, for which the same expert prepares and the same experience is sought. Therefore, passivity must be ensured in order to increase efficiency in the state administration. As regards the proposal that specific posts such as cabinets of ministers, Prime Ministers, Presidents of the Parliament and other state bodies may be without competition but for a certain period of time until the term of office of the Head of Staff who decides on reception or before the decision of the Head of Staff, officials, or civil servants who do not have direct responsibility as a civil service. They're in the position of that manager, manager, leader or whatever you want the state body. They're also legally dependent on him, but they're also legally dependent on him. They do not work, as I would say, as a service of citizens, they work to make the leader do his job, to accomplish his job. That's even the logic of the government's schedule. There's a part of the workers, part of the employees, part of the organization that doesn't care who's head of the state body, or what's the option in power at all. They're doing their job and they'll be fined if there's a need to fine one of the citizens no matter who's head of the state body. He'll charge parking tickets no matter who the minister is or who's not the minister. These officials, these deputies, this state administration must be independent of the political option that is in power or political leader. They must issue a tax ruling whether Leko or someone third in charge of the Ministry of Finance is in accordance with the law. But when materials are prepared, laws are prepared, any materials, strategies that act and work for the head of state administration are politically dependent. Of course they have to work professionally, they have to propose professionally. Because it's their job, but according to the leader's instructions. So it is not disputed that the exception to the rules is what is proposed, that it has full logic, the full logic is in charge of the leader, he decides, he responds and leaves with him. I don't want to say that I'm making no drama. However, there is one problem whether it will be possible to find the job market suitable people who will accept these conditions. But that's another problem. That's another problem. We must enable those who have received the trust to put together a team for whom they will be held accountable and who will ensure that they do what they promised. As far as the bill of law relating to the union commissioner is concerned. The union commissioner has a double role in the state body. One is that he must do his job for which he has been paid and corresponds by the principles of every official in the state body. The second is to represent union interests. And under these circumstances, there must be a solution that even the union commissioner has a responsibility to the head, the head of the state body, but also that the manager cannot be held accountable to the union commissioner. In such circumstances, the Proposer found analogy in the Labour Act. Even in the Labour Act, the competent court is required to resolve, instead of the union, the consent to initiate proceedings. What was more logical than a civil servant predicts that the Administrative Court is doing. Whether the courts are going to solve or not, it's again to say, if we're going to look at it that way, we'll never come to a solution. We have to have one, so to speak legal logic. If there is a similar solution in law, and there is a similar solution in the Labour Act, it is logical that we also seek such a solution for employees, i.e. employees, or subsistence in the State Administration. All in all, therefore, it is essential to say that the fundamental thing to change responsibility in Croatian society is the political responsibility of the representatives, i.e. the Head of State, and thus the Government. It's a fundamental difference from saying so from hiding behind a contest. It is clear here that the head of the body is clearly indisputable and that he is responsible for his associates. It can't be slow. Such a clear situation for me and for the Social Democratic Party club in the Croatian Parliament is good and therefore we will vote for this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5605	Thank you, dear colleague Leko. Now, first notice. At 10 o'clock and 54 minutes, it's time to report a ten-minute hearing. Second, Vice-President of the House, the distinguished representative of Jadranka Kosor tells us that we have broken the Rules of Procedure in some place. Let's hear about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5606	Mr. Vice President, I'm not answering anything, I'm correcting myself for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, and then after that, I'm correcting the incorrect allegations. Namely, Mr. Vice President Leko was starting his pledoies and he was saying...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5607	.../Intruder Stazic: You can tell which article is injured./...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5608	I'm talking about hurting the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5609	.../Intruder Stazic: Which article?/...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5610	All articles that speak of the conduct of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. So, speaking after Mr. Mlakar's representative who spoke on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community's Club, Mr. Leko said, thus opening his dissension "as little as possible a bigger scream". I saw it as discrimination. I think that statement is contrary to the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, which I personally wrote as a minister. I mean, we're all as big and small here, there's no concern here, no one's yelling here. I wish Mr. Representative Leco had the courage to make the most of what he was talking about. However, the fact is that any qualifications of anyone in this House who spoke either individually or on behalf of the club are not allowed in this way. So please remind Mr. Vice President Lek. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5611	Like this, you didn't call in the article first. As vice president of the House and as a longtime representative, you should know that you must refer to a specific article that has been broken. The sentence "the smaller the bigger the scream" certainly did not violate any of our Rules of Procedure because our Rules of Procedure did not say that qualifications could not be expressed, this qualification was not offensive to anyone, and thus the Rules of Procedure was not violated. And the third thing, Madam Vice President, is no discussion with the president. There's no argument. So I can't give you a breach of the Rules of Procedure again now because there's no debate. ... Article 209 states that there is no discussion with the President's desk. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's hear what the article of the Rules of Procedure is now broken. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5612	Mr. Vice President, Article 209, but so does everyone else who talks about how a session is being chaired. You do not have the right to comment on what I have stated as my point of view on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. You have no right to do that. I'm not arguing with you, I'm making my point and I still feel that Mr. Vice President Leko has violated the Rules of Procedure. And please give lessons about what we're going to talk about and how we're going to behave don't share with the President's desk because that's why you abuse your function, and that's clearly what our Rules of Procedure says. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5613	Now, here's what I have to do again, because that's what the Rules of Procedure tells me. The Article 209 you called for is not broken because Article 209 says that the representative who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure will be given the word as soon as he asks. So I would have broken Article 209 if I hadn't let you talk. Since I let you speak, the Rules of Procedure has not been broken. I guess that's logical and clear. Secondly, I have no right to argue that, but I am obliged to give an explanation because it also says in our Rules of Procedure and I have given that explanation to you. And now we're crossing... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We still have one breach of the Rules of Procedure before we move on to correcting incorrect allegations. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, Mr. Milorad Batinic, vice president of the House, reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5614	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You just said what I was about to suggest that Madam Vice President Kosor hurt Article 209. Let me read what it says, I believe the vice president knows, so the president is obliged to give an explanation of what you did after the complaint was made. And thank you for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5615	So, here's the deal. Through this violation of the Rules of Procedure that we have now heard, we have made little clear what our Rules of Procedure is saying and how we must behave in this Rules of Procedure. The more we stick together with the Rules of Procedure, the easier it will be for us to work. And now we're moving on to corrections. It was almost at the same time that Mr. Shucker and Mrs. Kosor were raised by the vice president of the House and Mr. Mlakar. I, given that you've raised your hands at the same time, give the lady a head start. Mrs. Kosor, Vice President of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5616	Mr. Vice President, you don't have to give me any leverage as a lady, I'm here as a representative and I'm doing my job. Therefore, if and when I have raised for correcting the incorrect allegations in that order, give us and speak. So, Mr. Leco, speaking on behalf of the SDP club, said that the past power increased enormously, "a number of employees". That's not true, that's an incorrect assumption. I remind Mr Lek, who does not have that the previous government I led made at the end of 2009 a decision prohibiting employment in the state administration, additional employment except for the need for negotiations to join the EU. Whatever it is you think in SDP, it's a fact and it's true. And it is sad to hear from the party's representative, the ruling party, who, through these amendments to the law, introduced employment exclusively by political similarity by returning, among other things, to administrations and boards of public companies, people who are exclusively political alike. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5617	Second Amendment, Honorable Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5618	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm sorry that Vice President Lek is not here, the matter that regulates this law covers 8.5,000 civil servants. This is simply to be said for the sake of the Croatian public, and it is incorrect that the state administration was emerging. Let us determine what state officials and tenants are and what public services are. And I think that finally in this House because of those people who do their job fair and square, we should clear up. So 8.5 thousand people to them apply this law. And the other thing is, it's incorrect that those who will be subject to the political criteria will write laws. Why? Because the laws are written by norms, it's special knowledge and special expertise and can't be done by someone who's never been to the state administration to come to the state administration and write a law because he simply doesn't know how to do it. It's as crafty as any other, so it's incorrect that they'll write the laws, and now these civil servants and tenants aren't able to do it. And it's the same for those people the truth that we in this high house should tell. No one can come to the ministry and he'll write the law because he just doesn't know how to write it. And that's the truth and the fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5619	Thank you very much. Third Amendment, Honorable Representative Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5620	Thank you very much. I am correcting Mr. Leka's incorrect allegations that the government has passed, the government has enormously increased the number of employees in the state administration in the past term, if I recall exactly what he said. According to data publicly published and owned by the Ministry of Administration, the past government has been able to check the number of state administration employees by 3.5% of the projected 5% of the economic recovery programme. Unfortunately, regardless of the people's wisdom and the impressive structure and the beautiful character of Mr. Leca, he's not here to hear the correction and to realize that he was saying something that was completely incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5621	This concludes the debate by clubs and we move on to an individual debate in which we have 10 registered representatives. The first is the honourable representative Jasen Mesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5622	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I would agree with all those previous speakers who spoke on behalf of various clubs that it is totally unacceptable that such an important law for the functioning of the state administration and we said that the aim of this law is to improve the state administration, to make it more efficient to pass by an urgent procedure. Totally unnecessary. Of course it doesn't say anywhere, though it's said that only the rules on internal order will be told how much jobs can be hired in this way without a public competition, whether it'll be in one cabinet two, three, five, 10, nobody's saying that. We only hear estimates that it'll be about a hundred people. I am sorry that some previous speakers, for example, said on behalf of the HNS Club that only few people in the state administration are employed according to their professional characteristics but only by political likeness. Here I see some colleagues and colleagues who work at the foreign ministry, who work in some other ministries, who are members of various political options that have been employed in these authorities of the state administration or ministries according to their qualifications, I am convinced of that. I can tell you my example. I don't know which party card would help someone get a job as an underwater archaeologist if they didn't have professional qualifications, for a simple reason, because when doing their first task, one would drown regardless of party membership. So what kind of message are we sending with this? We don't say how many people they'll be, it'll be settled by the rules. At the same time, we say when the minister leaves then they can be deployed elsewhere if they meet the requirements briefly. However, it is also said that these same people do not have to pass a state expert exam. Why? Who's bothered by the state's expert exam, are the people in the cabinet who were brought in to help the minister don't need a state expert exam, exactly the opposite. Because how else is it going to help the minister, how else is he going to help him do his job better, we release them from the state's professional exam, and at the same time we're asking officials who are coming through a public tender to pass it on within a certain time. Where there's logic, where there's a logical explanation that just like that, these civil servants will help with better quality work. After all, why don't we leave these amendments and additions to the law to individual ministers to call a public tender, so that it's possible that each of these ministers and ministers knows in this country who are his best men to fill their seats in the cabinet. There are hundreds of people in the competition, perhaps it's a good platform that you're a minister or minister who chooses the best associates who will be able to perform the tasks in their cabinet, or that every minister is so familiar with the labour market that he knows exactly what the best people are. I speak of course with the desire to help ministers in the government. He knows all the people who can do it, and he knows the best, and that will make his cabinet more effective. And unlike the ministers, say you, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, you don't know that, because for the head of the office of the Vice-President of the Parliament, a public tender must be held. I do not understand what the logic is, if we go logically to the cabinets of the minister to go appointment without a public tender, regardless of the professional qualification of colleagues and colleagues, regardless of whether anyone has or has no confirmation of punishment or is being held against him, regardless of whether it is important but at the same time but related to the esteemed vice president of Mr. Stazic's Croatian Parliament, he will have to conduct a tender in order for someone to be appointed head of his office for a term of four years. So where's the principle? Where this principle of improving the efficiency of all of us who are somehow from the citizens and citizens of this country are tasked with doing so. Furthermore, as regards the amendments to Article 76 which states that the official will be able to be transferred from one post to another without consent, which means literally that the restorer or the paper restorer’s staff in the archives can literally be moved to the municipality of St. Sunday, St. Sunday's City, I apologize. And finally, what motive do we send to young people who are currently in the schooling process? Do we send these young people a message that you have to graduate English, German, you have to finish law school, because it will be a condition for you to get a job in the state service. Either we send them a message no, you have to be good with the future minister or minister, so you'll definitely get a seat in his cabinet, then you won't even have to pass a state expert exam because it won't matter, so why would the Chief of Staff have to pass the state's professional exam, but will be released from it because you were good with the future minister. I want to tell you once again on my own personal example, I spent my whole life in the state administration, of course working age, since 96, working both during the HDZ ministers and during the SDP ministers, and that, in accordance with my work in the state service, I have progressed. It is totally unacceptable that a number of speakers systematically say that people have only been employed by political similarities, I can tell you in sectors that I know well hundreds, many more examples where these people are employed there because they have professional qualifications. And at the end of all our employees in the Croatian Parliament also such a message, no, you are less acceptable and less valuable, because for them you have to go to a public tender to get to some position, to advance in your service unlike your colleagues and colleagues who are here can be appointed. If we had already wanted to speed up the whole thing, we'd have called internal public tenders and seen in systems in some ministries where hundreds of people work, if there was such a profile of people who could be working in individual cabinets, then they'd have cut those costs that are waiting for us to increase the amount of wages they're sure to pay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5623	Thank you. We have two replicas. First respected representative, Melita Mulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5624	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I would like to replicate my fellow Mesic in the sense that I will even agree in certain parts of his exposure in the sense that you are not the only one on this side of the assembly that the civil servants or the good majority of them are professionals. Many of us, including the current Prime Minister, were government officials. So this state service can regress the good part and the good part here is a colleague and colleagues who were equally civil servants today are state officials according to the law. I think there's a steady non-discipline. I hope that it will be corrected in relation to a part of the civil servants, i.e. the people whom ministers can bring to their cabinet, and that the Croatian Parliament, its President and Vice-Presidents will equalise themselves to obtain equal representation of both the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government when it comes to the chances of civil servants when it comes to such high places. In view of this, you also referred to the state's expert examination. You know that the obligation to pass a state-run expert exam has resulted from the way it was entered into the state service, therefore through an extraordinary or regular route. Given that in this case it is the officers who come and go if they are not hired through a work competition and that they will not be held in the system of state administration there is no need to do so. For 4 years, therefore, they are the closest co-workers of ministers and do not stay in the system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5625	We will also hear the reply to the replica, the distinguished representative Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5626	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am pleased to hear from my colleague Mulic for the replica, namely, I was just thinking about her when I said that many people are employed in the state administration according to their professional qualifications, which I am sure is what my colleague Mulic owns. If I could say it directly that I am, by any chance, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, I would certainly first bring you colleagues Mulić, who have been working in that system for a long time, who you know system, who you passed a state expert exam, but I would bring anyone else to say so on the side. That's the answer to the first question. And since these people won't stay in the state administration system for long, they'd better stay much shorter than four years. Maybe a year or two, then I could still accept that I don't need a state-of-the-art exam. If someone is working on a term of office so don't tell me you can't set a six-month deadline in the course of which a civil servant has to pass a state expert exam. Why? Who's that bothering? Are they able to pass the state's professional exam? I believe they are, then let's give them that commitment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5627	And another replica of Honorary Representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5628	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Fellow Mesic this was very nice what you said that just eight years had not been done anything else, e.g. you couldn't have been in Croatian highways at the checkout houses if you didn't pay anywhere from 5 to 10 thousand euros or if you didn't, and it was then that boom of membership of young people in HDZ if you didn't get a party card through a public tender, though. But the public tender itself doesn't necessarily mean he's transparent. So many children of the dead Croatian defenders and Croatian defenders themselves could not get the job. However, today and this proposal of this law, this is a scandal over scandals because this is about and I don't quite understand the need for every minister to have a spokeswoman or not to speak or know what he's doing or the state is really so bad that someone instead has to get paid and explain to people what's actually going on in the government and what's going on in Nice Croatia. Since I'm burning red so I don't get to the Rules of Procedure of a certain sanction, I'm saying this is an extremely bad law, a law that will be party and you won't blame me for not mentioning a more difficult word I'm going to tell the halftrons who bought new shoes to keep in the system for four years and get a fat pay for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5629	Answer the esteemed Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5630	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Thank you, esteemed colleague. I've been listening very carefully to your very elaborate exposés during your presentation on behalf of the club, but I have to say, I'd actually like to supplement you. It is well known that employment in some units of local administration and self-government in some cities and even in cities we heard even in Đakov is very important that people who are employed in local administration and self-government are very loyal to the leader and local administrations and self-government, and this has happened over the past year. So when we're talking about the bad things that have happened in the past, we have to go systemically, from the beginning, so what's first in front of our eyes, and then we're just going to go to the payhouses. Although, of course, that doesn't justify the phenomena that were happening. But we're all here to make it better in the future, not worse. I love history very much, I've graduated history but you don't need Mr. esteemed colleague every time to do a historical analysis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5631	It was a very correct replica, but we have a report of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. So please, what article is injured and in what?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5632	Article 214 demeans you, has not offended you, obviously you cannot be offended, but other MPs in this case are me. You see, my dear colleague, I wish you'd told me the name and name of that person who took care of the head of local self-government, and I hired him. The only thing I could hire was through a public tender. However, it may be a slightly different case for certain commercial companies in which certain party syncures want to take over power in these companies in order to continue to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5633	Like this, first argument. Article 214 was not injured because he would be injured if the representative were to belittle or insult the president or other MPs. Representative Mesic did not insult anyone, MP Mesic presented one of his visions, one of his political views. That is why Parliament exists, to express political views that are different, of course. So this is classic, what you've done now is a classic abuse of the Rules of Procedure and that warns us all that we're going to have to change this Rules of Procedure to avoid it because otherwise there will be no end. A respected representative, Mesic, also reported on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. ... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] By expressing his political stance, he did not make an insult. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] An insult would be... We will now hear the violation of the Rules of Procedure of Mr Mesic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What article?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5634	214th because I must say, Mr. Vice President, that my esteemed colleague, Agent Vinkovic, insulted me. Therefore, I must say that here I have the right to express my political opinion and my position, and I owe it to the citizens of Slavonia and Baranja who have just complained of such actions. I wouldn't name it because I don't want to make it harder for people. That's why I didn't name them, just as you didn't name them bound to what you said along the Croatian highways that I don't want to defend at all, that we understand each other. But I say once again we're here to make it better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5635	This is how an insult can be a relative category, so anyone can appeal to Article 214 and say that he is offended after each exposure. But I repeat, it only makes us change this Rules of Procedure as soon as possible. We're continuing an individual debate. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5636	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Why this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants, which was presented in public with this novel, so that a certain number of people can be employed in the cabinets of the Minister without a public tender, has caused so much duress and so many attacks by the opposition who loved to call competitions. Why? Because for the first time we have an open and transparent speech. Yeah, we'll hire these people just a few, without a public competition, those are people of our trust, they'll be there while we're gone. Why does that cause so much self-awareness? They say critics, not directly but in other words, can translate it, see what boast, what insolence, don't want to hide behind public competitions at all. Otherwise, in Croatian society and with us, the most suspicions and suspicions cause what is open and what is clear, and what is given to dangle, shut up, play, it is something that Croatia is already used to. That's what needs changing. And nobody's saying that public tenders are not a good thing, that they're a great thing, but only under conditions when you see what conditions are prescribed and when these conditions are absolutely to the limits objective. So every pretender in a particular place knows in advance that because of their measured qualities and which are measurable, they will be chosen, and they don't care what political consolidation is in power, whether they or they, whether they like it or not, when its characteristics are such that no one can refute them. But Croatia, unfortunately, we will agree that finally and the time has come, I see from these discussions, especially our younger colleagues who agree exactly that there have been cases and don't God forbid it couldn't have been because of this, because of such individual cases Croatia has also maintained and is moving forward despite what is prevailing and what needs to be changed. So we're familiar with cases, we all know friends, neighbors, relatives, known and unknown coming, says I would answer the contest but they told me it was already called for someone. So we all know these great abuses, but this institute itself doesn't mean that it's bad because it's possible and because abuses have happened. So state administration, we're going to see a little bit and what's with school, we need a simple school, we need to develop it further, but also after that school, these students have to have such knowledge that they're going to be tested in such a way almost identical to what we've created a school for judges, for judicial officials where to the extreme limits everything is objectiveized, where they know exactly what criteria they're going in for, how they're progressing and how they're leaving the service. Then we'll be able to say that we've got a qualified and depolitized state service, that is, civil servants and tenants. The fact is, and no one can deny it, that from year to year, the state administration was booming, and yet we didn't get the administration that was at the service of the citizens. This is best seen from the audit, from the government's state labour audit, on the work of the ministries, so it was seen how many individual ministries, although they could spend up to 2% of the total funding of the employees' salaries, although they employed new people, spent as much as 5% to 6% of the funds for salaries in those intellectual services ministries, because all those they hired were not good enough, were not staff to solve or meet the tasks they were employed for. And that's why the ministries hired people who then paid for the contract of action. It's obvious to all of you. So there's always a question of how many government employees there are. I spent six years looking and asking, asking a question, and getting an answer to how many there were in total. So again, I thought the government didn't understand the question, so I listed all the ministries by their names and begged them to answer. I'm not interested in the total number, but how many new employees are employed during a certain period. First, from 2004, to the sixth, to the eighth. The answer has never arrived, or the answer has come about how busy people are. So, what's it for? It is the eternal reading that remains today whether we have enough people or whether people are missing. It is obvious that people who are employed do not meet exactly what they need, the needs of citizens. And you really need to do a deep analysis to see first of all by the burden of how many individual employees and tenants are employed, where they are missing, where there are too many. I think it's crucial to do that. But besides that, it's been shown to us, we all know that they've been working through the ministries, and they know at least from a nearby structure their way of working that there's engines in the state, engines that pull jobs and work 12 hours at a time. And there are those who make out. I'm always happy to point out an example for an Austrian who doesn't know what it is to keep the administration quiet, who already set off with a single pilot program eight years ago to improve their state administration and generally public administration. So they created such a pilot program by which they determined that all statesmen, officials and tenants would have minimum wage but would be able to achieve double and triple the amount of pay they solve. After a very short period of time, a few days, it happened that colleagues began breaking into each other’s closets and taking records to get as much pay as possible and to solve cases. Therefore, it is not true that only physical, manual, or stripwork can be measured and measured. It can be measured and this work should only have the strength to do so. And the reward must also be there according to the work, and one who does not realize the effects but the tavors of them should be so designed, designed to thank them for so far in the quotes of effort. In addition to the law being prepared and I believe that we will finally agree to receive such a bill where we will bring to the extreme the objective criteria so when the authorities come, they go that there are people who not only stay but because of their quality and progress. Unfortunately, we will need this great and extensive normative work, while here is an example when we are always discussing such and similar topics falling to the mind of Empress Maria Teresa, who has reduced the entire state administration to six lines. There were norms and ethical natures, but also these about the very functioning of the administration. So it's said to come at seven o'clock and stay until fifteen o'clock in the afternoon, but also longer if it's natural nature as it's spoken for. They are forbidden to talk, to fight, to fight, to drink, and to receive customers in their too shorts, but to honor the councils always keep in mind. That was enough for the state administration to be effective in which the modern administration of Europe and the whole world rests. Therefore, by supporting the proposal of this Law, I expect that we will soon receive this bill in which all young people will have faith that it is possible to build a career in the state administration, and all, not only on their own but above all to the satisfaction of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5637	Thank you very much. We have four replicas reported to your presentation of respected MPs. The first replica was reported by respected MP Boro Grubisic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5638	Thank you very much. Comrade Ingrid, I always listen very carefully to your presentations. I have never heard from you in general for the five years that I am in the Croatian Parliament, and never so little concrete in relation to the opinion of this legislative proposal. But what got me caught up in it, and why I raised a replica plate, is that you were talking about school and professional preparation, that is, those who are capable of acting as a civil servant. Well, you see, if you look at exactly this legislative proposal, and obviously either you hid the text a little bit, or you didn't want to comment on it, or you were speaking in general about what the minister's office should implement in the future, about a new state administration, you forgot that it says here that in the affairs of state officials, especially these new 100, 115 are receiving those who work closely with the minister. If that's the criterion, I don't write school. Secondly, if you don't think that the state and professional exam is also part of a school arrangement, then I also don't understand what you were talking about. Mr Mesic was just talking about this, about a state-run expert exam that is not needed in this legislative proposal at all this time. Well, for a nurse, it takes a test to get her started. He can't work without a state-run professional exam as a nurse, you can't get a job. But here in the state service, in such an important position, it is also important to thank God the nurse even more. But for such positions it is said not to be necessary, but to work closely with the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5639	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5640	Well, you don't need to be convinced that I spoke of that provision the most. It's an article two, that it's a clean bill that the authorities need a few people and she's telling it openly. These are the people of our trust who are the first ones with us to be responsible for the implementation of the policy we implement. We enjoyed the quotes a lot in 2000 on policy implementation. If they came to the field downstairs about certain procedures and people's conducts, they had no idea. Citizens would have been removed if they'd never heard of such things. Hence, it is the right thing to do with practical solutions. In today's situation in which Croatia was located, where the state administration found this is necessary and fair. It's a message. You came with us, you're leaving with us, and we didn't drag you in like we enjoyed being through the contest, which through no competition through secret service. Because then there's no need for a contest at all, and then it's being circulated throughout the entire system. Aren't you familiar with such cases?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5641	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5642	You see, dear colleague Boro, by explaining to you that I am further replicating my dear colleague. In politics, there are often politicians who disagree with their opinion and then raise their hand to a law like this, and obviously this is about opening the way to something that we thought was a long time ago and it's not about responsible people, it's about responsibility, it's about pure entanglement of party personnel. It's not humanizing. It's incarceration. They'll get into the system, it'll be four years, you don't know what number of people it is. Is that two speakers, or is that maybe 5,000 people? At this point in the state service, there are about 231,000 employees, and that's not the final number. And nearly 10 million kunas were paid for that job, and that job was due to be completed in 2011. The current minister disproves himself and disproves those thesis that someone has hired 60,000 new employees in the state administration. That's what you had a chance to look at in the media. And what will happen in a few days this is a clear message no more public tenders, no more transparency but come, get a party book and you will soon become a state official or a state official with a fat and fat salary. And you don't even have to finish school.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5643	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5644	Dear Mr. Replicator, colleague Anticevic. She wondered and argued, wondering what was behind the Institute of Public Competitions? I wouldn't even look back on her exposure if it were just hers, but I think the question and the devastation of the Institute of Public Competition in this House has been present for days and weeks. Behind the institute, counterpart Anticevic, a public tender hides an attempt by the state administration to sort of humane and professionalise state governance and move it away from politics to improve and improve its efficiency. Behind this, and I'm going to ask you, or I'm going to ask myself a question in the replica of you, and what does that mean to end the Institute of Public Competition, which means public recognition of yours to abolish the Institute of Public Competition and introduce political similarity? That's what you're publicly saying, you're neither hiding nor trying to wrap it up in a cellophane, you're making it public. And I will now answer you what it means to introduce a public similarity. So returning the retrograde process 20 years back when it was official during communism was official for any employment of the political similarity institute. And if I was employed in the state service, I had to fulfill whether I was a member of the Communist Union or not. And since I didn't have to write myself that I'm doing good street cleaning in the local community or listening to my mother and father well, etc. So you've been taking a step back for 20 years. And you claim it's good for the state. I don't think so, I don't think you can get a quality frame in that way and it'll be third-class officials who'll just carry bags and serve the bosses in some way in a service way without any benefit to the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5645	Replicate response, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5646	Well, you often mention socialism to your colleague Marasovic, and your thoughts are constantly running away, which is understandable to me because then you managed to finish both medicine and get a job. However, we are here today in the 21st century, in new conditions, in many ways it is much more difficult, and in many things it is much easier, but let me look back on what you said even falsely. So, with this bill of law, we don't cancel the competitions anywhere, but just for a particular circle, very narrow circle of people we say openly we won't hide behind a public tender, these are the people who will work closely in the cabinet with the minister himself and will go with him. So they won't stay as they have been until now that the new set has always hired people in the same contest and then left them in the system. And then you have a fact, dear colleague Marasovic, you may not even know that in the Croatian Assembly, which is the most legislative body of the Republic of Croatia, we have only 10% lawyers. It's all in the contest.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5647	Thank you very much. The next replica is the esteemed representative of Zeljko Reiner. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5648	I would like to refer to two claims, in fact, by the distinguished representative Antičević-Marinović. One is that we get a qualified, quote, and a depolitical state so that in one segment we can cancel public tenders for one category of people. That's what I quote exactly what was said. I don't see how we're going to get a qualified one like that, and certainly not a depolitical state. When it is said that what is abolished, at least for one segment so segment per segment of it we are aware of the law in law, and the concept of public competition and the application of a public competition, and then it is interpreted as being more transparent than boredom. If the system of public competitions was played, of course, it was bad and we're all against it and we should always be against it. But certainly nothing is better if we say no clearly, we will spend what we want, and for everyone else we don't care. Therefore, this does not mean transparency that simply means force, power, supremacy in this House, but everywhere else. And on the other hand, I have to agree with the honourable representative to follow and it takes great and extensive normative work, to get a lot of things in order. Because certainly this will not bring order to the state administration on the one hand, and on the other hand I must remind this esteemed House that this is just another law of the series, and all the laws that have been before this House have been passed exclusively by emergency procedure. I personally think it's extremely bad and no one can convince me it's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5649	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5650	I'm going to say once again, the urgency of the situation solves these and imposes the necessity of passing and these short changes and, of course, by emergency procedure. And Croatia is not in one normal situation, you will agree all together, but after this I will repeat, this refers to a very narrow circle of people who will leave with the furniture so they will not stay in the system, and I repeat, I think we are already a little bit all agreeing on that we need then to amend the Law on civil servants and tenants in which it is possible to build a career and an objective criterion, where we will, on the basis of objective criteria, come to people who will have an interest in this service all in order to be able to fulfil the task that we all always talk about. And where, then, the debates we're still having will be excellent. I repeat the situation is such that it is simple for the ruling to be forced into such a situation. And that's fair enough that they said so, and let's get used to that kind of openness, and openness doesn't mean haughtiness. Because so far, only corruption has been arrogant.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5651	Thank you very much. We are going forward with an individual debate, the Honorable Vice-President of the House Nenad Stazic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5652	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President. Have the ministers chosen their cabinet heads yet? Did Minister Calmeta choose his chief of staff, did Minister Schuker choose his chief of staff? Did they have the right to choose their associates? I certainly didn't choose Minister Shuker, nor Minister Lovrin, nor Minister Calmeti chose the chief of staff or spokesmen, which is what they did and it's natural. Were they satisfied with those whom they found, if they were satisfied, then they kept them. If they weren't happy, they'd be replaced, so why would the chief of staff do him no good? Well, that's perfectly natural and perfectly normal. And anyone who'd advocate a different solution, I think you'd be thinking in the wrong direction. Now, what's this about? Whether the minister chooses to leave with the minister or stay in the system, then let the system take care of him as it knows. A new minister will come, he may not be satisfied with it, but then this will find some other place and that will increase the system. What are the places of the official that this law covers? Well, it's the chief of staff, the advisor, the spokeswoman, they're gone. It's the most trusted team he has to trust, because how he'll work if he doesn't trust them, and how one should come to mind that he should impose a minister on whom he will work. In a public tender, there are two types of public competitions, there are really public competitions where they try to find the best quality and best because we don't know, nobody knows who would be now, and they're sought through a public tender the highest quality person. But there's a public competition with a picture. So it's actually a fictitious public tender. About the value of public competitions, so please, and Buljubasic is probably busy with a public competition, isn't that saying enough about the nature of public competitions? Therefore, when we speak to a public competition, let us not speak of a sacred cow. Let's just say what it's all about. In principle, a public tender is good when you really are looking for the best person for a particular job, but when the minister is looking for his co-worker to work with every day, then he doesn't need that public tender, because by now the minister is doing something in his life to know who might be doing it best. And I guess he's right about who he agrees with, who he's working well with to get him to work with. On one condition only, the minister goes away and he goes away. And this law foresees exactly that, when the minister goes away and all those covered by this Law do not remain in the system and the question of whether they will agree to it. Because that means it's four years. The question is whether four, elections can be extraordinary, they lose their jobs, they lose it along with the minister. What's wrong with that? Or worse than what happened so far, the minister lost the election and left and this one would remain in the system. So let the new government deal with him, let him look for a job. There's always a replication here that says there's no increase in the number of employees. Let's take the Croatian Parliament of the institution where we all work. In 89, there were 110 officials, and there were three Councils, 110 officials serving 3 councils. Today we have one council and 230 officials, so it hasn't increased. And now the way it increased. I'll tell you my example. I was in the last session as you know the chairman of the Media Committee, the administrative secretary retired, should have found a replacement, of course from the system as otherwise, not from the outside. I asked him to send me those who were unscheduled, to talk to them, to try to pick up an administrative secretary, my job is two people, to talk to them, to ask the first lady when you were employed in the Parliament in 2005. Which place, at the HDZ Club. There was no need for a public tender because clubs have the right to bring professional associates without a public competition. So she went through the HDZ Club to be transferred to some committee and became a full-time employee. I'm talking to someone else who was sent to me by an ex-secretary. When did you get a job at the Parliament? 2006. Which place? It's at the HDZ Club. So you're still at the HDZ club? No, no, no. She was transferred to a board. I didn't ask any further how many of those got into Parliament officials when we now have 230, and there were 110. So let's be honest, let's be honest. They did not enter any public competition, but it was actually a misused system and it was misused knowingly and deliberately. Consciously and deliberately with someone without a public tender, he brought them to the Parliament to be incarcerated. And were they the ones who needed the HDZ club? No, because they were there and the others were working. If they were necessary, they weren't. After a while, they were transferred, so why did it move them somewhere else? So you could take a new one. That's how it was done. Well, now I tell you what's fairer? So is it fairer or is this fairer when someone comes with one of the clerks and goes away, leaves with the minister. Or an objection to the applicant. I agree with what counterpart Mesic said if he gives the ministers why not parliament's leadership. I suggest that the government settle it with its amendment. That this applies and the amendment has arrived, great, the amendment to the government. It means it applies to both the president and the vice presidents of the Parliament. So when he stops being Vice President of the Parliament and his chief of staff stops working, he loses his job. If he's okay with it, he'll do it. But it certainly doesn't stay in the Assembly the way those who entered the HDZ Club stayed that way. And now you claim that this is unfair and that what was before was fair. I'm sorry I don't understand, but I'm quite sure the public will understand what this is all about, which is fair and unfair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5653	Thank you, too. We have three replicas on your display. The first line has a respected representative, Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5654	Your Honor, Vice President. The Vice President of the Parliament has said a few things he would refer to. On the one hand there was a comparison that I don't know in '89 there were 100 and some employees in the Parliament and now there are 200 and something with it as it claims it is now the awakening of the administration context is probably it. Whether there were too many or too few employees at the time when it was a unilateral system we can discuss. And the question of what pattern was it then that they came to you or were employed. My thesis is actually that these assessments are too much or too little have been done without analysis, without assessing the real needs and conditions, because I honestly think there are too few employees in the Croatian Parliament. Why? Because in all European parliaments, if you go to look at each MP, there are from one to seven advisers who work only for him and therefore the preparation and discussion and the laws and laws are far better done, prepared and the whole system works far better. So this analogy just doesn't work. On the other hand, honestly, I have a problem here with this logic, and what I did before was unfair, and this is now fair why it's going to be unfair how it used to be just going to be legal. I mean, it doesn't really work, but I'll explain it later in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5655	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5656	Dear Comrade Tudjman, I really don't know if there are too many or too few. That's not what I was talking about. In the U.S. Congress, you have such a situation that every congressman has the right to some advisors, three, five advisors paid by the state. He doesn't get the money as a congressman, so he pays them, he just reports them, they're my advisors. He can name his sister, a brother-in-law, and he can name a friend, and he can name someone smart who can give him something smart and counsel that's not related to him. And no one asks him who he is who... Croatia is too poor a country to have such a system. And I don't know if it's too few or too many today, but the fact that they went from 110 to three councils to 230 by one council. It's an indisputable fact. Our deputies don't have all the seats in these rooms in the Parliament, they have to go to this other building. They don't have enough cabinets. Representatives. This isn't a building that would be big enough to cover all the needs of a Parliament, they have to go to Opatic Street. But to claim that the number hasn't increased is actually a lie. The only thing I've been saying is that there's an increase in the number of administrations. That's more than 100%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5657	Thank you very much. The next entry for the replica is the respected deputy president of House Vladimir Seks. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5658	Thank you very much. You see, colleague Stazic, I have a great, deep, limitless understanding of this proposal for the Government's bill for legislator, and it is evident how it is inspired by noble intentions. So I'd show it a little bit on my own example from the past when I was in '85. In the year, I left a scientific institution and an institution with the prosaic name of KPD Stara Gradiška, and then, as a former judge and public prosecutor, I competed for some seats of lawyers. I failed because they replied that I had no moral political resemblance. Then I realized that really these intentions of this law are really far-reaching because the intention is for those who go with the team to leave the political stage and the team that is headed with. And that's exactly what I experienced when I was in '81. I went to the rearing then I couldn't go back to my earlier positions and then it was visibly shown to me. Then I tried to answer a thousand ads for the deceased's carrier, the undertaker, it's the Graveyard Act, it's gonna be interesting, for the undertaker, for the street launderer, the strawberry pickers, and the apples, and I still failed because it's been reported to me in an indirect way again you're not on the team, when your team comes, then you'll be able to be the bearer of the deceased and the undertaker. Then it came in the '90s when circumstances changed and I could be more what I became later.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5659	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5660	So I deeply understand your bill and sincerely feel sorry for its creators.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5661	Thank you very much. Replica response, Honored Representative Nenad Stazic, Vice President of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5662	Here's what your public tender is. You've been reporting for thousands of public tenders, and it wasn't worth anything to you, as the last 8 years, thousands of people of quality have appeared in public competitions, and it wasn't worth anything to them like it wasn't worth to you either. And you know why it wasn't worth anything to them, because your party wouldn't take them into the service. She didn't want you to know why, because they don't belong to your political option. And you solved your problem in the '90s, when you came to power politically because you weren't in the '90s, so your expertise was the same as a year or two before. You have been chosen by politics and politics and so far is holding you, as the policy has accepted and all of these in service for the last 8 years as HDZ is in power. Their announcements to the public contests were as valuable as yours by the '90s.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5663	Thank you. Replica, Madam Representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5664	Thank you very much. Mr. Stazic, I need to rephrase this story about the selection of my secretaries. In the past term, you've already told the board, so I answered you, here's to the public here again. So you're saying that you had a chance to choose a secretary in your working body of the Information Committee, so you asked them, so they were all at their disposal, and they came without a competition at the HDZ Club. If you were objective then you would probably mention that employees and employees were coming to the SDP club without a public competition. I've had to hear it, and I'm not saying it's true, but somehow there's talk here in Parliament that, for example. After losing the SDP in the 2003 elections, many ministry favorites found a home here in the Croatian Parliament and perhaps in the SDP club. But here you see, as president of one working body, Sui Genis in this term of the Croatian Parliament, I did not have the opportunity to choose my secretaries, the secretaries were assigned to me. I don't know if they're from the SDP club, maybe they are, I haven't questioned them for their political background because I don't even care because I believe that they'll know their professional jobs regardless of their political commitment, so they'll know how to make a phone call, they'll know what to write, they'll find some law because it's their expertise.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5665	Thank you. Replica reply, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Mr Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5666	I didn't choose my secretary when I became chairman of the board, either, but only when she retired, so she had to choose a new one between the existing officials. As for those who worked as advisors at the SDP club, I know them all by name. No one stayed in the Croatian Parliament, no one. And you could have asked these of yours if they accidentally entered as members of the SDP. I assure you there are no such ones here. That's why the system for the last eight years has been so worried that none of them would exist, but none of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5667	Thank you. Now you've got Mrs. Lovrin again you're saying in an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5668	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I'm not gonna support the amendment and the addition of the law anyway. First of all, I will not support him because I believe that he is completely opposed to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament by an urgent procedure, and since the constitution of this Assembly has now been almost three months, no draft law that was here before us has been in the regular procedure as required by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. So we made one exception, or you turned one exception into a rule. And for the sake of the public, I will read article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which speaks of the adoption of the law by emergency procedure, and this article says: Extraordinary legislation can only be passed by emergency procedure when the interests of the defence and other personally justified state reasons, i.e. when necessary in order to prevent or eliminate major disturbances in the economy. Well, now, if you claim that the first Deputy Prime Minister or any other minister is an important state reason and that it will remove the economic disturbances that he will choose his spokeswoman without a public tender, if that is such an important reason, please. I understand that we are passing an emergency procedure of laws that bring momentum into investment, which contribute to economic recovery, and I wouldn't say a word against that. But indeed, that these amendments to the law will contribute to that is beyond reason. Something else to tell me, and if I wasn't a participant, I wouldn't be able to believe it was true, which is that today's prime minister, and six months ago, an opposition representative as head of the SDP, along with his closest associates, is leaving and signing a request for the implementation of a referendum that has actually asked to be reflected in the fact that a completely irrational provision of the law under which certain collective agreements and to achieve benefits pro futurio without any time limit, regardless of the real economic opportunities and possibilities of the budget. Now this same political option when it comes to power together with the current prime minister is proposing legislation, these changes by an emergency procedure where all these rights are acquired, the same ones that are actually disabling under the collective agreement by this law, thus reducing the rights of officials in the event of a move of up to 30m, in the case of a layout of tasks of lower complexity, in the case of transfers without any consent between local self-government units, state administration, regional self-government and all those whose salaries are secured in the state budget, and that means all institutions, state and local and regional and children's kindergartens and hospitals and schools, etc. So it can move you as it pleases and wherever it wants without any conversation with you and consent and of course restricting the rights of union commissioners. The same prime minister who in his opening speech promised here in this assembly that every law would not be for the interest of a narrow number of people or of certain groups but would conduct a wide discussion with all interested parties to whom the law applies. I repeat, in three months, we have not yet had a single law in the regular procedure, but they are all under emergency procedure. So the consultation was nothing. In this main official law, the union of local and state officials was not absolutely consulted. So I don't know what else to talk about. But now we're going to measure this law, the text of the law. So, it is definitely further introduced politicisation of the state administration after, contrary to what we promised in the negotiation process, contrary to what we put into the Anti-Corruption Strategy. So we'll depolitize the state administration. In that sense, we also passed the Law on civil servants where we professionalized the state administration to high official positions. So, to be a professional administration, a professional administration, an effective state administration with career, high career civil servants. Now we're getting it all back. So, first of all, we were 80 ministerial assistants who had been named as directors of the administration as the basis of public competitions, so we opened up those positions that are paid for public money, where we are looking for the most professional people we have opened up to the general public and we have opened the transparency of reception. You can't have an institute that's transparent and good and it's a public tender because there were possible abuses then completely suspended because there was abuse. So, after 80 ministerial assistants who are now elected exclusively by political resemblance to this bill, we are introducing some more. Therefore, since there is no exact number of people in the cabinets of ministers, how this law promotes that employees, or officials in the cabinets of ministers, can be elected without a public competition. So, to name but approximately since this is regulated by the Internal Design Regulation for each ministry, and I estimate that at least five people have in each cabinet the Minister of Road 20 ministries, so the Office of the Prime Minister, the Office of the Prime Minister, let's say about 120 new people. You talk about political responsibility all the time. Yeah, maybe he'll say now that the first vice president of the government said that it's terribly important who he's going to be spokeswoman then he has to do it himself because it's a person of trust he has to choose for himself. No one's going to impose on him. Can one day remember that a man in his office may be extremely important and important to him to be loyal to, or to say, a driver to be loyal to him, and he will also say that he should not be chosen by advertising, nor by public tender, but he will show whoever he wants with his finger. Will one day remember that, say, public procurement should not be carried out because he knows best who would do it, so what will be tarnished by public procurement, and he is responsible for it. So, under this motto, political responsibility is actually secretly carried out by one will and one dictatorship of the majority. Of course you'll probably vote this bill. Since I'm running out of time, there's something else I need to say. It says in the light of the law that this law will not require any funds in the budget. Someone said it looked like David Copperfield, but maybe not. Maybe these people will volunteer, so it won't take those four years to pay, so it won't cost any more. Or if they will still require salaries for their work, then it is clear and loud to say that the found people at the job are likely to get fired because they will be put on schedule, somewhere they will be deployed if there is room. If there is no room then they will be available, and after making available, as a technological surplus, they will go to the stock market, so it should be nicely clear and loudly said or it is not true that they will not need additional money in the state budget. And in the end to go to a regular procedure, then you would probably get one more quality, even for this one radical political idea to suspend the Institute of Public Competition, you would get a text that would be crafty and nomotechnically better made because you could appreciate a series of constructive remarks from the debate, and you wouldn't drag in any more indiscretions from those 12-month changes that were also made by an emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5669	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect quote and three replicas. Mrs. Melita Mulic reported on the correcting of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5670	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. The correction of the incorrect allegations by the distinguished representative Lovrin referred to the disabling of a collective contract for civil servants and tenants, because today we are discussing amendments to the Law on civil servants, not a collective contract. And one more thing about depolitisation, that is, the appointment of directors before these changes through public tenders. If they had been conducted in accordance with public tenders and the prescribed criteria, then it would not have happened that the main secretaries, your coalition partners without working day, were appointed directors of individual ministries, and that the progress of the best civil service officers would also not have been made if individual staff with a mid-level expert escort were directors of individual customs offices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5671	Thank you very much. Replica, Ms. Representative, Miss twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5672	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's a replica for my colleague, Lovrin. My colleagues Lovrin agree with your presentation and they agree here in Croatia since she came to the power of the kukuriku to truly consciously and indeed deliberately avoid any possible depoliticisation and any possible professional qualification. And fellow MPs, you said earlier, but that goes to yours when you say it's named as a former secretary of state without a day's work. You see the greatest humiliation experienced by state officials at the Ministry of Science when your former representative, and now the deputy minister called them sacred cows. My colleague Lovrin, if that's even possible, she called them holy cows that make her very nervous. So one humiliation and haughtiness has never been known since Croatia exists, it is not. Why did she call them? Because she doesn't even know what she's talking about, who she's talking about. She doesn't know because she's never worked in her life. So what? In no competition could such a person pass because she would not have a year of work, nor would she pass a state-run professional exam, nor could she satisfy any other condition. And the public tender, here's my colleague, Lovrin, you'll agree, has his terms. So all of this before, and the discretionary right is then the person who chooses to satisfy all the meanings of the conditions of a public tender to choose the person who will do the job. It's a shame to say that Vice President Leco says we don't even need a union. So you'll end the union. We don't have to. We've got the Court of Justice. It's embarrassing! It is a shame that no one gets away from the ruling ones at all, dares stand up for the defense of hardworking people who work in the ministries, who work as civil servants. Who are these people coming? Friends, godfathers? Who are they? What do they do? Never mind, name them. But believe me, you won't be able to work much longer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5673	Replication response, Madam Representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5674	Thank you very much. Well, here's my colleague, twilight. I think Mrs. Lugaric realized it was inappropriate. It may be quite difficult for her to be one young person, there is not a day of work anywhere except as a representative in the Croatian Parliament, so it still takes some time for her to get used to the job in the state administration. She probably realized that, as deputy minister, you can't fool around on a facebook the way young people do, you have to understand that she is 24 hours high in the Croatian government and that she has to be properly expressed. Of course it is unacceptable to offend all civil servants in one ministry and, of course, it is available to her, but it is not easy. She was probably also found because anyone who hasn't tried high duties at the ministry probably doesn't even assume how complex, difficult and demanding a person all day. And then she was like, "Well, in the people's world, it was a little tight, so she blew on her facebook." And in fact, there are instruments provided for by the Civil Service Act where it needs to determine who does not do his job and apply certain restrictive measures. But in order for you to make it clear to someone that he is not doing his job, you have to give him clear tasks, you have to determine that he is not doing it, and that requires a certain effort. Of course, it's easier to sit on a facebook and get a little funky and not even thinking about it because it's a young person I believe she didn't mean anything by it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5675	Thank you. The replica on the presentation of Ms. Lovrin also has Mr. Representative Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5676	Thank you very much. Well, here's a esteemed colleague I can't really listen to your criticism at the expense of an emergency procedure anymore. Namely, in the fifth term of the Croatian Assembly of 568 laws, 434 were passed in an emergency procedure. In the sixth assembly of the Croatian Parliament of 815 laws, 706 were brought into emergency proceedings. Of which, at the first 4 sessions of the sixth convocation, the 3 laws were passed in a regular procedure. And you know why only three? Because it takes time for the government, or party, to adopt certain laws that will help them lead the country in the way citizens have entrusted them with it. However, in the sixth session, you retained power and did not find it appropriate in the first sessions to refer the laws to the regular procedure. But I will agree with you, and the Honorable Mr. President has agreed and said that it is really necessary for the laws to be discussed regularly, to be discussed in a regular procedure. And my second replica concerns respected colleagues on the issue of political responsibility and depoliticalism. Indeed, in this law it is proposed that certain persons in certain responsibilities be employed without competition by, I will be free to say to the discretionary right of the minister. However, we specifically determine these persons, define by law, limit, we tell the public who will be persons who will be hired without a public tender, who will be persons who will be employed by a discretionary decision of the minister and those persons with the minister are leaving. And we're not going to leave someone 60,000 people who are employed, really through a public tender, but by insulting the principle of that competition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5677	Thank you. Did you pick up the plate? Yes, it is. Here you are, Mrs. Lovrin, the reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5678	Thank you very much. Well, at least you guys as a lawyer who's been working as a lawyer so far, and you know what law enforcement means and how difficult it is to apply a law that's bad, no-technically ill-written, and whose provision is not clear and unequivocal. But as for the urgency of the procedure, I suppose you know that in the previous meeting of this Assembly, Croatia has aligned its legislation with European legislation, so that the negotiation process has ended, that it has signed an accession contract and I refer you to Article 161. A Rules of Procedure, which says "in an urgent procedure, laws are passed that comply with EU rules". You know how many of these laws were 550 and some of the laws were in line with the EU acquis. And I repeat Article 159. The Rules of Procedure which speak of urgency say extremely when the defence interests so require, other justifiably important state reasons or when it is necessary to prevent or eliminate major disturbances in the economy. I repeat, if a disturbance in the economy will prevent whether the first vice president or minister will appoint his spokeswoman or advisers without a public tender, I don't think you find that reason either. And the Institute of Public Competition ensures transparency, however you talk about their abuses, but then it means that it cannot then be accepted by a person who does not meet certain qualifications, who does not bring about confirmation that criminal proceedings are not conducted against it, that it is not punished, etc., because every other participant in the competition has the right to object and that is public control. With such a choice, no one will know who was admitted, that he met the conditions and whether any of these conditions should be met at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5679	Thank you. The replica plate was raised by Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5680	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues, Lovrin, you mentioned article 159, and in fact the need for an emergency procedure to discuss this legislative proposal, urgency. In addition to your debate, it is said that we have won on the benches of the amendment of the Government, that the text of the fresh law which has not yet been discussed has reached the amendment of the Government, which suggests that neither the Croatian Parliament, so the office of the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, so that they can also choose their speakers and presidents of the office without a public competition. Here's what we wrote two days ago, maybe when the 15th of March is now the government itself is correcting it, so much for the urgency of this process, and for the debate that has been conducted, the broad debate and the union. In fact, this isn't about any depolitisation, as it wasn't about depolitizing public service and officials in your day, it's about decreation and Pharaohization. When I say "determination" that means that by a decree by discretionary law of the minister, a superior shall be placed by civil servants wherever they wish even local and regional self-government. This when I say Pharaohization, then they say they'll come with the minister and go with the minister. As in Pharaoh’s day, all are buried in the pyramid when Pharaoh dies, or thinks he will be ministers for life and will be tied to the ministers for life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5681	If he becomes a former minister then he won't be tied to him for life. I'm sorry, there are no more reported replicas, but we have a reply to the replica of the distinguished representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5682	So a colleague of the Pharaohization and going to the pyramids, let's be lucky if he goes to the final proposal to amend and supplement the law. I said no, God can come to us in two weeks so the pyramids go with them both drivers and secretaries and I don't know who should be loyal. But this is a bit of a joke, but I really hope this is the last one, because this is how all the dictatorships start. I'm the smartest, I know best what I need, but it forgets that this is nobody's company and the first vice president when he chooses his secretary as he wills, but when he pays her public money and taxpayers' money and spends our money, then it must have some control in public anyway. As for the urgency of the procedure, it is no one who can convince me that the urgency of the procedure is justified here, but something else I said was a number of constructive proposals to fix the text of this Law, and therefore it would be better if he had gone into two readings, so I warned about the amendment of Article 151 where some coefficients are not expressed in unequivocally by the name of the workplace and the coefficient rather than being put into some item of the other one, so it's going to be lurking somewhere that an adviser in the Prime Minister's office will be paid, I mean completely unnecessary, it may also indicate some suspicion that something would be hidden, and if it were nice in the table it would be clear and even a number of such things, and the repair of what was not well made in the urgent changes from December last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5683	Thank you. In an individual debate, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic remains in line.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5684	Thank you very much. Let me just continue to base a sure one response on Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic's replica, I'm sorry she's not here, she said we won't repeat the mistake of 2000 when we found ourselves at the local and regional levels of people we couldn't manage. Everything is said by that, nothing else needs to be added to this bill. It slipped through so angryly in response to my replica, but it was all said. You've angry him with our young people who are apolitical, who are valuable learners, who work hard, and who are worth finishing their colleges. They used to go to competitions when HDZ was in power, clearly they were cheap attempts. I have a acquaintance who's written 312 applications so far, but since he wasn't in the former furniture, he couldn't possibly get a job. I'll tell you a highly educated man, he's 27 years old. You've eaten him again to our smart young people, because now, instead of the contest, he's going to be decided directly by the minister. Those who are depoliticized, and most of them are such, look at how many people there are members of the party, either this left-hand or this government, now this side is up. So look at how many people are in the employment offices. Obviously, there is no way other than these as mentioned above, no school is involved, no expert state exam, but with the close cooperation of the minister without the previous public tender. So, the public tenders were farces, we all know that, it's true they were farces. But instead of fighting for these public procurements not to be a farce, this Law is now being introduced which sets out and deploys civil servants, decrees, as in 45, you are going to work in..., in Ivangrad or Kolasin. From Zagreb, Professor Poljak was moved, as soon as he graduated from college, by decree he was transferred to Kolasin to work in Montenegro. The time has now come again for Kolashin, Ivangrad, etc. when the government officials and furniture are deployed by decree. In addition, it is said that the application of this law will not require additional funding. And we adopted the budget a month and a half ago, and that budget wasn't included in the application of this emergency law, because they say it's urgent. It was written March 15th. And now that we don't even know what number of civil servants will be set up or employed by the Pharaoh. You come with Pharaoh, you go with Pharaoh. I'm almost Minister, and now you're gonna be there for me while I'm here. And what happens to them later? What's their future after all? Neither are they to blame for being brought there. So clearly, a little by little over time will be arrested indefinitely, and as Mr. Stazic says, we will increase the number of employees employed in state services, and all of this will be paid by our citizens via a 25% VAT. And so actually this mentioned facebook right so one day there was a question, says a rotten grandmother plan to pass her facebook day. How we're going to get through unemployment and how the citizens are going to give us an answer. Citizens to give an answer. Well, the citizens gave an answer in the election. Gentlemen, go ahead and brainstorm. It's not just a facebook game you can think of. Now, says Mr. Vice-President of the Government the other day, pardon the first Deputy Prime Minister, let's not forget first because it's as important as a Sanader doctor to say. If you forget, Dr. Sanader, it's a disaster. So the first Deputy Prime Minister says he's a team coach and he wants players to play those players he wants. So let him bring the messiah. Maybe you could put on a different accent, but I'm afraid that wouldn't save us from this last word I said. This is the last name of a football player. But unfortunately in Dinam, or he imagined that Mamic might be, I don't know, but the choice of players is what he is. And now that you have a choice of 800 employees at the Ministry of Agriculture, so 100 in regional development, 200 in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I don't know exactly how many there are. Maybe Plenkovic knows better. Why is there not one of those players who trusts the minister? Is that possible? Or who doesn't know how to do his job, is that possible? Oh, yeah, that's great. And there's footage there that you hired between 2000 and 2004 where are they now? They're there, too. No, you'll hire new ones. So doesn't one of the 800 people at the Ministry of Agriculture have the ability to be a spokesman, and he doesn't even know what a tail or what a stern is. Can't anyone be the head of the office have no qualifications and no such qualities and qualities. So is it possible that that's how you think about people who work there? Well, I wouldn't work if I were the Minister of Agriculture to tell people I don't trust you, so I'll bring my two, three new men. What about you 800? So fire them when you don't trust them. What do you need them for? Well, that message to these people is disastrous, as is Deputy Minister Jovanovic's message, so she said what she said, as Mrs. Sumrak said when I agree with her a little while, yes, but this time she did. So these ministry employees are incompetent, lazy, they don't know their jobs. Such is the message of the Prime Minister and the first Deputy Prime Minister to these people. There's no one to play with, no players. And it's really too expensive to bring the messiah. And that will cost Croatian taxpayers, that good plan is 25. Maybe that's what someone on the facebook told the first vice-president of the government to hire 100, 200 people in this way. Here's a suggestion he might have fallen on a facebook and listened to. And finally, the decision to relocate civil servants. The decision to relocate civil servants under this law cannot be affected by the union, it has no right. Any dispute over this matter is being settled by the Administrative Court. And what's the funniest thing about an emergency procedure like exorcism? Well, it may be more than the expropriation that is very necessary to invest in the Republic of Croatia institutions, the Institute of Exclusion, is there anything to build that needs to be taken out. Unfortunately, this seems even more urgent, this will be handled by the Administrative Court very quickly. And that's what it says here, unfortunately. So what I started with and that same system was a public tender, no. The goal is what my dear colleague Ingrid said when we didn't clean up in 2000, now we're going to clean up. And that's it, nothing else. With a clear 100, 200 new people who will require an increase in money in state or redistribution or I don't know how to rebalance the budget. Well, people can't work for nothing, they can't be volunteers there because they love ministers and because they're tightly tied to ministers or because they're party members, so they're enthusiasts, pardon parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5685	Thank you. We have three replicas. First, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5686	Dear counterpart Grubisic, you have well noticed that the final draft law on amendments to the Law on civil servants or the amendment of the Government to their proposal has arrived on our benches, and I would say a lot of seriousness in the employment of my party listeners. Among other things, a little of that pre-election time is to be reminded where it is just said that after the elections it will be saved on all sides, that public administrations will be rationalised, that Croatian honey and milk will flow. And we get one bill of law, too bad these kids went up from the gallery. I wanted to ask them publicly if they might know, and I believe they would know better than this government to solve problems in Croatia and probably everyone is on the facebook. Here's my proposal to the government since it doesn't say here in this law how many new civil servants it will be to take these 350 thousand unemployed from the Employment Service, not to give them 10 or 15 or 20 thousand kunas of wages, but to give them the average salary that is now in the state administration and trust that one big problem will be solved. On the other hand, the members of the government and the Prime Minister were elected by the citizens, or confirmed by the Croatian Parliament, and I don't see much of a need right now, or it's just proof of their own incompetence, that they are bringing more "skilled party officials" into the government to help them lead both the ministries and the government. Indeed incomprehensible, but understandable, since this saves budget money and thus reduces the number of unemployed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5687	Replicate response, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5688	Col. Vinković, let's tell me how many laws we have so far, and this is the 3rd session of the Croatian Parliament, they discussed in the regular procedure, and how much in the emergency room. Or someone might know here in the Assembly. So we're just pushing into an emergency procedure. Here is the government itself, by its own amendment to its own law, saying that in some ways it could have been wrong. So it wasn't... There was no consultation, there was nothing. [[You don't understand.]] Secondly, I am convinced Mr. Vinkovic that there is an SDP fugitive in each ministry, and among these defects there will certainly be those who would like to be chiefs of cabinets or spokesmen of any of the Kukuriku coalition ministers and will be very happy to change the uniform and the booklet, blue for the red.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5689	Thank you. Replication to the presentation of Mr Grubisic and Mrs Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5690	Thank you very much. My colleague Grubisic pushed me to the line. I must say, when you have spoken and asked the question, is it really between 8500 civil servants, in a narrow sense, so who are working in the ministries today's ministers can't really find anyone capable and ultimately loyal to implementing politically-drawn ideas? We heard from this side of the cry "no, no," it was like "spread it, crucify it" nowhere. And I'd like to say that the strangeness of labeling people is strange. Mr. Rados argues, says no one has ever accepted the criteria of ability in the state service so far, meeting a certain professional arrangement, etc. No one, watch out for any of the 8500 people. It is forgotten that there are a number of people in the ministries, particularly some, of the type of foreign affairs, etc., of the judiciary, who came and when SDP was in power and of the HNS, there are persons who are other political orientations and have also come from the basis of their expertise in these ministries. Mrs. Anticevic, I'm counting it now because these are all labels on the other side, Mrs. Anticevic says that... The lazy civil servants, when the pay started to be shared in the resolved cases, then they began to hijack the items from the closet. [[You don't understand.]] So what kind of picture does that give about civil servants? So the civil servants don't take the items out of the closet, I guess the item comes into the office, so the head of the body schedules the items into work and assigns certain reliefs to civil servants. So an ugly picture. Another lady from the ruling option says all those lazy cows are in the ministry. I mean, that's really inadmissible. Think about talking about 8500 people with human dignity and dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5691	Wait a minute, you will receive a reply to the replica, Mr. Representative Grubisic. Just a moment, if possible, of course. It requires the Rules of Procedure that when you have a replica to have a replica of the one to whom the replica refers, so... Yeah, yeah, yeah, but then you mention three MPs who can't react to you, so that's not very democratic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go, Mr. Representative Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5692	Mr. President, I mentioned that insult, I wouldn't want to decontaminate you, but Mrs. Lovrin is right this time. Here, don't be offended. But to do the replica. Mrs. Lovrin, it is statistically impossible or incredible that there are no IQs among the 8500 state officials per ministry, the IQs, the ability, the workability, and to say the brains that can be in these hundreds of places. Well, if it's 50, let's just say it's just nobody. Well, that's an extremely direct insult to those people. And about the fact that there are frames that have agreed to say so medically, they've been opacified through the years and your eight years and over four years of SDP, so there's as many of them as you want. So that's really amazing. Unfortunately, there's no one from the HDSSB, so here. ... He's not in the executive, he's not in the ministries. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5693	Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Replication of Mr. Bora Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5694	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, colleague Grubisic, I'm actually going to replicate two things that you're in your presentation. Of course, like the rest of you, you have taken special note of the urgency of the procedure in the adoption of this law and of the way you imagine after two months, no law has been in the ordinary process. And I will repeat what my colleague, Peja Grbin, said in one replica to my colleague Lovrin, and remind me that in the last two convocations, so the 6th and 5th resuscitation of a total of 815 laws was passed, of which only 109 regularly. And when we talk about those with the E mark who all went through an emergency procedure, there were 298 of them. So let's compare it. Or in advance, the 5th Assembly, a total of 568 laws, of which in the emergency procedure of 434 laws, of which 160 European laws. My colleagues and colleagues, you can count on it, so it's about 25%, and 25% of the law hasn't been passed in the regular procedure. When it comes to the Law on Civil Servants, then I remind myself that only in the last term has several times been amended and complemented by the Law on Civil Servants, all by emergency procedure. And the final law on civil servants, therefore, was passed as a law entirely, imagine, in two readings with the first reading being in the 3rd month, the second reading was at the 4th month, and in the 5th month last year was already an amendment to the Law on civil servants. Please let us look at it that way. And secondly, let us remember some of the things that have been done in this House, though I am also advocating that as many laws go according to the regular procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5695	How you see time now, and when you talk, you don't. Here you go. Yes, please finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5696	I just wanted to end up with something else. About what happened in the ministries in the previous government, with people who had as much smell as they smelled of another option, you have examples among the people who work in this Croatian Parliament today when they were scolded. Among other things, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs when they are placed at their disposal forever, as they would say, and when transferred elsewhere, they were not recognised professional cooking and wages. So much for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5697	I'll answer you now. If you hadn't noticed, and you could have noticed that no one, at least I, while I was holding the presidency, had taken away my word and had run out of time until he had said one or two sentences if it was necessary to complete the thought. So please, let's be even in it. That you can confirm, here, this will confirm your colleagues so don't be. So let's be equal in a way that when one does it then another can do it. Well, that's all I wanted to ask you to do, so don't, don't complain. Yes, when you violated the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Representative Grubisic, please. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5698	Thank you very much. Let's cut short, speed up, actually. I'll start from the end of the exhibition, or Mrs. Sobol's replica. Mrs. Sobol, you are most likely aware that your party president and now the Prime Minister has been employed by the Foreign Ministry and at the time of Mr. Sanader. Well, I don't know how he didn't get hurt in that HDZ cleanup, and I'm not defending HDZ, I'm never his lawyer. Go on, just a little bit. Mrs. Sobol, why are you asking me how many laws have been passed? Neither was I ruling, nor was your opposition that was very numerous at the time, and it could have been even ruling that she wanted to, but you didn't know how to do it. Therefore, I did not resort to the urgency of the procedure, but to this, I was saying that the Prime Minister himself was testifying to his own proposal. So he's not thought enough! Well, it wasn't thought enough, that's why the government's making an amendment. Right? So, the urgency of the procedure, and you have a letter from the union of state and local officials saying the government gave them 24 hours to show. Well, now I don't know. You judge for yourself the value and urgency of the procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5699	Now, before I give my word to Mr. Representative Andrej Plenkovic. Just to let you know, we have six more discussions that have been reported in an individual debate. We'll have a break at half two, we'll continue the debate, so I think we'll end up shortly after the break unless there's, of course, too many replicas. But I don't plead not to be. Here you are, Mr. Representative Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5700	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Piculjan, deputy minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on civil servants has raised obvious and large controversy and put certain principles on the agenda. I think first of all, we need to show respect for civil servants in our debate. Among Croatian politicians, there are many people among parliamentary deputies who began as state officials. They began working in the ministry with the aim of contributing to public good, to contributing to the protection of public interest. American experts define governance in the state administration through what they call a strategic triangle. The strategic triangle is to first define what is public good, which is a public interest in some area. The second is that the public interest gets political support and legitimacy. It is given by the Croatian Parliament in the Republic of Croatia. And the third is that it has the proper operational capacity to carry out the action, the law, the measure. In this strategic triangle, today's topic refers to operational capacity, concerns the operational capacity of the ministries, refers to the operational capacity of a particular ruling coalition to implement what it stands for. However, the questions raised by this Law go into the sphere of what we call trust. This is the year 2012. Croatia came by consensus at the door of membership in the European Union. In this process, one of the issues that had been addressed was state administration reform in the broadest sense. One of the issues in this process was the professionalisation of the state administration, its depoliticalisation can also be said. There's a question of where the line is. That is why today's law must be seen in a package with the Law on Obligations and Rights of State officials, which was passed in this House several months ago. If you remember then the new government has created a very clear framework for the politically appointed officials. Today, ministers, deputy ministers, assistants, secretary general of the ministry are politically appointed. With this bill in mind the cabinet's jobs, the minister's political appointment opens up a space for the people in the cabinet. What is the result in practice as someone who works in the state service very well can see it plastically. That means about the entire college of one ministry has been politically appointed to you. You under these legal provisions when we look at them in the package you have a whole college of people who theoretically were up until two days before the election could all be out of state administration to one. And then they have the task of managing that unit of state administration, the ministry or any other agency. The question arises very simply whether it is possible. Maybe it's possible. Maybe the best people were brought outside the state administration system from the best companies, from the best I'd say to the cathedrals, colleges of institutes that have fantastic skills. But who guarantees it? No one guarantees it. For years, the development of the state administration, and there was a colleague named Piculjan, who worked for some criteria. It's not a public exam invented by accident. I laid him down 15 years ago, he was supposed to prepare for him, and many other people suggested him. These are filters that push people who have qualifications, who have vocational education, who know the job, who are professional and who are loyal to a particular direction defined by the government. I think the question that has been raised here between the lines and this has been very well seen in the debate is the question of trust whether any political option that gets power is whether it trusts civil servants. As a society, I think we must come to trust them. So these people are not against Croatia, these people are not here to work against the direction some government has given. However, they are there to help with their knowledge and skills with the goals the government has politically set. This is the wording of Article 74b to me. I do, however, open up an unlimited possibility for operatives, say the secretary of the cabinet of ministers, so it must be a person who knows to detail how the ministry works, how his budget works, how the proposals that go to the government work, how the documents are coordinated with other resolutions. It's gotta be someone from the system. Trust is important, and in other countries when the government changes, people are employed in the cabinets of ministers, but then they deal with, say, relations with Parliament, they link the political responsibility of the one elected to some duty with the one where his political base is. They take one for a counselor to take care of his political base if he has one. These are increasingly sophisticated approaches. So theoretically, these laws now seem to repeat everyone, literally everyone running a ministry, can be politically appointed. And it's not even a public competition. Not to mention the inconsistency of the need, or the need for competition for ministries and certain duties in the Croatian Parliament. I would also refer to the key question of the message to the civil servant. So I'm going to repeat a little bit of the coefficients that currently exist and that existed before. Today, the Deputy Minister has a coefficient of 5.70 – here is a colleague of the Deputy Minister of Administration. He used to be a secretary of state and had a coefficient of 5.27. So the deputies in relation to state secretaries have a higher coefficient. The representative in the Croatian Parliament has a coefficient of 5.27. Newly formed ministerial assistants have a coefficient of 5.27, directors who had previously been in those places had a coefficient of 4.26. Today, both deputies and ministerial assistants have been politically appointed. The highest ranking of a state official who is currently head of the sector has a 3.10. So today, the message to everyone who is employed in the state service is education, do postgraduate studies, PhDs, pass all the exams, you, if you're not part of some political team until retirement, you'll never be able to be higher than the head of the sector, or coefficient 3.10. Is that a good message? I don't think so. I deeply believe it isn't. I think we need to build a system first of all trust, not yours and ours, there's good and less quality in each segment, and even in the state administration. There are people who know their jobs because they've given themselves to him. And we must appreciate them, we must respect them. That doesn't mean all the political places, all the furniture must be part of how figuratively it was told by some quasi football team. I don't think that's how it's supposed to be. I have full confidence in a lot of colleagues in all sectors regardless of which they are a political worldview or commitment and can constructively contribute to these general interests, which is the interest of work and the objective of the state administration. So we all need to think together whether these are good solutions. Are these solutions that will result in people who are controlled by all the ones we've talked about being satisfied? People have to have motivation. In the state administration if you don't have visibility, if you don't have good criteria for measuring your work, if you don't have the ability to advance your perspective is not very good. These are all the moves we need to take care of when we adopt a law like this, or when it is proposed. I would also like to say that there have already been certain signals in public by the European Commission which closely monitors the whole series of moves that have been taken over the past few months and where it is taken care to see whether there is any kind of depoliticalisation of the public administration, i.e. the state administration in this regard. So in this delicate phase of monitoring, surveillance, we need to take care of all these aspects. I hope that the promoters have thought very carefully about all these aspects and have thought very carefully about what message they send to those to whom this law applies most, and these are civil servants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5701	Thank you very much. So we have five replicas, three of which are from the HDZ Club, two from the SDP. Mrs. Representative, Ms. Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5702	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I congratulate my colleague Plenkovic! I only hope that the vice president of the Croatian Parliament did not prohibit the media from transferring this exposure to you because it would be very embarrassing. This is exactly what your presentation says about what she did and what it was about the government of Mrs. Jadranka Kosor who you were involved in, to do with public administration. Today we listen to, colleague Plenkovic, the opposite of something that the coalition of this 21 kukurik when it came to it absolutely did not speak of because if it had spoken of this way today we would not have discussed it at all because they would not have been in power. They prove today that everything that was wrong that they could do worse and worse. So they prove that they will absolutely move away equally when they are already returning to what was not good, so let's go back to 2000 when they, a colleague of Plenkovic, fired their mercy with their 10,000 people in the police and in the military. They simply fired them because they didn't like them, it wasn't their option, and here today in their election program they didn't say it, but they're doing it today and they're going to do even worse things. I hope the media didn't get a ban on recording your exposure to exactly what this Mosque of Mrs. Jadranka Kosor was up against, but unfortunately, it won the mysterious evil. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5703	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Representative Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5704	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'd say I agree with my colleague in everything except one little detail when he said what kind of message we're sending to the civil servants, so he said we're sending them a message school, doctorate, etc., but you won't be able to get more pay than 3.10. I don't agree with that because I think we're actually sending them this bill proposed by the ruling coalition to send them a message, don't go to school, there's no need for you to go to school because if you want to go to the state service, then you just need to come to a ruling coalition, or here in this case in the SDP that will provide you with a place in the state service without a public competition. It's a message, unfortunately, of a bill like this that really brings us back to a time of political resemblance. And that's a fact. Because what to say for an explanation that says that these people who work closely with the minister must be of his trust and therefore he will place them in these places without a public competition. Shouldn't the minister be communicating closely with all the employees in his ministry? This law opens up the possibility for all ministry employees to be exclusively employed without a public tender for political resemblance. The second thing, what is also extremely bad at this resolution of this Law that you may not have talked about too much, but I think it's important to mention and that's the possibility of sending civil servants to work in local self-government, that's something that's absolutely unacceptable. Of course, it's different jobs, of course, that those people who are civil servants that have been educated exactly the kind of jobs, that have passed filters, you said exactly, and the filter is a state expert exam. These are absolutely unacceptable things that lead to a complete mess in the state service, completely lead to a riot in the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the Ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5705	Thank you. Ms. Representative Melita Mulic's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5706	I thank you, Mr. President. A colleague of Plenkovic, the esteemed representative Plenkovic. I would appeal to all of us here to refrain from interpreting this Law and these amendments to the Law in such a way that the current ruling coalition creates a crisis of trust and makes a gap between those who are operationally carrying out their work, those who have received the trust of citizens and civil servants who should do their job professionally, that is to say, to show on one hand the defenders of dignity, the existence and quality of civil servants, and us who do not respect and appreciate the quality, so you have singled out certain positions within the system, the secretary of cabinet or the secretary general secretary of the ministry. The next secretary-general of the ministry should say is a person who is a government official, so a person who knows the system, a person who can prepare legal proposals, who needs to wait for legal proposals before going to the government and who is in charge of operational management of the ministry. The secretary of the cabinet, the secretary of the cabinet, is therefore the first person to the minister or minister who has actually come into the team to enable the operational implementation of what we have received confidence. You said something else about the evaluation of civil servants. Some colleagues used to use a football dictionary, there are great employees, but I'd be happy if Messi and Ronaldi themselves worked in the state system. One of the instruments that is the same and the evaluation of civil servants, please, there's the Deputy Minister of Administration. All of us who ran some kind of formation unit at the ministry, passed the evaluation of civil servants, 99% of them rated excellent. So, it was just a simple validation of such an instrument, so what kind of critical is it even being introduced. Secondly, not all of them have the right specific knowledge, such as speaking business, it is two basic places, so the secretaries of the cabinet and the speakers. Excuse me and thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5707	Thank you, not three minutes more than a few seconds. Here you go, sir, you'll get a chance at the next session because you'll see everything on the screen, that I promised you remember. And who answered and who's in line and how much he talks so there won't be any problems. Mr. Plenkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5708	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear colleague Mulic. Very short. My presentation was focused on that legal framework which is on the table and which opens up possibilities I mean very clearly argued, in no case at all, and in particular you will not hear from me that I will advocate the gap between civil servants and those who in the democratic elections received the mandate of the Croatian people to lead Croatia in the direction they promised. That is absolutely not true, I did not say it, nor insinuate it, I am just talking about that there are a whole series of quality people in the state service and I would not believe that among all these people who have been working for the Croatian state in the state administration for 20 years now, there are not enough people who could adequately carry out their tasks, but also speakers and secretaries of cabinets and advisers, although knowing the state service I am sure there are enough of them. If there is a need for some extra it can be done but what it says here is really open opportunity for cabinet jobs. And by systematization, they can be 3, 5, 10, 15 depending on the ministry. It does not say here if I have seen well in Article 74b neither the spokesman nor the secretary of the cabinet with a saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5709	Thank you. Mr. Representative Nenad Stazic, vice president, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5710	Dear colleague Plenkovic, with the most important part of your debate, one can fully agree because you have shown that you understand the problem this Law treats, so I am not surprised that you have not replicated, responded to the replicas of your colleagues from the Club who have shown their replicas that they do not understand it. First, however, there is one thing I would like to correct you in. This isn't about any repoliticization of the state administration for two reasons. First, you can't repolitize something that's politicized, like you can't get past something that's white or black or something that's black. It's just like that. And secondly, this is about a very small number of people, if we said that there are more than 8,000 people working in the government segment, in the cabinets of ministers, so all these others remain in the current regulations. I also agree with you that none of these people who are in the ministries today were brought here to work against Croatia. I couldn't agree more, but the only thing I can do against a minister. In one of the ministries is one of the people, I won't tell you either the ministry or the name or... or the minister that I don't gossip, she wrote a solution calling for the wrong article of the law. It's a trick to her boss or boss, you know what's going on with that solution, that's what's going on, and that's why it has to be trust. That is why it must be a chosen person of trust, because each time the minister will see whether the invitation to the article is correct or incorrect, so what else would not have arrived or worked must have confidence in that person. This is about a small number of people only to those in cabinets and not to the entire state administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5711	Thank you. You want to answer, you haven't answered, but you may not have gotten along. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5712	I'm sorry, Mr. President, if it wasn't a signal good enough. Mr. Stazic, I don't know about this alleged arsonist case, I don't know. If that's for sure, it's not the rule. So, I'm in favour of presupposing trust in civil servants that's the point of my exposure and the respect of those who got hired here with a desire to contribute to the work they believe in. Because people I suppose are satisfied when they have a certain and general and personal benefit from what they do, that's the main principle. We will see what the number of people will be, based on such legal provisions in practice, will eventually be according to some employment, systematicizations, some real numbers. I can't say it today. We can talk about it when we evaluate the effects of this bill before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5713	Thank you. Mr. Representative Đuro The Drinker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5714	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Your Honor, my colleague, there's a lot of things to be said. So you've opened up a lot of dilemmas here, but you've also pointed out which consequences and problems we're going to face after applying this law, so also from the aspect of the commitments that we've made here and finally the referendum and the conclusion of the accession agreement. But especially since it's sensitive from the aspect of relations in the ministries and the state administration. It seems to me, however, that although we avoid saying that a new set is coming and a new layer of privileged people and people of special trust and special trust in the ministry itself. So here come the superhumans, here comes someone who's superiors. And how all those who have held the pillars of the administration for years will feel, who eventually bled out at work finishing negotiations. And now comes someone without criteria, without of course and given the way they had to and what preconditions they had to meet to come to certain places of people who were so-called. the special trust, and the question is whether all those who work in the ministries deserve the minister's trust. And does that mean that he is actually a spokeswoman who must be a man of special trust more important than the head of an energy sector in a particular ministry. These are fundamental questions and questions in which the whole environment is actually going to be now where these people are going to work how it's going to work, after all, that I'm going to be the result of such work.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5715	Thank you very much. Here's another suggestion for Mr. Representative Miroslav Tudjman to speak and then, of course, if there's any more reactions, we'll end up having a break. Here you go, Professor Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5716	Your Honor, Mr. President, MPs and deputies, Mr. Deputy Minister. Obviously, the problem with the adoption of this law by an urgent procedure amongst other things is that there is no analysis and factography of the basics of these facts that we are discussing today, or that we are arguing about by arguing each and every one of our views that this is absolutely true, that this is whited-out knowledge. This concerns, on the one hand, the number of civil servants and subsistence officers in the state administration to the efficiency of the state administration. So I would at first ask the deputy minister or the ministry to inform us exactly about the number of employees in the state administration, ministries and the public sector for two reasons, so that we can determine on the one hand the actual situation so that we do not compete here, and on the other hand, that after a year, two or four we can see how much that promise that this number will not grow or that it will grow minimally. As far as this law is concerned, perhaps one example that has not yet been mentioned, and I will quote, I will remind you a dozen years ago in the media that the American president then appointed an ambassador seems to me to be for Israel but that he has not received a clearance or has not received a certificate for working for classified data and not because he has made a huge mistake but simply because he carried those data around the world on his laptop. What could happen in this pattern? I'm talking about America so we have a presidential system so the president can decide everything, and he's not happy with such a finding of the department. If it could happen with us, and it can't because they're not allowed to say holy cows, some exceptions to passing these checks, the competent ones would simply replace those who have denied the certificates. It means this example only of this law. It is obvious that in ministries or cabinets, ministers must also work as well as those who need to have a certificate for working with classified data. This law or the proposed law either exempts it or conflicts with the previous law. This law is also not going to talk too much about it, but as already said in conflict with other laws. He's in conflict with the Law on furniture in local administration and self-government. It is contrary to the announcement that the number of employees in the state administration will not increase. It's said here that it's going to be hundreds of people, which is again without an analysis without argument being said. I'm talking again, and I need to use this method according to some announcements... of the formation of some ministers predicting 15 advisers in their ministry or cabinet. So this number of 100 people is simply unreal. Unlike perhaps from so far, I agree with this one intensification that a leading team must have one number of its people who are changing, or who are coming and who are supposed to be on time. But it has to be taxed on what places they are and what number and under what conditions. But what do we have? Obviously another process and what Mr. Plenkovic said here, this is about implementing the principle of trust. Mr Milanovic seems to me at the first session of the Parliament, ie here when he was not presenting a law he said listen, what we do is not against the constitution, it is not against the law but it is our worldview. A few days after that we heard, we're not interested in commissions, we need people of our trust. This is really about trust, loyalty, and when it comes to government and local administration, loyalty to the Croatian state or loyalty to the party or to the parties in power. That's the key to the problem. With this thesis, we have a mantra, we listen to the Parliament's session here every day that there is a need to change political responsibility and enough hiding behind public competitions. No one here has made it more clear to us than their own personal experiences, how successful these public tenders have been, as far as they're not, whether they're functional, dysfunctional, etc. In view of the fact that it really wants to go in one direction to strengthen trust, strengthen the state administration and strengthen the position, people in the state administration would then be able to correct this public tender institute that it cannot be manipulated and, say, do what is considered not desirable or should not be. It happens exactly the opposite, what happens is that with what's less, it's mentioned, but it doesn't seem sufficiently stressed to me, this law allows the heads of the ministries, the heads of the state's administration to change all the state employees and residents in the local and regional administration at their own discretion. There is no reason, or no criterion for blocking it or stopping it. In other words, if we have a principle of similarity, political similarities, this is the legalisation of political similarities, and that is something that will cause very big turbulence, which will result in civil servants and tenants being similar regardless of what coalition or party in power is, and ultimately, such a position has the consequence of political corruption. So on the other hand, I think that this law simply opens these processes and that it will cause far greater turbulence in the state administration, its ineffectiveness. And on the other hand, what didn't happen here today is a matter of principle. If the minister and his team are responsible for the activities of the ministries and all officials, i.e. ministry officials, will the minister be responsible for any failure to do so. Will then, for each miswritten solution, the minister and his team bear political responsibility. I think that this model is not acceptable, it is not good but that the responsibility of the Minister and the leadership of individual ministries is in something else, and that the responsibility of civil servants at those levels they work on is fully responsible for their activities. In that sense, I don't think this law should be accepted in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5717	Thank you. We have three replicas. Replication was first reported by a representative, Mr. Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5718	The President of the Parliament is gone, and I wanted to ask him by replicating a respected colleague, and I'm going to ask you. You need a spokeswoman, you know how to talk, you know how to perform in front of the media.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5719	Excuse me, can I answer or wait for you to finish? I'll wait for you to finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5720	Wait till I'm done. I'm sorry that my colleagues Šprem left, you'll take away my word for this red one, and now the time is coming. But here you see, some of them were handing out guarantee cards in certain elections, we remember how those guarantee cards ended, some of them made false promises like this. So here's these promoters here in front of the government who were supposed to defend this law probably didn't even know that the amendment had arrived, or they weren't involved in making such an amendment, nor could they expect the government itself to give it. Because not only does this apply to the ministries, it also applies to the Office of the Prime Minister, the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, thank God we have five, so we have one five employees. It will probably be a new job here without a public competition and in the Croatian Parliament. And until one of those DEAKI workers and KIOs have achieved their rights, these strike, etc. But the fact is that the Ministry of Administration and the Justice ordered an entry into the register and so far it is a total of, so in the public sector in the 7th month 2011, FINA is doing it for about 10 million kuna, it should be checked a little bit, that a total of 231079 employees are registered in the public sector, and there are still some 7,000 people left to enroll, and it will take another year and 9 months. That's how the new Minister Bauk assessed it. If this were Austro-Hungarian, she'd have fallen immediately upon...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5721	Time, buddy!
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5722	As long as it was before these reds, you were sitting there, now that I'm up to it. But here, I'll finish. So the census has been working for two weeks, and the entire population of Croatia is listed, although we cannot get that data. Here is this famous enrolment for two years, with the fact that without that enrolment we should openly tell Croatian citizens, we do not know how many people we will hire. It's not going to be 100, it can be 3000, it can be 5,000, and we don't know what that salary will be, after all, and what it will do except get a well-paid place because they were extremely party listeners. As far as sacred cows are concerned...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5723	You've finished your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5724	Here's a sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5725	No more, you're done, you've got a double minute. I'm sorry. The next replica was presented by Mrs. Djurdzica Sumrak's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5726	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, there's no Professor. Tudjman, however, I would only look back in the replica at his last presentation, which is that she finally came to see the legalisation of political similarities. So we've been inside a few months since the Kukuriku Coalition got two legalizations here in reality. One is the legalization of drugs, and the other is now the legalization of political similarities. And it seems to me that we will continue to go to other such legalizations. And as for public competitions, I have to repeat since I do work but not in the state administration, but in local, that the public procurements have a repeat, so they are published with things that you need to fulfill, which is a necessary expertise, then a work experience, a lay or a passed state exam. Then you must have the same conviction of impunity. One who chooses 150, 200 people who report to the same terms, means he has discretionary rights, and all others have the right to sue because they are dissatisfied with the Administrative Court. Right, Mr. Deputy Minister? Well, then in that situation, we've given people the right to pretend, to sue and see the Administrative Court. And it wasn't once that the Administrative Court removed someone from the workplace and set up someone who really met the conditions of the competition. And now finally here's the legalized political moral resemblance and now whatever it is you want. And I, as a representative, will allow a second to ask the same question to this government and ministers to answer me how much since the Kukuriku coalition came to power by political likeness, means political employment at which jobs and which coefficients are not only, means in ministries but also in public enterprises that we in Parliament...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5727	You're done. You'll have a chance to ask ministers the question at the current morning. And we have still a replica, Mr. Boro Grubisic's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5728	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Tudjman, where is he? He's gone. So, colleague Tudjman was talking about rationalising the state administration, which was one of the main allegations in plan 21. This is what the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are particularly sensitive and the rationalisation of the state administration are thinking exactly as they voted. However, this is not really the rationalisation of the state administration of this legal proposal. And then when you talk about the fact that there's no personnel in the last eight years, that they're extinct to say so, it's not true. Since 2000. By 2004, there are certain personnel who are employed by the SDP at the time by the ministries as officials, and you are, in fact, spending, you Kukuriku coalition gentlemen conduct the deracialization of the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5729	Thank you. We don't have a correction, we don't have a quote, we don't have a replica anymore. As the president in the opening statement, we will continue our work at 15.00 hours. Thank you. My colleagues and fellow MPs... Here you go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5731	Mr. President, on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, I'm looking for a 15-minute break due to the state of the DIOKI and the threat of the human lives of workers who strike hunger there. At the same time, I ask that you ensure the presence of Mr. Prime Minister, First Vice-President and Minister of Finance as the only person who can provide a quality response to the situation in DIOKI and a possible solution to the case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5732	All right, you asked for a break for the club. I just want to ask you a question. We are gathered here to supplement the agenda in order to allow a colleague from the HNS to become a representative. I'm just asking you to say it out loud, it'll take a few minutes, and then we'll give it a break for the club so we can work regularly. My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. Here you go, Mr. Representative. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Party Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5734	Thank you very much. Mr. President, thank you very much. I asked if you could ensure the presence of the Prime Minister, the first Deputy Prime Minister or the Minister of Finance, since I don't see anyone here, they were probably prevented by some of their other obligations, which is why we asked for a break. It's definitely about the threat of human life and I think that as representatives chosen by these same people, we can't go deaf to such a situation and we need to react anyway. What they're doing there, it's a desperate move, it's certainly no one has made out of obsessing and misunderstanding about such a thing certainly to me at least as a person, as a man it's incomprehensible, especially to call it pulsism. If populism is to live five months without pay, then that's probably it. We have, which is why I wanted the Prime Minister and the first Deputy Prime Minister or Minister of Finance to be present, because they could in some way bring together which are possibly possible solutions that can be made in this situation. Mr Jezic himself, who owns the company himself, admitted at the hearing that he was involved in crime and what he said bombically had five million euros in his account and Malta did not ask people where I would go with the money. Let the government be the one to intercede so that they can give these money to the workers they don't have, to their children who don't have a salary. I don't know if there's a solution like that, but I think that's a good idea, so let me know if you have any other solution. I can't believe that this is the kind of thing that the government shouldn't at least be manifested. Even though I can see that this reaction will be negative on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, I suggest that the session of the Parliament be suspended until this situation is resolved. It's about people's lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5735	Thank you, too. You, Mr. Novak, were on behalf of the Croatian Labour Party Representatives Club looking for a break for the club, you got a break, now you were showing yourself what you think should be done about the situation and problems in Dioki, and in particular you stressed that the lives of workers were at stake there. As far as I know from the public, four of them strike hunger. And we're concerned I think everyone here about it, but we also know that what the government is doing today is allowing certain conversations between the representatives of the creditors and others, so now that I've tried to get in touch with the prime minister, and I failed because he has one obligation in the Ban Court and in his seat, and I personally think that what you said here and that you didn't say that the government is on its own as far as it can work, and I will, of course, contact the Prime Minister today and I will introduce him to yours to say so in terms of observations and observations, about the position of the worker Dioki, what you're asking to end Parliament's work, I don't think it't need it because it's not the situation that we'll stop working now to solve this problem. This problem is being solved and we are not in charge of operationally solving it at least not us as parliamentary agents. That's my explanation I can give you right now. I suggest we keep working. So, we are discussing the item on the agenda of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Officials with the Final Proposal of the Law. We still have three registered representatives in an individual debate, so I ask Mr. Milorad Batinić, vice president of the Croatian Parliament, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5736	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The morning debate on the subject of the amendment law and the additions of the Law on civil servants, the debate was very dynamic, at moments very picturesque and there were a number of style figures given by individual and per club. I would just like to mention in short lines some words, some cited as mentioning David Copperfield's illusionism, the monarchy, often mentioned public tender in the context of transparency, depolitisation, dictatorship of the majority, young people have no chance, decrates and a number of others I would dare to say stylish figures in a political context. Over 85% of the debate I would dare say went the way beyond what these amendments and the additions of the law were meant to be said. Of course, political space is used, the possibility is used to speak in such a way about other things, completely legitimate, allowed. What can be read from this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on civil servants, very short, plastically, clearly unequivocally said by the honourable deputy president, Mr Stazic. And I would very much like to say in the most understandable way and what was meant to be done. If we withdraw a parallel namely, it is a choice as many colleagues have said before me, choosing close associates regardless of whether it is an executive authority, whether it is an economic objective is a policy of the specifically executive authority, that the administration, or state officials, which means that the public administration is a quality administration, optimal but above all to be effective. This is where I would like to deny the intention in terms of this context of these words, which were discussed about similarity primarily to political similarity, so I would like to start with some of my experiences with the government at local and regional level where as mayor, I have conducted a series of competitions for the key functions of the head of administrative suits at the county level. And of course I'm in favour of a public tender because it's currently one way to choose close associates. All of us, more or less, who are here, many of us have our own experiences of whether in the state ministries, at local or regional level, and I would like to hear the truth about what they think I can get to say in these public competitions. The choice finally again according to some test, whether this interview has been added yet, is the goal of each of us who is able to choose what is best offered on the market so I would dare to say. The debate was going and I initially said in another direction, there was an imputation of public competition, transparency. However, what could be read from the discussion of the vast majority of colleagues can be read from their discussions one dose of hypocrisy. Don't mind me if someone gets hit. However, the most talk about civil servants and tenants' rights was here, and these amendments of the law do not affect me at all, I would venture into bankruptcy rights. I will also share a dose of dissatisfaction with the whole law and my suggestion will go in the direction of course it takes time to be fully in those parts that do not work in practice to approach the amendments and additions of the law and to pass one more quality law than this existing one that is now in force, and I am convinced that this will follow very quickly because it is necessary. I accept these amendments and the amendments to the law, I will give them support because what Mr. Stazic said is very clear what is being achieved, it is transparent, we are not hiding behind anything or public competitions or I don't know what else is not. But also when there was talk of civil servants and tenants when I came to town for the first term they suggested that this one was from HDZ, this one's not a headmaster anywhere, you know that one should be replaced for these and those reasons because we're not the same political option. I didn't do it until today. Why? Because as mayor, I was interested in, as mayor, noting, the interest of having quality people who know their jobs and who are doing it very well today. The only thing was that one of the directors who was a master, had a state exam, had a lot of professional works in the building, etc. After six months, I left her. And I'll tell you why. For one very simple reason, he said he couldn't track the mayor's work, that he couldn't stand the pace and retired himself. And this headmaster who's working today is the only thing legal on the job. So they're talking about civil servants in a way that may not be appropriate and neither tang these amendments to the law, nor in any part of their rights. First of all, when the new Civil Service Act is to be discussed, I am convinced that it will be during this year, it will take care of a lot of things. As mayor, I have often been able to run programs, projects, of course from local and regional levels, and I have convinced myself that many people who have just met these conditions that many here swore were necessary and state-run exams and diplomas and masters and doctors of science, simply had no certain competences and skills to work on these jobs they work on. With this I do not mean to undermine the importance that it is necessary, I agree largely with the discussion of my colleague Plenkovic, who was a discussion very affirmative, positive and I wish I had heard more of these discussions. However, in particular in these amendments and the additions to the law nothing important is changed only in a very clear way is given to know what has so far been an irrefutable practice both in the last 4 and in the 8 and until 2000, and believe me, I am not the only one here who felt it on his own back. Don't think of this as rematchism, it's just showing the situation the way it is. As far as I'm concerned, I'm going to end up with those figurative expressions that I started, and now it's continued, back a few minutes before that discussion, about the illusionists. The illusion has been in the past just as far as I'm concerned by civil servants and deputies and too much, and I think with this law that part will certainly stop. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5737	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, you only have three replicas. He is the first of Mr. Representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5738	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, I wanted the replica not to be a correction of the incorrect allegations so that you could answer. You're the vice president of this House, and first of all, we can't talk about state administration employees, people who, on the basis of public tenders, and you yourself said that as mayor of public procurement, you got your jobs. We are here talking about a large number of honest, hardworking and responsible people who I think have done their job in the state administration fairly and knowingly. The vast majority of the head of the Office of State Administration after the election has been changed. We're politicians and we're in politics. We came to the Croatian Parliament on the basis of elections in parliamentary elections. You can't tell us, you've had such a peaceful story, but they do a full insult, that we are hypocritical. We say that people who have been educated, educated and have given their expertise their knowledge, their lives, their name and last name in the contest, have been given the job of honorable people. Here I'm talking about the fates of them and their families. Well, you can't say that an arbitrary government decision can be that without having to do with politics. Let me list one HDZ head of state administration who held his position and what are the flat-rate estimates that you can say specifically that this is the best legal solution and that this law will solve all the problems of state administration employees. I think, Mr. Vice President, you're completely wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5739	Thank you. Replicate response, Mr. Vice President Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5740	Thank you. First of all, thank you fellow Salapic, but I didn't need the opportunity to replicate. In my speech, I have already responded to what you have just mentioned and I am not afraid to say again that there have been hypocrisy in the discussions of some colleagues. That's not what I'm saying right now, that's what I've been saying for the past eight years, and I'm going to say every time it's spoken in the context of the past. I just made it clear and loud that I based my debate on what fellow MPs said in their debates in a way that the least of the speeches were precisely about these changes spoken of. One amendment has come to all of this. If we're not satisfied with someone's proposal, we can make amendments. The only amendment was sent by the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5741	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davorin Mlakar, replica too. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5742	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Vice President, I have volunteered for the replica because you have brought your personal experience to work in local self-government if I have understood correctly and you have pointed out that you are in favour of carrying out public competitions for the selection of people at work, so it is quite unclear for me how you can support a law that is exactly that basic category of choice of people in certain jobs now negates one completely other principle. And I answered the line to tell you, what you have felt hypocrisy in the speeches of individual MPs, it is hypocritical to say that political appointment is a clean and transparent and clean way of choosing people to call and schedule to jobs than it is a public tender that has its own proposition, which has its own conditions and which has control at the very end of the line and even judicial protection.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5743	Replicate response, Mr. Vice President Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5744	Thank you. When I spoke in the context of my experiences at local level, then I mentioned my experience when I went to certain ministries. How the directors of the administration acted if I, rarely when I was able to get to a higher level of State Secretary then, etc. who were elected to a public competition, and we all know very well, here we talk about hypocrisy, how they are set up. If I didn't say they asked me at the end of the day when they saw that the project that's being run for quality for the local community, if it had interest and the state in that, they'd end up asking me what color I'm wearing. Well, I mean colleagues and colleagues, again I say it's hypocritical, yes, Mr. Cobankovic, it was in your ministry. ... That was your Ministry of Agriculture back then. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And I can tell you, I won't call now, I don't know... But I can tell you... [[You don't understand.]] Who it's about and what project it's about. [[You don't understand.]] I was wondering exactly what kind of uniform I was wearing. ... Well, I think you're saying it's not possible, of course. ... /The noise in the hall./... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's not, I'd like to ask, I liked my colleague Plenkovic's debate very much. Only part of his discussion that went in the context that young people had no chance and the message he was sending them. I've got a case of a headmaster who meets all the conditions, not even a year at my place, he got an offer from the economy, and he left. I don't have a way to keep it. I don't have a way of financially that I can damage him... So there's no indication that young people don't stand a chance. [[You don't understand.]] They have a chance.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5745	Thank you. Replica, Ms. Representative, Miss twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5746	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, Mr. Batinic, here I am going to look back on you because you spoke as mayor of one city, that's Ivanec. You're saying that here today the MPs, who spoke against this, were hypocritical. So I have to tell you that then this emergency procedure proposal of yours is super hypocritical or square hypocrisy. And I'll tell you one more thing, it's sad that you're talking like this. If you've ever had any kind of comment on one of the principals, you could have made it public through the media, so someone would call it. You're talking about it today. And what is very well known is also from one city, which is the City of Zagreb and I will return again and again a thousand times to Holding, so there is exactly this hypocritical employment policy of yours in full glory. It shines so that the City of Zagreb is truly black-wrapped, it shines and so is led by the most HNS and SDP so that Holding a billion and something kuna is in debt, all in this fantastic transparent way of political employment and well said Professor Tudjman, legalization. Well indeed, your hypocrisy, not your own Mr. Batinic, but the policy you defend is indeed the hypocrisy squared.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5747	Replica reply, Mr. Vice-President Batinic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5748	You should have listened more carefully to what I was saying. Public tender that for certain functions, a public tender that from the level of local level. However, let us also not pretend unmistakable that we do not know what we have done in the past period. You know very well. And not only for the last eight years, but up to 2,000 years, not just my experience, but the experience of other colleagues who then acted. Unfortunately, there were very few and one negative context that you left behind. As for the imputation of Zagreb and the general policy, Mrs. Sumrak, to be honest, I am not directed to this. But if it stands, here's what you've just said. I believe it will be recorded. There's a management minister with his team. Of course, I hope the mayor is listening, too, so here I believe he'll get some results. Once again, I'd like to mention I haven't personally named anyone. The only thing I mentioned to my colleague, Cobankovic, was that it happened to me in his ministry. Not with him, because I couldn't even get to him.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5749	Thank you. Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5750	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I can imagine that this bill came a few months ago that would have been... fire on this right or on the left of Mr. Chairman on non-democracy, on everything that would happen. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But today this wants to be shown as a technical amendment to the law. However, this is no technical amendment to the law. And I'd ask the first question of the minister since he's here. Since at the time of adoption of the state budget this Law was not in force, you could not plan the funds according to this Law, because you cannot plan something in the budget that is not legally foreseen. Here you have given a very strange formulation that the budget is sufficient resources I don't know based on what. So, you're proposing a law that will employ hundreds of people and you're saying you don't need special funds to do that. Then it's either the Ministry of Finance, and you're like the Resolute Minister and the rest of your colleagues sending requests to the Ministry of Budgets. Then what did you plan for employees if you didn't have the law? Second, this House cannot pass a law requiring certain financial resources if these funds are not secured. So these are questions at the beginning that have to be asked and someone has to answer them for the simple reason to see how serious the debate was and how serious the proposal for a state budget was. It's just facts. But look, in the past two months, the first thing that happened to us was the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Election of Mayors and Mayors, so that certain party officials could be arrested, what was done and all this was democratic, it was all one step forward. So we have a decision that ministers can again be members of the supervisory board of state-owned enterprises and that's something that's great, advanced, etc. And now we come to this Law that is passed for a simple reason to allow certain party political-deserved members to come to work in certain ministries. And they're not going to do some super professional work for a simple reason that people who haven't spent a certain time in the administration simply can't do that job. However, what I want to take advantage of, and I will even ask Mr. Minister for me to decidently respond, which is that finally we in this House of Commons decide what is what is being paid out of the state budget. So how many civil servants and tenants do we have? So we have formations somewhere around 64,000, but the ones that this Law refers to are only about 8 and a half thousand. It's a narrow form of civil servants and tenants. You've got the judiciary and the judicial police, you've got the police, you've got the MORH and you're coming up to 64,000, and then you can't say there's 60,000 surplus in the state services. But we have public services, so health care and education where 180,000 employees are. However, look at your colleagues and colleagues. Neither in the Ministry of Health nor in the Ministry of Health, nor in the Ministry of Health, if you do not carry out structural reforms, because these people are employed because of a job. And you, if you leave it all the way it is, it's just not going to work. And that's something that you should talk about in this High House, not dealing with these political assessments and evaluations when someone tells you that it's more transparent when you call someone from somewhere and put him somewhere and you're practically doing a caste inside government officials and tenants. Because no matter how much we talk about it, the tenders are set up one way or another, but in order to join a particular competition, you have to have insight into the professional arrangements, you have to have a working experience and all the expensive ones, and so are the civil servants and tenants. We're now bringing in a hundred people who don't meet those conditions. And you can put someone as a counselor or something that doesn't have to have some kind of high-end expertise, but that's why someone decided to do it. And you will or you won't admit you can't put into the same law a group of people who simply don't belong here where they belong. You can't push them into civil servants and tenants, because they won't have to pass a professional exam for four years of their work, or a number of other things to be passed by civil servants and tenants, no matter what they tell me about them. However, look, we have all admired these days the conclusion of the negotiations, we have become a member of the European Union. So all these people who are unemployed, ignorant, etc. what they've all been called so that someone wouldn't tell me that I've called them so for the past seven, eight years they've been very dedicated and practically doing the job. And now there's a political decision being made, a political decision that I think is far-fetched for why we have to strive to depolitize, to professionalise the state administration, because that's the only way the state administration is efficient and good. Because like a job, it's something else in some other profession, so is the job of a civil servant, a substitute job that requires a certain knowledge and a certain experience. If you want to get a good and quality law and what I said this morning in a correction you so-called. Normatives who write laws can't write the law. It takes knowledge and methodologies to write the law. And you can't make these people overnight. These people have to be raised, these people have to work, and they have to be educated. Today, when we talk about these specialists to say so, we are not talking about paying classes, you have abolished 2000 paid classes in the state service, and that is the only guarantee that if someone fairly, correctly does their job regularly advances from the pay grade at a certain time, and if someone particularly points out that one can do so before a certain deadline expires. But today we are convinced that such a designation is the highlight of democracy, and that hypocrisy and farce are when you call the competition. Well, look who's applying to the contest. If he doesn't get elected, he's got a chance to complain. He's got a chance to prove he's chosen someone else, not him by some criteria. But no one here can complain, no one here can claim their rights. Maybe someone thought he'd be a five-time better advisor to a minister than someone else, but he can't even get a chance to be a minister's advisor. Why? Because the minister's advisor, by some political standard, has chosen someone. And that is, that is what is simply unacceptable and that no political decision can cover. We with this law wanted to not admit it we're going back a few years. And that's unfortunately what's not good. And the question is, what are you going to do about this and these two laws, and I didn't happen to count them, there will be reactions to Brussels in the third month? The question is, though it is primarily the decision this House will make, and we need to respect that. But let's not forget what moment we're in. And what I'd also like to say, which is that we've started chasing the concepts of state and local self-government and public administration. How can you order someone from a city to come work in some sort of state service? First thing you can't compare at all, every unit of local self-government is separate by any law. You want from the legal entity to the end of the budget. So remember what it was in the '90s when we had practically half a state official half a local. What objections were from the EU that simply things could not be mixed. And we're going back to that right now. You can today if the mayor, the mayor or mayor and some minister are made an agreement and you can move an employee in both directions, but how do you plan on going with some order to do it? Which way is it going and where is it going? So, colleagues and colleagues of public procurement, no matter how much we talk about this farce and hypocrisy, is the only thing that needs to be accepted, the only way to hire people in the state administration for the simple reason that anyone who reports to the public tender can object that he should have been elected, not someone else. And this is the third law which is one big political farce and another confirmation that unfortunately from that plan 21 is only 20 ministers and the Prime Minister, nothing concrete. And if it weren't for anything concrete look at that table outside where your applications are, I don't remember since 2000 that it's been so empty that there were no bill proposals as it happens today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5751	You have three, Mr. Schooker, replicas to introduce you from my ranks and two from the ranks of SDP and HNS. So, the first one for replica came from Mrs. Representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5752	You're very concerned about what reactions will be in Brussels over this law. I think that we should all, and especially you, be concerned about what reactions they are, and you're well aware of what people's reactions are when they see what tax debtors are and how tax officials who named their debts by competition. ... It all matters because it's all the work of the state administration. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It doesn't matter to you, it matters. You call this a farce because a few people will come with politics and go with politics, and you don't care what the work of the people who came in the contests that you glorify. And they really need to be glorified, but every abuse needs to be contained. And you're not worried about these people who won't work anymore or are likely not to work in the cabinets of the minister because you won't be able to get the first information. That's what you're worried about. So we know, we have experience, which happened before you absolutely kept your boot and control over all the mechanisms and control mechanisms. And that's why you're talking now and even so bravely why people didn't complain. After all, all these competitions and where it was grounds for hiring and defenders under the same conditions were not hired, and many successful administrative disputes even bear witness. Finally, the legality of the work of the state administration is best told by the annual reports, statistical indicators in the judiciary, and let's see how many administrative courts they are, all others show how mild a fall they are, the only administrative courts they suffer every year because of the illegality of the work of the state administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5753	Representative twilight, do you have a word? Yeah, I thought you gave it to yourself. Well, good. Thank you. Replication response, Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5754	Well, I wondered if I should even respond to a land line like this, but simple arguments are more important than anything. When we talk about tax evasion, I still have the 2002 Law on outstanding outstanding claims in my ears when 23 billion outstanding liabilities have been found. And it would be very interesting to see colleagues Marinovic make deals with, with whom and under what conditions. ... It's very transparent. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It would be very interesting to see. But unlike you, I'm the minister who proposed the strongest instrument to fight what you're talking about. You didn't have political powers, we had political forces and we brought the OIB. And what you're all saying now is that your successes are the result of the introduction of the OIB. So people are always talking about deeds, not words. I've never opened leaves.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5755	Mr. Representative Josip Bencic has a replica of Mr. Shucker's presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5756	Thank you, Mr. President. Here I am going to answer as a man who I've worked for 11 years in the state administration and in the IRS. I'm always fascinated by Mr. Shucker's exposure because he's just giving us a hint of what we should have done. So he doesn't say how many civil servants he was in his day. But I don't want to talk about it right now. I'll talk about something else. This is all about responsibility, Mr. Shucker, for me. Let the minister choose his assistants and he will be responsible for his work with that choice. At one point I agreed with you, there are 7 or 8 grand in tax and tax administration, and the vast majority of them are truly honorable and fair and still holding their jobs. If you had responded as these ministers would now respond, then the finance minister for Barisic's stupidity would have fallen immediately, he would not have needed a competition or anything, because he would have taken all the responsibility for that nonsense that was being done in customs. You've always been hiding behind some kind of contest. Don't let me repeat now what kind of competitions these were all my colleagues and colleagues explained. At that moment, a man takes full responsibility for customs, what he'll decide, what anyone will be where he is, and I think it's the only real fair route. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5757	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Shucker's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5758	A colleague with all your reckless attacks will not ban me from speaking in this House, you've had a chance to discuss last week's report of the State Audit. The finance ministry has unconditional opinion, customs unconditional opinion, Mr. Barisic, as far as customs is concerned, has not been convicted or investigated for anything. And it's not fair if you're a member of the Ministry of Finance that in any way you're dosing a colleague like you just said. Therefore, consider the opinion of the Ministry of Finance, customs unconditional opinion. Customs first completed negotiations to join the European Union but I say no such low doses will you forbid me to speak in this high house and to express my opinion and opinion of my party. But if you don't have the arguments to kill my argument with arguments, don't make it a lie because of those less than 3,000 customs officers who are now freezing outside at customs crossings and doing their job fairly, and don't forget that these people have discovered a series of crimes and therefore it's not fair and it's not correct to call these people off and I'm proud to be the head of that institution for seven years.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5759	You see, Mr. Schooker, I now have to act as chairman, you're saying here that no one will forbid you to speak, I don't know when you've been banned from speaking here. Please, no, look here it's been said twice that Mr. Bencic can't forbid you to speak. Well, good. So you don't get it wrong. Mr. Representative Davor Ivo Stier has a replica on your exposure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5760	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's my colleague Schucker mentioned what it would have been like if a law like this had been proposed a few months ago, I would have asked myself what it would have been like in January if a law had been proposed with the minister, perhaps a narrow circle, the chief of staff, or so it should have been politically appointed and officials, and maybe it could have been considered in some context, but it didn't, it went differently. There were political appointments of directors or assistants and there was a strategic mistake, and then now colleagues from the SDP miraculously wonder that I don't know maybe experts from the European Union warn of this mistake or that ordinary Croatian citizens are also wondering why this ruling coalition has put the priority on the appointment of politically similar people instead of dealing with structural reforms, that's the point of this whole story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5761	Thank you. The answer to the line, Mr. counsel Shucker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5762	Thank you very much. You are right, my colleague Stier, and that is why I started my debate with the question of whether the funds were secured and later, in one part of my debate, I said that Plan 21 does not exist, there are 20 ministers and prime ministers who apparently at the moment of proposing the government's structure and at the moment of the budget they did not know how the ministry works and what they needed when they came to that ministry that they could function. So, in one hopelessness which and how to do, how to accommodate similar party people who have failed to get into state-owned companies, it is now necessary to invent advisers and speakers and to make that clear, that is the main reason for the adoption of this Act, and all appointments will confirm it. I repeat, no matter how farce the most powerful instrument for everyone to report and offer their services to the state administration and be sure not to eliminate someone who has a good résumé just like that, there are independent institutions in this society that are not controlled by politics, do not hide behind that certain public procurements were farces.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5763	Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, you have a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5764	Thank you, Mr. President. You told your colleague Schuker that this law is working to enable employment, let's say 100 people in the ministries, but a few hundred without, but transparently without competitions and by what criteria and now I, as head of a local self-government unit, are thinking practically I have at least 10 to 15 possible candidates for these places and from the ranks of SDP and HNS. They have excellent references, excellent tractors, I noticed them at the protest points when this was about this trouble that happened to them with the milk, in the ministry every day would be cheese and cream because they can't sell milk and the criteria don't matter. In that sense, it's my one concrete proposal, but I'm afraid this time my farmers will remain short sleeves, I can't sell milk, the support is reduced, and I don't think they can, the contest won't be, and I don't think anyone will call them from a higher level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5765	Thank you. The answer to the line, Mr. counsel Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5766	Well, colleague Milinkovic, you have now said a very clear message without the intention of insulting any of the civil servants and subsistence officers, but let's say if you're reporting for the delivery guy, for the cleaners, you have to pass the public tender, you have to meet certain conditions. However, if you want to be a minister's advisor, if you want to be chief of staff, if you want to do huge jobs for the minister's needs, because there are not enough capable moments in the ministries at this point because they are not party-painted enough, then you can't do that. So there's a difference and the principle of democracy is clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5767	Thank you. And the replica of Mrs. Djurjica twilight, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5768	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Here it is, my colleague Shuker, I certainly support your debate and all your answers to the replicas and it was clear to us now and from the replicas of your debate coming from the SDP: Number One, they want to relieve the administrative courts so they will no longer be employed by competition, so people will no longer appeal to the administrative court and, of course, there is no need in the Administrative Court anymore, so basically he shouldn't even exist for a few years because there are no more complaints, so they're going to hire it so nicely. And then on the other hand, you also told your colleague Shucker there's no application for a hearing outside. Well, no, they finally admitted that the former 2.5 years of government of Mrs. Jadranka Kosor I must say the HDZ authorities have done and passed over hundreds of harmonised laws with the EU as well as our own. Today you have nothing to deal with except how your friends from the debate clubs hire and, say, secure something and they won't cause you any problems and no one will be able to cause a problem because they won't be able to appeal to the Administrative Court. Here's the real truth. And Mr. Schucker, you've made an excellent observation in your debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5769	So it was a replica? I'm just going to look into a dictionary that's a replica, I didn't realize what a replica is. [[Intruder: Unanimously.]] But please it's an interpretation. You don't have an answer, do you? [[Intruder:And what will end our replica now the same.]] I'm thinking the same thing. All right, here's a Mr. Representative Fran Matušić, and on behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Jozo Radoš will be five minutes. Here you go, Mr. Representative Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5770	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it seems to me that the way these laws are passed so far, but given the content of these laws, that we should introduce a new abbreviations for the laws that are ahead of us and I suggest that this keybinding is called DTT, which would mean as long as they last, they last. Because that's the very content of this law that is before us about civil servants who are proposing something that is absolutely unacceptable to all those obligations that we have made and as a country that enters the EU tomorrow, because we have just taken over European acquis, we have also taken over some of the obligations and regulation of state administration. So, as far as the state administration is concerned, we went to the state administration reform. The reform is financed by EU funds and European Commission funds. It was therefore important, among other things, to accept the fact that there should be no inappropriate punishment or inappropriate remuneration of civil servants. With this bill of law, it is certain that this principle is injured because in this way there can also be inappropriate punishment, I would say, I would also say, inappropriately rewarding civil servants. In particular, this law introduces a new category of civil servants, which is similar to those of the state administration, in particular hundreds of new employees of future newly employed civil servants will be chosen according to the only criteria of political similarity. Because what to say to the explanation that says that the minister who communicates must trust the people he communicates with. Well, I suppose the minister should communicate with all the people who are employed in the ministry or at least most of them communicate with his ministry, which should, in turn, mean that political similarity will be introduced tomorrow for all other employees in the ministry and there will be no public competitions and that there is actually a question of survival of civil servants in the ministry. Of course, there have already been words about what the difference between public competitions and political staffing is in this sense political similarity, regardless of what attempts to show that public tenders are often used as a farce to choose again those people whom someone intends to hire. I think we can freely say that such an approach is absolutely unfounded because, of course, everyone is protected by law and that everyone can seek justice as much as they think that in any part of that public tender, any part of the procedure has been violated or someone has guessed that they can prove it before the law. In this case, this is about not having to prove anything, that these people who are going to be acting in the ministry in the cabinet of ministers in this present case, and tomorrow perhaps in the entire ministry, that they are actually only responding to their minister, the only person who has proposed them to do the job, and in essence they have no other obligations whatsoever. And why would they even have them when they came in political likeness? Why would someone answer, why would someone account for someone specifically the Croatian Assembly or someone else when he came to the workplace by the sole will of the minister whom he chose to be on his team, etc. past the procedure, past all public competitions so far, beyond what has been the rule so far. In this way, of course, that we have brought great mistrust to civil servants, or through this law, the government has introduced great mistrust towards the current employees and civil servants who have manifested themselves to this bill, absolutely rejecting it by not accepting it. Their unions, which were the only ones who got the strength because they didn't know what was waiting for them, made it clear that it was absolutely unacceptable for them to move from a place of state service, so from ministries to public administration to education, health care, library, etc., etc. or local and regional self-government. Of course, this is about significantly different jobs, of course it's about people being educated in order to be able to behave certain jobs and that these jobs have been reported in competitions and that they have had to take a state expert exam to meet those basic conditions of knowledge of the problem of the job. So I'm really surprised at the colleagues who defend the insecure. Admit it, it's a political resemblance, depolitisation of the state administration, and of course we'll all make it clear that that's the case and we won't discuss it any further.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5771	Thank you. Anyone who doesn't want to have to discuss it doesn't have the right to speak. Mrs. Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go. You have a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5772	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it kind of seems to me if it's the last debate that's almost led to the absurdity of some things by our colleagues. Comrade Matušić, you say, of course, now we're going to get to it. There's going to be some people who are going to bring in ministers who are going nowhere to account for their work, let's say to the assembly or someone else. To whom have these people in the cabinets of individual ministers or in the cabinet, say, Prime Minister or Deputy Prime Minister? What should have or what should have been done, for the current ministers to keep the speakers and the chiefs of the cabinet, because these are the secretaries who are scheduled to be detained and continue to do so to some other ministers. Whether the current government spokesman should remain a spokesman for the new Prime Minister. Or is it that if I'm not mistaken or the chief of staff who's here with us right now, the parliamentary representative was a deputy, doesn't matter now, with President Kosor, she's supposed to stay in the government and be in the same place right now to some new prime minister? Well, as far as I know, your president, when she became Prime Minister, I don't see that she has kept the strongest cabinet from the former prime minister, and now you're asking for it and you're asking for it, and you're suggesting that it's absurd that it doesn't happen now with the new ministers. You know very well that everywhere in the world it's normal to hire a team that belongs to him to call him a secretary or secretary of the ministry or a chief or chief of staff and a spokeswoman or first some kind of advisor, that it's the hardest team. In my opinion, it is fairer for them to be appointed in this way, to know if there is a change of government or if there is a change in the minister that is a team that is leaving with that minister or minister. And that's fairer and fairer and it was practice, you now try to convince me, and during your power. It wasn't the ministers who came in new who kept the old speakers or the old chief of staff.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5773	Thank you. Do you have a reply to the replica? Here you go, Mr. Representative Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5774	The difference is big because the previous government in these places chose people by the basis of a public tender or is... /The noise in the hall./... Or from the existing staff, so from the existing staff of civil servants, she chose those she thought I could act in that capacity. So the difference is large, no new jobs were created, no one was brought without a public tender, no conditions needed for certain jobs. No one could if they did not have high professional equipment appropriate, etc. So the differences are huge, the differences are huge. Use the existing frame that is quite certainly professional, which is available and which you can use within the civil servants, so you can find those who will most certainly present your policy in the best possible way. I'm sure you'll find them. So the differences were huge, just like the differences in the fact that the directors of the administration were actually offended, that you put the political side of the ministerial assistants, that you insulted all of the civil servants. That's what this is about. It is a matter of disenfranchising public service, civil servants who in this way do not really have any more motivation because in the service they can only advance to the 3.10 coefficient, and not as it has been so far, because the director of the administration was indeed one category of civil servant who had drawn both experience and trust and expertise and all that such a civil servant had to solve. In that sense, you have truly violated the entire system of civil servants. This is indeed a depravation and, in some ways, the introduction of a total mess in the state service.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5775	Thank you very much. And finally, on behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Jozo Radoš and the president of that club. Here you go, final five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5776	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. It is important to know that when we talk about this with all the hard words and concerns we are actually talking about only 1% of civil servants in a narrow sense and less than 1 prominence of civil servants and tenants for whom public tenders remain. The question is just what public tenders will be, whether they will be set up, fictitious and fixed or will be real public tenders and this is a fundamental issue either and this fundamental issue remains. It is also important that I say on behalf of the club that this law raises a much more important issue, such as the state administration in the Republic of Croatia and how this state administration can be better. Mr. Minister announced that we will have a register of state administration employees somewhere in 2013, and it is a very sad situation that we do not have that register today, so I have consulted two available state sources to see how the number of employees in the state administration is developing in the last 10 years, so it will be very clear what kind of policy it has been. So one source is the State Statistics Office, statistical information. Following the number of employees in the state administration under the term of public administration, but actually it's the state administration because public administration, so health and education and social care is under other paragraphs, it's the state administration. So in 2003, there was a fall of employees in the state administration from 123, and this slowly goes to 118,000, etc., thanks to the largest reduction in the number of defence ministry employees who were reduced in those 5-6 years by 24000. Afterwards, the figure stagnates, but in fact it is de facto growing because it continues to reduce the number of employees in the Ministry of Defence so that the re-fall and full effects of the government's policy could be noticed and observed in 2008 when the number of employees in the public administration and defence force grew by 6 thousand. In 2009, during the crisis, for 2 000 and 2010 for 1 thousand, and the situation of 30 September 2011, therefore there are 3 thousand more employees in the years of the crisis: 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011. The same data, only with different numbers because it is the state of 31st December, this is the average state, the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute data. And then what are we talking about? We are talking about irresponsible behavior because these over 12 thousand employees in the state administration, with an average gross salary of 12 thousand, makes about a billion and 300 or 400 million kuna a year and talks about the Financial Responsibility Act, while the state must be in charge of a billion and a half kuna to pay salaries to employees who are increasing in times of crisis. And that's the real question, how do we deal with it and how do we deal with it? That's the real question. One speaker says just before it was impossible to reduce the number of employees without structural reforms. It was certainly impossible to reduce them, but without structural reforms it was possible to increase them. And we're where we are. This law we're talking about is taking political responsibility and this ruling majority is not keeping it secret. They will bear political responsibility for what she has done, and this is very clearly said by both the Government and here in the Croatian Parliament, and we have a real problem with the regulation of the state administration, the minimalisation and the doing of the administration and the quality of the administration still need to be dealt with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5777	Thank you. It is still in force to correct the incorrect allegations that Mr. Representative Shuker applied for first, so Ms. Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5778	Thank you very much. The only competent authority that can talk about the number of civil servants and deputies is the Ministry of Administration. According to their data, so what the law calls state officials and tenants at this point is about 64,000. And secondly, I think if you were listened to by union workers at the state administration and when they heard they had a gross salary of 12,000 kuna none was happier than them, they'd just probably knock on your door and come ask you where they'd go for that pay difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5779	Correction of Mrs. Lovrin's incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5780	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I'm correcting the quote, says a fellow representative that this law opens the question of how to make the state administration more efficient and efficient. This law absolutely does not, because if you think the state administration will become more effective by choosing without competition from people in the cabinet of ministers, and these are not just speakers and chiefs of cabinets but also a number of other advisors who are now now, by the internal formation of certain ministries, as I hear there are 19 or 17. So it won't make it more effective, nor will it reduce this number that you've been talking about increasing the number of civil servants.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5781	Thank you. And in the end, but I don't know if at the very end, because there's still a correction to the incorrect assumption, Mr. Secretary Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5782	I would like to thank Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The debate lasted long, it was dynamic, it touched many topics. I'd like to answer some of the allegations that I think we should answer. So, first of all, I'm going to refer to Mr. counsel Shucker's data on the number of employees. So, when the total number of employees in all ministries is taken away by the Ministry of the Interior because of the specificity of the police, when the Ministry of Finance is taken away except for the narrow part due to the customs tax, when the Ministry of Justice is taken away by the Department of the Prison System in the other 17 ministries for less employees than in the two largest Zagreb hospitals. So, do something about not now in number, about 8,000. When it is added to it by agencies where it works about 2100, then when it is added, for example, to the Office of State Administration in Countys where it works 2900, when the other state bodies are added the Constitutional Court, so what cannot be taken under it is another 800. There are still state administrations 3500, so the Department of Statistics, hydrometeorologically, now we can re-interpret whether it's an administration in the classical sense or not. Edit the Government of the Republic of Croatia 497. We get a figure somewhere around 60 thousand civil servants and 160,000 public officials, and that's the number that's published, which is accurate and based on the data from the register. Yeah, so let me try and describe what's going on. So 67,000 employees work in schools and dormitories. That is, therefore, more than in the ministries. He works in health institutions 61,000, at universities 13 etc. And we come up with a $230,000 number circled I'm talking about who's on the payroll in a state budget with no army and no security services. It is a number which, therefore known, has repeatedly been published by the basis of the data from the register. What I am saying when I am talking about the full function of the register of officials is the need to pay salaries to all state and public officials, because then in one place we will have information about wages, information about everything that is necessary for the centralized salary account and for the management of human potentials, which is in Article 2. The law establishing the register of officials was precisely the goal. And that's something we're trying to do. It takes, of course, great technical preparation and engineering skills, but it's something the state needs to do. So here's what I think about the employees that we're dealing with right now. As far as budget issues are concerned, have we foreseen in the budget for these 100 to express myself in such a way that the funds are therefore foreseen under the existing systematisation. You said yourself that there are more systematic jobs than there are officers. Therefore, even under the current law without amending these laws, people can be hired to have money in the budget. If someone leaves the service, if someone leaves the service, someone gets a job in his place. Well, it's not like you guys did budget rebalances every time you called. Thus, the finance minister, based on the data in the last two months, said the salary cost is 2 and a half percent lower than planned and, in that sense, it is possible to do so in the current funds in the current cabinet of the minister. Another explanation. Therefore, civil servants can also be deployed to work in the cabinet of ministers after these changes. Some may deploy officials from the system to all places in the cabinet as provided for in Article 74b. The law, and maybe one or two of them will use the right of Article 74c. The law to bring to the workplace which is systematised and for which the conditions are prescribed to be brought by a person who meets the professional conditions according to the professional provision, in accordance with the direction which he has completed and according to the course prescribed for a given post. Here is the difference between these officials and those who will come without competition, so those who are in the state service that those who have come under the minister's right to go. Those who were civil servants remain civil servants. In theory, I heard 234 places of employment this morning, but theoretically, no such person could be employed. I think it's also an estimate I've made about 50 without the government's amendment that it's going to be very close to the ministries. Therefore, and this is that part, given that this was the most interesting part of the debate to clarify, and I must point out, I do not know if the MPs remember, on the day of receiving the trust of the Croatian Parliament, also announced by Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic in his speech that it is possible that another part of the ministry could be used what is now being repeated by the revolving door, so people who come and go with the minister to go to such changes of the law. And that's what we're doing now. Also, as far as other changes are concerned, I believe that they will enable a more efficient state administration, but I also allow that we will not agree on that. And to Mr. Salapic, therefore, as far as the head of the Office of State Administration is concerned, the Government has appointed 20 heads of the Office of State Administration in the counties in 18 counties as officers of the duties of people who were either prime ministers or their deputies. 18 out of 20. It's about the number of presidents left. You called them HDZs, I wouldn't call them that. So, they were during the previous government. I think there are 11 left, but I'll check in, and I'll get back to you with the exact information. So here's to not being irresponsible. And I'd like to say about the director of the administration, Mr. Matusic. Since the introduction of such a solution in its reports to the Croatian Assembly, the Ombudsman has warned that this is not a good solution, since such a solution was introduced. So, the permanent occupier warned that this was not a good solution. And he was talking about politicizing and the opposite of what you were saying. And as for the way in which the director is elected by the management of the regulation governing such a choice, the trade unions, which you have also called upon, are referred to the Constitutional Court because they claim to be anti-constitutional. Here's so much to start with, for the end of the pardon. I thank all the MPs who participated in the debate, all who will vote and call on the Croatian Parliament to support these amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5783	Thank you very much. The debate on the text of the law is over. We'll vote when the conditions are met, that'll be tomorrow. Allow colleagues and colleagues before we move to the next item of the agenda for which I estimate it will not last long because we have all three debates filed until four, you will see this later if one of them gives up because it may not be here, to remember the National Protection Day and the National Protection Day. May I have your attention, please? "The Croatian Parliament last year established by law that the National Protection Day in the Republic of Croatia is being declared the mention of National Protection. The National Protection Units were founded 21 years ago on a voluntary basis with the aim of defending legitimate authorities, citizens and states from major Serbian aggression first in Zagreb and then in all free Croatia. The voluntary provisions of the People's Protection are Croatia and we thus express our gratitude for their outstanding contribution to the Homeland War. Members of the People's Protection have taken over the country's defence at the most difficult and crucial times when Croatia did not have the weapons of defence against attacks on its sovereignty and freedom of citizens. The National Protection Voluntary Orders were responsible for carrying out a number of defence tasks, and one of the most important was the blockade and conquest of the JNA military. This carefully and secretly prepared action has led to a strategic change in the ratio of forces to the battlefield. The psychological effect of the action was immeasurable. It has been shown that the creation of National Protection has expressed all the determination and aspirations of Croatian citizens to defend the Homeland and build a free and democratic Croatia." I therefore call upon fellow MPs and MPs to pay tribute to the dead members of the People's Protection for a minute of silence. A moment of silence, may they have eternal glory and thank you. We move to a statement on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants, an emergency procedure, first and second reading. The debate is closed. I note that we have one conclusion here. The amendment submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia becomes an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get involved and vote. Thank you. I find that most of the votes are 76 votes in favour, 31 against and no one abstentions has passed the Law amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants in the text as proposed by the Proposer. Before we get to the bottom of this, is there any problem? Before we take note of the proposal for a conclusion submitted by the Club of Representatives of the HSU, please show the Government's representative on this proposal whether or not he agrees with the proposal for a conclusion?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5785	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We accept the conclusion in a way that only extends the deadline from 90 to 120 days to draft the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5786	Do you agree?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5787	It's consensual.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5788	Thank you. Accordingly, the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the HSU and, now, by way of correction by the Government within the meaning of the proposal adopted by the Club of Representatives of the HSU, I am voting on the following conclusion: - the Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes that within 120 days of the date of adoption of this law, in accordance with the provisions of Article 10(3). The Law on civil servants and Article 7 of this Act amending and supplementing the Law on civil servants in the Croatian Parliament provides a proposal for a special law to regulate salaries and other material rights of civil servants or a new proposal of the Law on civil servants. I'm asking you to turn yourself in and vote. Thank you. I find that the conclusion was reached with most votes, 77 votes in favour, 8 against and 24 abstentions. Here we go to the last item of the agenda today. And that is - Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Council Register Act, Council coordination and representatives of national minorities, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 52 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by 3 committees, for legislation, for the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, for human rights and the rights of national minorities. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Mr. Secretary Arsen Bauk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5790	Thank you, Mr. President. So we can still call it a technical amendment to the law, given that we have noticed that the application of the existing law has not therefore fulfilled what it was meant to do and that there have been certain problems in the implementation that we believe will be removed from these amendments. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the The constitutional law on the rights of national minorities has been established that with the aim of improving, preserving and protecting the position of minorities in society, members of national minorities choose their representatives to participate in public life and to manage local affairs through councils and representatives of national minorities. The provisions of the Constitutional Law also stipulate that the Council of National Minorities of Local and Regional Self-Government may establish coordination and improvement of common interests and that the Council of National Minorities of Units of Local Self-Government may establish co-ordination of Councils for the Republic of Croatia when more than half of the Councils of National Minorities of the Regional Self-Government have joined the Regional Self-Government Agreement. For the councils of national minorities and for the coordination of national minority councils, constitutional law requires the acquisition of legal personality. As the property of a legal person is obtained by enrolment in the Register, the procedure and manner of registration of councils, the coordination of councils and representatives of national minorities is governed by this law, while the form and content and keeping of the register and forms of registration of the Boards are governed by a sublegal act, in particular by the Regulation on the form, content and manner of registering, etc. The current application of the Register Act pointed to certain difficulties, complexity, inequality and slowness in the implementation of the prescribed procedure for the registration of entities in the register and it was necessary to amend and supplement the existing law with the aim of removing those problems. Therefore, the content to which this law applies is to remove, settle the following issues, remove doubts relating to the application for re-registeration and the possibility of re-registering of the Council of National Minorities which were entered in the Register of the Council of National Minorities under earlier applicable rules, regulate the jurisdiction to monitor the legality of the statutes of the Council of National Minorities and assess the statutes of coordination of the Council of National Minorities, regulate the content of the solution to the registration of entities in the register and regulate the way members of the coordination of the Council of National Minorities Councils. We also propose that the law be adopted by an urgent procedure because we assess that the adoption of the law requires particularly justified reasons but what is important is that elections for members of national minorities' councils and representatives of national minorities in local self-government units were held on 10 July 2011, that elections were held for more than 6 months and that the procedure for enrolment in the register or issuing a decision on the registration of councils in the register in accordance with the existing law was complicated and slow, making the elected council impossible to exercise the relevant rights and obligations of the Constitutional Law also proposed that the law enter into force on the day of publication in the National Journal. Of course, this topic and this law is an opportunity to discuss something broader about this problem and I believe that this debate will help regulate this matter in a better way than it has ever been. Respecting what has been achieved in the previous period during the previous government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5791	Thank you very much to the Minister of Administration and a member of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Do the work bodies and committees want reporters? Yeah. Here you go, Agent Furio Radin, on behalf of the Committee on Human Rights.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5792	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. This Committee, this Final Bill of Law, has been considered as a parent working body. Most members in the debate supported the proposed amendments and amendments to the Law, assessing it unacceptable that no council of national minorities was registered not seven months after the election. The question has been raised whether the problem is only legislative obstacles or whether there are other reasons for the Council's failure to function, which should be explored further. The opinion was expressed that when it comes to co-ordination of councils established for the territory of the Republic of Croatia, it should be specified by stressing that the coordinations operating in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia in order to avoid possible doubts. By providing an explanation of this proposal, the Proposer's representative concluded that in Article 3. The law which is not the subject of the proposed amendments and additions should be precisely defined by the registration entity, so there is no doubt in practice that there may be doubts in the implementation of this legal provision. In the debate, the proposer raised the question of whose legal arrangement was open and which the representatives of the national minorities in this committee pointed to in the previous term. And now this adds to what the minister said that there are a number of issues that must be regulated in this area by other laws. These issues have been pointed out more or less because this Committee has already discussed these issues several times, so it would be more or less about these issues. It has thus been pointed out to the problem of implementing elections for the councils and representatives of national minorities whose legal arrangement the Committee has repeatedly requested, so this is the first problem that had to be addressed and this is how elections will be conducted, because they are now being conducted, these elections are being conducted by analogies to other legal solutions, and analogies should be legally defined once for all. Secondly, the problem of lack of legal regulation has been identified in terms of minority organisation, given that the current drug law applicable to minority associations does not include the specificity of organisation that is characteristic of associations whose purpose is to protect, improve, identify members of national minorities. National Minorities Councils are not associations, but they are regulated as if they are. There you need to specify exactly how they will be regulated. Because they're not associations and yet they function more or less like associations. The legal personality of representatives of national minorities remains unknown, which in practice limits their effectiveness, and in particular, which is particularly important for those national minorities who do not have a choice for their councils. Likewise, when it comes to the coordination of national minority councils established in the area of the Republic of Croatia, the question has been raised for the territory of the Republic of Croatia whether the legal solutions under which the councils transfer their powers together and thereby reduce the role of the National Minority Council established by the Constitutional Law. Finally, although the adoption was considered in the Register Act, progress was made, the opinion was given that it should be considered whether the legal solutions contained a sufficiently effective mechanism that would allow for the uncontrollable establishment of coordination. Given that the Constitutional Law allows for the establishment of coordination within the same minority and the formation of coordination between the councils of different minorities, which in practice could lead to unnecessary multiplication of these councils. Finally, it was requested that, in the process of adopting the Law on the Registration of Councils of Coordination, representatives of national minorities be accepted by the Committee's proposal that funds for the work of coordination of the councils of national minorities... be secured in the territory of the entire Republic in the state budget, because so far this has not been regulated. After the debate was held, the Committee decided, by a majority of votes, 8 for and 2 abstentions, to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Register of Councils, Council coordination and representatives of national minorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5793	Thank you, too, President of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. Do representatives of other working bodies want? No, no, no. Thank you very much. We're going to a club debate. The right to debate has been registered by respected representative Melita Mulic on behalf of the Social Democratic Party of Croatia club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5794	I would like to thank the honourable Vice President of the Parliament, the honourable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. This proposal for a law is one of the equative examples of how an under-prepared law that was passed in July of last year, so not long ago, is technically inconclusive and due to insufficient administrative capacity and burden on the body of the general administration or to the non-application of the principle of subsidiarity in the administration. Of course, it was brought with good intentions that was already said here but it did not come to life and therefore we have to change it. Since the minister noted that he expects a certain contribution when it comes to the general regulation of this issue, and partly on the basis of what the Committee has concluded, I think it is necessary to take a little contextualisation of some of the issues in this matter more than the Constitutional Law. In fact, a fair representation of all segments of society is one of the main political goals in most democracies. In its constitutional decisions, the Republic of Croatia has determined that the status of national minorities is constitutionalised as part of the matter of human rights and fundamental freedoms as governed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The representation of national minorities aims to ensure an electoral system that will enable them to participate in political life in general and prevent possible discrimination. The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities ensures that minorities are represented in representative bodies at national and local level. The protection of national minorities and the rights and freedoms of members of national minorities are also governed by international contracts which the Republic of Croatia is party to. For example. the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities, the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and its Protocols, the European Charter on Regional Minority Languages of Special Laws and bilateral international agreements relating to minority rights. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The constitutional law states that with the aim of improving and protecting the position of minorities in society, members of national minorities are to elect their representatives to participate in public life and to manage local affairs through councils and representatives of national minorities. The Republic of Croatia has achieved a high degree of protection of the rights of national minorities through its legislative and political representation practices at national level. Accordingly, it is very often pointed out that in the legal regulation of this issue we have moved away from many countries. For example, the representation of minority members in the parliaments of Europe is an exception, and it appears more frequently in the representative bodies of local and regional self-government. So at European level because this is much more often regulated in regional rural parliaments, or at the level of local self-government units. Croatia, however, has room to improve the legislative framework. I would like to remind you that the Law on the Register of Councils of Co-ordination Councils and representatives of the national minority Croatian Parliament adopted in two readings on 1 July of last year. So that was 6 days before the election was held for the council and representatives of national minorities. The SDP club then did not support the law because they sought a more complete and quality production of a normative part of the overall matter that regulates minority policy in the Republic of Croatia. How bad it was that the law was passed in an emergency procedure although in two readings formally but urgently realized that it was effective three days before the elections were held and with unprepared management we see it today. The law was passed without pre-registration of the remaining problems related to the council and representatives. Instead of passing the Law on Representatives and Councils of National Minorities, the Register Act was adopted. Because the procedure and manner of registration of these organisational forms of national minorities in units of local self-government or in units of regional (regional) self-government was not prescribed by any law but by a sublaw was prescribed the content of the register, management and forms of registration applications in the register of national minorities. The Register Act has raised a number of questions, so when it comes to legal personality, consistency, certification and control of the lawfulness of the Statu, the way of selecting or the legitimacy of the members of the coordination. In view of the fact that nine months after the entry into force of the law and the held elections, the laws of law have proved irreparable or difficult to implement before us, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Register of Councils of Coordination of Councils and representatives of national minorities with the Final Bill which will support the SDP club because it will allow for the resolution of both the administrative disorder that has taken place around the old and the new register so that it will also enable legitimately elected representatives of national minorities and representatives to exercise their rights guaranteed by a broad legal framework which we have and at the same time practically blocked by the non-implementation of this law. In fact, there have been cycles of choices for minority self-government so far. If we could argue that the first elections for the councils and representatives of national minorities entered a new period of protection of the right that despite all the problems that have arisen, we still marked the beginning of a better exercise of national minorities' rights at local and regional levels,... the end of the third election cycle at least we can argue that we are at the end of that beginning. We know that the electronic register that was required to run the Department of Administration has not been revived. The old register was withdrawn from the ministry's website and returned to the fact that the newly elected presidents or presidents of the council could not get a solution to register entry, that some could not access the jury account without the authority of their predecessors. If we know all of this then we can conclude that we are far from the end of the beginning and to an ancestor in the quality and full exercise of minority rights in local self-government. Let's not forget, another fact led to that. The elections were scheduled in July at the time of the annual holidays. The work of the council and representatives of national minorities in the process but also in the second term has been marked by different conditions in which individual councils have acted. There was dissatisfaction with the position and possibility of action that had most of the councils and representatives of national minorities. This fact was in no way able to produce a positive effect on voter turnout and the motivation of members of the national minorities themselves, but the fact that the elections are being discussed in July has affected the fact that after three election cycles have been conducted that the response is lower. Less than in the election four years ago. This year, a total of 11.2% of national minorities of 362,000 317 were enrolled in the voter lists. The elections were held for members of a total of 276 councils of national minorities and for a total of 173 representatives of national minorities in municipalities, cities and counties. Nearly 90% of the councils and about 75% of national minorities were elected. In the name of responsibility to all of them and considering that the legislative solution proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia allows for the removal of doubts about reregistering and registration in the register, to establish the powers to monitor the legality of institutes, councils and the coordination of councils, to regulate the content of a solution for the registration of entities in the register and the arrangements for determining members of the coordination of councils, and, most importantly, to enable the exercise of the rights and obligations of certain SDP Club laws to support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5795	Thanks a lot to the SDP club. We're going forward with the debate. On behalf of the club Liberal Democrats Croatian People's Party Vladimir Bilek. Dear Representative Vladimir Bilek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5796	The Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. As has already been said here today by the Constitutional Law itself, it has been found that with the aim of improving and preserving the protection of the position of minorities in society, members of national minorities choose their representatives to participate in public life and to manage local affairs through councils and representatives of national minorities. It is also prescribed that the Council of National Minorities of Local and Regional Self-Government may establish the coordination or promotion of common interests of the Council of National Minorities and that the Council of National Minorities of the Regional Self-Government may establish coordination of national minorities councils for the territory of the Republic of Croatia when more than half of the National Minority Councils and the Regional Self-Government Agreements have joined. For the councils of national minorities and for the coordination of the councils of national minorities, constitutional law requires the acquisition of legal personality, but as this property of legal personality is obtained by enrolment in the register of proceedings and the way councils are registered, Council coordination and representatives of national minorities are governed by the Law on the Register of Councils. The coordination of councils and representatives of national minorities, while the form and content and keeping of registers and forms of applications for registration in the Register of National Minorities Councils are governed by the Regulation on the form, content and manner of keeping the register of councils, Council coordination and representatives of national minorities. The current application of the Register Act has pointed to certain difficulties: inequality and slowness in the implementation of the prescribed registration procedure of the subjects in the register. I am pleased here today that the applicant has seen these problems and that these changes will, in particular, resolve some of them, such as removing doubts relating to the application for re-registeration and the possibility of re-registering the councils of national minorities that have been registered in the register of national minorities according to earlier applicable rules, regulating the jurisdiction to monitor the legality of the statutes of the national minority councils and certifying the Statute of the Statutes of the coordination of the Council of National Minorities, setting out the content of a solution for the registration of entities in the register and regulating how members of the coordination of the National Minority Councils are determined. Therefore, the Register Act provides that the National Minority Councils of Local and Regional Self-Government Units, which are entered in the existing National Minority Council Register, may be entered in the register on the basis of a re-registeration request, with the delivery of certain documents, and that part of the documents which the current National Minority Council Register does not have at its disposal has caused certain misunderstandings related to the submission of an appropriate form of the amendment to the register and the delivery of appropriate contributions to that form. Therefore, it is primarily justified to adopt amendments to this law by an urgent procedure, i.e. the need for haste in accordance with this law, given that elections for members of national minority councils and representatives of national minorities in local and regional self-government units were held last July 10th, i.e. over 6 months have elapsed since the elections were held. And as for the solutions themselves, only a few solutions were issued, primarily to representatives because the part was simpler. It is also important to initiate procedures in cases under the requirements of the registration entities for the register of councils, Council coordination and representatives of non-completed national minorities, which are initiated, so until the entry into force of this law, these proceedings will continue and be completed in accordance with the provisions of this law for the reasons that this law is much more favourable for those registration entities. Since the current Register Act did not specify who may be a member of the coordination of the National Minority Council, or whether only a member of the Board or a member of the Coordination Council may be appointed outside the membership order, or a person not elected in the elections. That is why it is in Article 21. The Register Act added an item to which this issue has been settled and so that members of coordination are determined by the Council means from their own ranks. In this way we can say that one small part of the problem is solved, but we also have to say that we still have major problems directly in the functioning of minority councils in practice because where there is understanding of local self-government such as. in Daruvar or in Zagreb the councils are functioning. But we also have different examples where, by not understanding local self-government like in Ilock, these councils are still today only the decorations of democracy, and they have no purpose in their original part of it. There is also a big problem with the terms of holding elections for the council and for representatives who could first and foremost connect with local elections since most of them are monitoring them. This would ensure a sufficient number of polling stations, greater turnout to the elections, and thus also strengthen the legitimacy of elected representatives and councils. And we're at this time where finance is very important to us, and that would make a significant part of the funding go away. Therefore, we need to consider whether there is a need for electoral law in this section. What to say in the end, here on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party-Liberal Democrats, the Croatian People's Party-Liberal Democrats will support these amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5797	Thanks a lot to the HNS club. Let's go forward. On behalf of the National Minorities Club in the Croatian Assembly, respected representative Nedzad Hodzic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5798	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Honored representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. It's already been said a lot about this law, I'm just going to say a few more principles on behalf of the club. Therefore, the National Minority Representatives' Club will support this Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Register of Councils, Council coordination and representatives of national minorities, with a final proposal in the form proposed by the Proposer. The proposed amendments and amendments are primarily accompanied by an improvement in the previous version of the law, which leaves certain doubts regarding the submission of applications for the re-registering of national minority councils. In addition, these amendments and additions define that the jurisdiction to monitor the legality of the Statute of the National Minorities Councils takes over the offices of the State Administration in the counties for which there is certainly a legal foothold, and in practice simplifies and speeds up the process of elections for the National Minority Council until the elected councils and representatives of national minorities are able to legally begin their work. Regulation of the content of the solution for the entry into the register of entities, as well as the arrangements for the setting of members of the coordination of national minority councils are to trace the simplification of procedures and the rounding up of the process of making the Registers of Councils, Council coordination and representatives of national minorities, and we want to believe everything with a view to in accordance with the provisions of Article 23. Constitutional law on the rights of national minorities preserves, advances and protects the position of members of national minorities in Croatian society. So, these amendments and additions will support but also take this opportunity to warn once again about the current practice of holding elections for the councils and representatives of national minorities, and their enrolment and start of action. Last elections held in the seventh month of 2011 were preceded by a great delay with the election date, which was eventually held in a rather inappropriate period of tourist season and vacations. When we add all the problems with the founding congregations, the adoption and verification of statutes and registrations to the register, we have a situation that has been almost a year, and in fact the councils and representatives are practically not working. In the previous elections in 2007, it was absolutely counter-constitutional and anti-constitutional practice that those citizens who are in the voters' lists as Muslims could vote for the council and representatives of the Bosniak national minority. Had it been for the assessment of the legality and constitutionality of these elections, there would have been absolutely a situation if such elections had been irregular and illegal. We don't want to believe that it is, but we can't get the impression that this problem is actually approaching rather sloppyly and not seriously. I hope it is not too hard to say that you are a serious state that Croatia must simply not allow. We therefore appeal to this occasion that in our country, the problems of members of national minorities are dealt with by full legal solutions both for councils and representatives of national minorities, but also for citizens' associations with a national omen. Because so far, the Association Act regulates that a national association of some kind can be called three people who register an association at local level which, in practice, brings a number of problems about it, about the question of who is, in fact, an official national minority. National minorities are simply the wealth and decorations of this country and the task and us members of the national minorities, as well as members of the dominant population, so Croatian society as a whole is that members of national minorities live integrated into all segments of our society, but also that they preserve their many specialities. As a practically new member of the European Union, we are obliged to provide this at both legislative and more important levels of practical life. We expect the other countries of the European Union as well as the other countries in the region in which we are de facto. So, we will support these changes, but we expect to find complete legal solutions in the future about minority problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5799	Thank you, colleagues, Hodzic and the National Minorities Club. Now we're moving on to a ten-minute hearing. The first for discussion was registered by the respected representative Jovo Vukovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5800	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with his associates. My colleagues, representatives of national minorities and the president of the club as well as the SDP lady said a lot about this law. I want to say a few sentences since I am a member of the largest national minority in the Republic of Croatia of the Serbian National Minority. Under number one, the Councils of National Minorities were chosen for the second time on 11.7 last year at a very inappropriate time, at the time of the annual holidays where very few people came out and where it was simply marginalized in a way that they would say keeps it going so how it goes. We are deeply hoping that this will not allow the Ministry of Administration to do so in future, next elections. Also, the Councils of National Minorities have witnessed so far discussions, so far have not been registered at all, have had a number of problems even calling for constitutive sessions. This law, which will also support the SDSS club in Article 2, says it is now being transferred to the counties. I fear there are not only some problems and obstructions in certain counties where there have been problems and with holding elections for the Council of National Minorities. I hope that the ministry will spend it all together and that it will simply manage it in some way. The Councils of National Minorities are designed to assist local and regional self-government where certain problems should be manifested by national minorities they have in their community and to help local self-government, regional self-government to get through and get over it as soon as possible and of course participate in all other matters within the limits of their powers and capabilities. However, very often because they are created only as ficuses and there are no coordinations. They were created to choose, to sort of end it, and it comes down to what counterpart Hodzic said, to that or Mr. Bilek that if he has co-ordination with the chief or mayor, then that's fine. If she doesn't have that council, it's practically like she doesn't exist. Since the Council of the Serbian National Minority has the most of course that we have the most problems. I personally think that this law, which, changes and these additions to the laws that we will support, is going on this trail to sort of overcome these certain things, since I agree that everything has its own paternity plight and thus these elections and the formation of the Council of National Minorities. But we also feel that we have to deal with it a little bit more. The turnout was 11%. It's below each level for the reason of the date of exit. The election that took place in the seventh month of last year was not registered until today, nothing was done, nothing was done. What do you say? Don't say anything, except we welcome that the amendments to this law have finally come to the Parliament's agenda. We want to believe that this will be addressed by the Ministry of Administration by a series of problems of the Council of National Minorities that we have and will try in every way possible. This is one part to overcome this now, because we're going to put together another year of elections that we haven't registered the council, that we haven't registered the coordination, and this is to welcome, but I say we have a number of problems, that simply, the minister said in the opening statement, and I hope that he and his team will do it, that we simply try these councils of national minorities not to really be fictitious, to participate in society, to participate in certain situations where they are elected, to improve their turnout, but we also have to expect the help of local and regional self-government and the Ministry of Administration. We will uphold this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5801	Thank you too, dear colleague Vukovic. We would now stop working and continue the meeting of the Parliament tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with a debate on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on, not. Where am I? Now we'll find it. We will begin the debate on the National Sports Council Report from 18 June 2010 to 31 December 2011. I'll see you tomorrow at 9.30. Every good until then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5802	We move to a statement on the final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Register of Councils, Council coordination and representatives of national minorities, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 52. The debate on the text of the law has been concluded, and amendments have been tabled by the Committee on Legislatives and by the representative of Peja Grbin. I'd like a statement from the government's representative. Mr. Zoran Piculjan, Deputy Minister of Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5803	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, the Government accepts both amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-03-15-0.u5804	Thank you very much. I am concluding the debate and voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get involved and vote. Thank you very much. I find that most votes, 96 votes in favour, 2 against and 5 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Register of the Council, the coordination of councils and representatives of national minorities in the text, as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted. Dear MPs and MPs, we continue and today we end with the 3rd session and continue with the point - Report of the National Sports Council from 18 June 2010 to 31 December 2011, Carrier – National Sports Council. Here's Mr. Mladen Novak, representative in the name of the club.
