ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20050	... MPs and MPs. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] The framework in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia moved when proposing amendments to the Law on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government was proposed was that in 2008 we passed laws under which mayors, mayors and mayors were elected directly to change the system in which the executive bodies of the local self-government and the mayors were elected in the councils and the assembly. It is not at any point when considering amendments to the law that provision, this principle is questioned. Although it was a little more than 2008 during the debate on committees when such an opinion could not be heard to a large extent, and even if it were heard it was treated as anti-democratic and that I do not now list other epithets, so maybe that way of choice is not the happiest either. But the framework in which we proposed amendments to the law was that no one questioned the direct choice of mayors, mayors and mayors. Another question that should also be asked and tried to answer is whether the current system, and in particular the relationship between mayors, mayors, mayors and representative bodies, is there a balance in the relationship between these two bodies and how do you fix what needs to be done? I think the answer to this question is the current relationship between the executive and the representative body in the units of local self-government is not good and should be changed. And now the question is, of course, what's wrong and how should we change it? There is one fama one such general opinion in which directly elected executive heads chosen by citizens are most often called local sheriffs. It is certainly certain that there may be a certain number of local self-government units who have justified this epithet by their behaviour, but the largest number of local self-government unit leaders because of this small number are also trying to put themselves in that group, although it really doesn't matter. After all, one of the mayors said it was not a matter of choice but of character and that there were such phenomena while the mayors were elected to the council. What should change the relationship between the council and the mayor? I will speak to the councils and mayors, and I mean the county assemblies and mayors, or the mayors and municipal councils. So, the first amendment we have proposed is that both the mayor and the council go to the elections in the event of a budget not being passed. So far, the provisions have been such that only the council will go to the elections, so the mayor who proposes the budget, unless the budget receives the required number of votes in the council, remains in office, and the council through which the Charter of Local Self-Government is carried out in accordance with the Constitution and the EU Charter of Local Self-Government goes to elections. There was created an imbalance by which the executive heads are the executive authorities, especially where most in the council are from other political options than the mayor being put in a position to blackmail the council with a budget, in such a way as to either not propose a budget or propose such a budget which is unacceptable to the majority of the council. If the Council submitted amendments to some of the leaders of the local self-government units, such a budget was withdrawn prior to the vote on amendments, thus provoking the disbanding of the councils. And at this point, so in 2012, we have a case, two or three, where the Commissioners themselves reported in alleged signs of budget failure by the representative bodies to provoke elections and to disband such a representative body. Why the budget? We believe that the budget is undoubtedly the most important political act of the unit of local self-government, that budgeting is a first-class political discrepancy between the political options involved in the executive government and which make up the majority of the representative body and that such first-class political disagreement of the two political entities should be resolved by citizens in the elections. And on political parties it is to convince citizens in the election campaign who is guilty or who is responsible for not adopting the budget. I believe that election costs are far less than the costs or damage that the local self-government unit and its citizens suffer by having two directly elected or by being more precise two bodies elected in the direct elections cannot agree on key projects, key things that are important for the local self-government unit and that this has escalated so far that neither the budget as a basic political act can primarily be brought by that unit of local self-government. The question has been raised whether the budget is the only place during the year in which early elections can be called to resolve political tensions. In a proposal that went to public debate in the 7th month, there was another instrument, which was that by political decision there were councils, there were mayors, that elections could be sought at any time. The council's decision is something similar to the Croatian Parliament's decision to disband, but there is no such decision in this proposal. So we held that once a year it is quite enough to either resolve it by the end of the year to avoid the elections because the elections are not a goal for themselves or if they can't get rid of one time-out of three months by making a decision on temporary financing, so one more time to resist them and if they can't decide to actually go to the elections. So at this point, we think that this is a sufficient mechanism as regards the frequency of the election and that this mechanism will affect the reasonable leaders of the executive authority or the above-average reasonable and also the above-average reasonable councillors, at least those who hold the upper hand, that these choices will not be too much, and that this is one mechanism that most in the council, if not from the same political option and the elected leader, are forced, motivated, motivated, approved for mutual cooperation. The second essential provision defining the powers of mayors and councils is that provision which, after the adoption of the laws and after the elections were carried out and after the constitution of the councils, had its own judicial epilogue because the law was not clear enough or was not defined by the authority of the appointment of the Assembly of companies, or the representative of the unit of local self-government in the congregations of companies and other institutions for which this special law was not laid down. We propose that the power to appoint, determine representatives if by other law, a special law is not prescribed to the executive authority. The decision also prompted certain reactions to significantly strengthen the role of mayors in relation to the council, making them immeasurable. We've also received an epithet of carrying out a new refugee of local self-government. We believe that these two provisions actually enable balance. So in the first provision we have proposed, which is that the de facto mayors are changing on the budget, the role of the council is strengthened in the control of the executive authority, so if the hardheads go to the elections, and this second provision allows for a more normal functioning of the executive power while it is the executive authority. When he no longer has that authority, he will have a new executive power. In that part, it is also possible to introduce a panel opinion mechanism or the obligation to publish in the official messenger of the unit of local self-government in order to make this process transparent, but the decision-maker must, in our opinion, be the head of the executive authority, because, for example, management of companies is no doubt part of the executive authority, and the control of the representative body is then carried out in the representative body, the debates at sessions and the adoption of certain conclusions. Of course, if this problem, then, let's say that such a staff problem is too often highlighted, it is very likely that this unit of local self-government would be very likely to end up in early elections. However, while someone had a responsibility, he must also have management mechanisms. The third provision that we have proposed and which has also caused certain recommendations is a proposal to delete two articles in the laws governing the referendum for the impeachment of the directly elected leader. According to the provisions so far and in practice so far, a total of four referenda have been held for the impeachment of the directly elected mayor and mayor and none have succeeded. So, as it is now in the law of this referendum, so this impeachment is de facto inconclusive so that it is i.e. enforceable but not giving the result desired so that by putting new articles out of force it wanted in fact to show in some way what is not right now. Is there a better way to call off the mayor and the mayor and whether there is some mechanism that can affect the mayor's and the mayor's impeachment during the term of office? So various ideas were heard on the boards as well. I believe that the most acceptable one is that in the event of a referendum being called, not the number of voters who go to the referendum should be prescribed, but the number of voters from the total number who should vote for the shift to succeed. In this way, the provisions of this current law would be a little tempered, and it would not be too liberalized to say that the process would not have come to another extreme from the fact that no referendum had succeeded, that the mayors and the chiefs of the shooting were every bit due to a referendum with too little censorship. So, is it maybe a third of the total number of voters that you have to vote yes, so if it's more for than it's going to be, then the referendum will succeed. So that's the thing we have to analyze until the second reading. We also suggested something similar, which is that when we arrived, so we also proposed to the Croatian Parliament for the state level, we suggest for the local level, which is that directly elected mayors have the right to choose the leaders who, therefore, would be part of their team to go and come with them. We also propose and better define a way of replacing mayors, mayors and mayors in case their term ends after two years of office, after two years of taking over, so that it can be done, that it is done by the deputy who was the first, if there are two who were the first on the list at the time of the election. If there's one, then that's the one. Of course, the question can be asked why after two years. That's a legitimate question. It would not be good if that provision were applied the first day after the election because knowing the creativity of political factors in the political arena could happen, so we have something called a rabbit in athletics. So someone's running then the next day let the deputy be mayor. We think that for two years, therefore, that this is more than half a term of office, when such abuse would not be, therefore, possible or not knowingly going into elections, knowing that after a short time, it would be left to someone else. What is not well defined in the law but what is not here in these changes is not sufficiently modified, but it will be, therefore, because to the most extent, the subject of yet another possible change is local self-government. So it is really good to ask what and what kind of local self - administration we want. We have different situations now. In some places there is a de facto local committee, not a municipal council, a key political place for the citizens of the local board, and in some cities and municipalities people do not experience serious local self-government. Therefore, they simply do not include themselves in the elections or in the work of local committees. It is also, of course, the most common thing, is smaller places, and this is about larger places that are also municipal centres, so simply citizens are not interested in local self-government. And of course we have, then we have cases that despite the existence of local committees in the Statute, mayors do not discuss election for local committees because they see it as a competition, as a cost and as an unnecessary decoration of democracy in their midst. And the sanctions aren't prescribed. However, here I am announcing that local self-government will be a particular topic of debate. It is also defined in a better way to convene extraordinary sessions. In fact, the extraordinary sessions usually require a parliamentary minority when it wants to discuss a topic, and the parliamentary majority does not want to put it on the agenda for a variety of reasons, mostly because the topic is uncomfortable or considered unnecessary, or when the parliamentary majority is changed, when the parliamentary minority becomes the majority and knowing that it will not be called by the council at that session. We now define exactly what is the procedure, what are the deadlines and within which the session must not only be called in, but also held. And yet another provision, which refers to the election of deputy chiefs, mayors and mayors in those units of local and regional self-government where members of national minorities exercise the right under the Constitutional Law, the right to represent themselves in the executive authority and representative bodies under the provisions of the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities and the analogous application where members of the Croatian people exercise the right to participate in the executive and representative body because they are therefore members of other peoples in the majority. We suggest that the election of deputy chiefs is therefore carried out on the same day as the elections, the regular local elections. And in such a way that the election of deputy chiefs of national minorities, namely the order of the Croatian people where it is prescribed, requires a relative majority, to be conducted in one round, so on the same day and in the same polling places where regular local elections are held. We believe that this will therefore contribute to a better representation of national minorities, that members of national minorities in executive bodies will have their legitimate political representatives and in some ways be saved because a large number of additional elections have been called during the last term, which for the executive bodies, which for the representative bodies. Finally, we propose these amendments to the law with a desire to make a better balance between representative bodies and executive bodies. As far as labour transparency is concerned, the draft Law on the right to access information will also come to Parliament soon, where there is also a significant increase in transparency of the work of all authorities of the state administration and so on the units of local self-government. We propose these changes without having a specific picture in front of our eyes, a specific name, a concrete parliamentary majority and a concrete parliamentary minority because they come into force after this provision on the relations between the councils and the chiefs after the elections, we do not have in front of Zagreb or any other unit of local self-government because if we had done so before, and not after the election. We therefore hold that these amendments and, of course, with certain repairs between the two readings will contribute to better co-operation between the council and the commissioners, will either force them to cooperate or allow citizens to decide who is right between the two political options. Given the number of representatives and clubs reported, given the public's interest, given the duration of the public debate and the number of public debate participants, I think this is therefore a very important political issue, that it is good to discuss it in detail and to bring it in, another reading, so until the end of this session so that political factors know which propositions they will work on for the next 4 years. Not so much in election proposition because they no longer change more or less than when someone is running and winning the elections to know what that victory meant and, of course, when someone achieves a parliamentary majority, and there is no chief to know what his responsibilities are, what his rights are, and his duties are all the same. So, to work so that citizens are better off, of course. In the next election, citizens will assess how much those who have gained their trust have justified it. On some other changes, I believe there will be time during the debate. Here, therefore, I suggest that the Croatian Parliament accept the bill and instruct it to the government to prepare for a second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20051	Do the work-body reporters want to? Yeah. ... And, I apologize, Your Honor, we have three reports reported for the presentation of the Honorable Minister Arsen Bauk. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's get this straight. The first is the replica of respected representative Ante Kulusic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20052	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Since it's about amending the law, I think Minister Bauk is about Drnish, about Drnish's example that this law should be introduced, I know in advance that the minister will say that everything is by law. As the mayor Drniša is well known, unfortunately died at the 10th month, and neither are we as HDZ to do the costs 6 months before the election, but the law must be respected, the elections must be held. However, in the city of Drnis, which has no head, the government will call the elections from 30 to 60 days. It will normally be discussed in the 58th day and will be re-scheduled on 30 to 60 days again in the 58th day and we will have elections in Drnis at the 2nd month of extraordinary and regular in the 5th month. And to make the tragedy worse was in the government, the elections were supposed to be in the 11th month so it was removed from the government because in the meantime, the independent mayor went to HNS so that you ministers in Drnis would allow HNS to be three times in power, first and last and never again. The city of Drniš is unfortunately not working and it would be good if the government suggested that elections be held as soon as possible, and I know the answer in advance that everything is by law and everything is really by law, but it is not normal for the elections to be in the 2nd month and 5th when they can be at 11. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20053	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Josip Boric. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20054	Thank you very much, Your Honor. So here's listening to the distinguished minister's careful statement. I can't help but think that for the second time in a year in the same law, the current government is trying to adapt the same law to itself in a way that makes a mockery of local democracy. The first time we had it last year was when the government was formed through a famous law known in public as lex Komadin when you allowed directly elected leaders to become officials and their mandates to continue their deputies. So there was a situation where a mayor, based on such a law, became the director of a public firm, and his mandate continued as deputy mayor. It's mocking democracy. And now, you are now allowing political corruption to bring one document within local or regional self-government in such a way that councilors get so much importance to you that they can undo the legal choice of citizens of a particular administrative or regional administration. And you explain it to us in a strange way, but I'm going to have a debate today, so I'm going to talk about it more widely. And I can't help thinking that we are here now trying Kunić on the failed authority that the SDP behaves here in the city of Zagreb and that you took the city of Zagreb so that we and some other local self-governments in the entire area of the Republic of Croatia would change the electoral system and I say again, and that impression is clear and clear, instability of local authorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20055	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20056	I thought the minister would respond individually to the replicas, but here's one related to this exhibition which is why the referendums didn't work. As I recall, there were several examples, but no referendum was encouraged by the citizens, but it was the municipal or city councils that should look for a reason why the referendum failed, given that those seeking a referendum were in the minority and the number of votes in the local elections themselves. As for this statement about local sheriffs, local powers, I was called by HDZ comrades Napoleon, Rameses 2, Stalin, Hitler, I don't know all the names and managed to replace me only once in 12 years when a member of the SDP sold himself and for the money he got from I don't know what funds. So that's a fact, and this law will make that political trade possible again. So this is what is fundamentally lacking in this law and fortunately that this is the first reading and should indeed be carefully listened to this debate and commended for opening a public debate during the 7th month. Some have been on vacations, some have worked in their local self-government, and it is extremely important that citizens who choose local self-government leaders participate in their shift, not minorities in representative bodies because the only goal of the minority, or the majority, depends on what proportions they are, will be to destroy the directly elected head of local self-government. However, they are directly elected in the direct elections only belong and do what the big parties or small parties tell them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20057	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, the Honorable Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20058	To the replicas. So as far as I'm concerned.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20059	Your Honor, there is no accumulation of time, if you will.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20060	Okay, I'll be very brief, so as far as the issue of Drniš's election is concerned, what Mr. Kulusic said will be called a legitimate election campaign. You will convince the citizens that it is good, that it is bad actually that the elections are called then, another political option will convince that it is good and the citizens will judge who is right. As for the remarks that one councilman is allowed to annul the electoral will of citizens, I have interpreted it well, and so far it has allowed the mayor to cancel the election will of the citizens so that the council is sent to the elections if he does not bring the budget. It is the same annulment of the electoral will of citizens and of course it is only a matter of balance now, so whether it is the right of the mayor to be legitimate, and the right of the council is not legitimate. We can discuss that. We believe that this provision balances the councils and mayors, but certainly it is not such that it is solid, cemented, unchangeable and the only and absolute truth. Maybe there's a better way and we can probably agree, and if there's a better way, we'll definitely support it. But we haven't found him yet. As for the referendum and the failure, most of the referendum that was, was at the citizens' request. I think there's only one piece at the request of the council without the citizens' signature. That just came out the least, that's right. But here where citizens signed the request and there was a referendum called more than these others, but still not enough to say that in one case the citizens had collected the signatures, and the council had not called a referendum. Now, in that part, we sanction the council if it doesn't, so it's another provision that increases the possibility of participating citizens in a referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20061	Thank you very much. And now respected representative Furio Radin on behalf of and as chairman of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20062	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In accordance with the rules of procedure set out in the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, the Committee has specifically examined the provisions relating to the exercise of constitutionally guaranteed citizens' right to local and regional (regional) self-government and the constitutional law guaranteeing the right of members of national minorities to participate in the management of local affairs. In this regard, the issue of Article 15 of the Law, which proposes the selection of Articles 40b and 40c, is specifically raised, i.e. the amendment of that article in the applicable law. Those articles shall provide for the discharge of the municipal head, mayor, or mayor and their deputy by means of a referendum which may be discussed by the representative body on its own initiative when it mentions the holder of executive functions in the self-government unit infringing or failing to carry out decisions by the representative body or where they result in significant material damage by their work. The provisions mentioned above also provide for the possibility that citizens, voters, have the right to propose a referendum to the representative body on the matter of resolution of the municipal chief, mayor, or mayor and their deputies. With regard to the reason for the applicant that eradicating those articles from the law is proposed because the Institute of Resolution through referendums has not shown in practice an adequate way, and this also confirms that in the past four years since that institute has not been implemented in the law, no resolution has been made. The debate highlighted the need for further further consideration in the preparation of the final draft law. When it comes to the rights of national minorities governed by the proposed law in the debate, particular attention was paid to provisions defining the functions of deputy municipal mayor, mayor, or mayor of the national minority. In particular, Article 16 of the Law states that a deputy member of national minorities cannot become a deputy acting as municipal mayor, mayor, or mayor, while Article 18 contains a provision under which the elected deputy is a representative of the national minority in the executive body. It has been assessed that these provisions do not make it quite clear that a deputy who is a member of a national minority is a member of the national minority, i.e. that those provisions could be interpreted as being a substitute which is merely nominal, but essentially without any function which could not be the meaning of applying the principle of positive discrimination by virtue of which the right of national minorities or Croatian people is introduced in constitutional law where it constitutes a numerical minority to representation in the executive body, i.e. the right to elect a deputy municipal chief, mayor and mayor. It is therefore proposed that, in the course of the preparation of the final draft law, the provisions governing this issue, of course, in a positive way, so that the deputy members of the national minority have the exact same rights as the other deputies because otherwise their function is actually a function of the second and third order. Finally, after the debate was held, the Committee decided, by majority, to propose to the Croatian Parliament, to reach the following conclusion: The amendment law and the amendments of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, i.e. the position as you now see and the proposals and opinions presented in the debate, are being adopted to the Proposer in order to prepare the final draft law and to report to the public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20063	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zoran Vinkovic as chairman of the Committee on Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20064	Thank you, Mr. President. The Committee for Local and Regional Self-Government under the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal in question as a home working body. In the introduction of the proposal, he pointed out that this bill provides otherwise for the grounds for disbanding the representative body, the introduction of a representative body at the same time, the executive body, the resolution of the municipal chief, mayor, mayor and a number of other amendments and additions aimed at greater efficiency in the performance of local self-government activities and clearer determination of their rights, obligations and responsibilities. In the discussion of the members of the Committee, it is agreed that there are provisions in this proposal of the law that need to be fully amended until the second reading, provisions which need to be significantly completed. The Committee stressed that these are provisions that are prescribed at the same time the disbanding of the representative body and the resolution of the municipal chief, mayor, or mayor and their deputy mayors, unless a budget is adopted within the specified deadline, as those provisions will cause the crisis of the authorities, i.e. frequent discharges and new elections in the units of local and regional self-government. I believe it is necessary to return the deleted provisions on a referendum to which a representative body or part of the voter may request the removal of elected leaders and to define that provision in a way that allows for its application in practice which has not been the case so far. There are also doubts about the provisions that are prescribed that regardless of what kind of unit of local self-government is intended for the municipal mayor, mayor, mayor and their deputies to decide whether or not the duty they are elected to perform professionally or voluntarily, and doubts about the provisions for the replacement of the appointment of the head of directors at any change of the executive authority in the units of local and regional self-government. It is good that this bill empowers the executive heads to appoint and resolve representatives of local self-government in bodies of public institutions, companies and other legal entities. After the debate was held, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion, to adopt the Amendments and Supplements Act on Local and Regional Self-Government, and all objections, proposals and opinions submitted in the debate will be addressed to the Proposer for the final draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20065	Thank you, too. And a respected representative of Peja Grbin on behalf of and as chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20066	On 13 November 2012, the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System discussed the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government at its 20th session, and after a debate in which most Committee members expressed their agreement with the proposed law unanimously supported the adoption of this Act. However, some remarks have been raised in the debate, asking the applicant to consider them and possibly include them in the final draft of the law until the second reading. In particular, the question of the local referendum, or the way it will be called, and the way it will be controlled, has been discussed. Issues have been raised on vice-presidents of the City Council, on how they are proposed, on issues of futility or illegality of the sessions and decisions taken at such sessions, etc. However, the biggest debate, of course, as in the case of other committees, was on the subject of a referendum, i.e. the possibility of a citizens' initiative to recall mayors, mayors or mayors. In this direction, most board members expressed their dissatisfaction with the removal of the provisions of Articles 40b, 40c. the current text of the law and it is proposed to consider the possibility of returning the referendum to the mayor's recall because we believe that citizens must also be given the possibility that if they are not satisfied with those who represent them they can do something to resolve them. The fact that up until now, the referendums have failed does not mean that we have to remove them as a possibility. In fact, the very option of having such an opportunity to be replaced if citizens are not satisfied with the work of that person means that this person will at least have to take care of what he is doing and we hope that the very option of this referendum will be greater. Also, in the debate before the committee, colleagues pointed to the following. That the Institute of Direct Elections of Mayors, Commissioners or Mayors in practice did not show itself as good as it seemed at the time of its introduction and was asked to be implemented after some more time, because it is obvious that we are staying with the Institute to take action to evaluate the success of the system. And what he brought us compared to the system that existed before in the Republic of Croatia, which is the system in which we elected mayors, mayors and mayors in the councils. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20067	Thank you, Your Honor. And finally respected representative Ingrid Antičević Marinovic as chairman of the Committee on Legislatives. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20068	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Legislatives also discussed at its 29th session on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government and on the Proposal for a Law on Local Elections and brought together a debate on both these drafts of the law. Compared to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Region (regional) Self-Government but before I say that the Committee supports the adoption of both drafts of the law, putting it on the stand that it is good that these proposals of the law seek to balance and control the power and self-control between the mayors, mayors, mayors and the municipal, city council or assembly. As regards the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government, in relation to Article 2 of the Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government, The Committee noted that certain words are not technically harmonised so that we have one clarity from our point of view and from our application which is particularly necessary in these draft laws. As well as the provisions of Article 7. As regards the provision of Article 10, it is pointed out that the subject of the provisions of Article 35a is the subject of the regulation of the provisions of Article 35a. The law rights of members of the representative body to ask questions to the municipal chief and mayor, and this new one that candidates have the right to insight the electoral list, which is particularly highlighted as a good new one, to find one special place in the law. In relation to Articles 15 and 16 as well as 19, nomotechnically, it is proposed to improve the proposal itself a little bit for the sake of the uniqueness of expression but also for the clarity that comes after application. In accordance with Article 21 of the provision of paragraph 4 of the article in question amending the provision of Article 48(2) of the Law, it should also be specified in order to remove the possibility of avoiding the application of this provision in relation to legal facilities which have been authorised by the executive body of the unit of local or regional self-government. In this regard, it points to the valid solutions prescribed by the Public Procurement Act, and in particular to the Committee's attention, I say of this whole provision of Article 21 in order to make it impossible to legally set things up so as to narrow down as much as possible and the thought of corrupt action as possible. In relation to Article 22, it is proposed to review the provision of Article 53a of the Law in the section relating to the termination of the term of office of the head of director in the administrative bodies of the unit of local, regional self-government. Here is the special Mr. Minister speaking on behalf of the Government and presenting this law specifically pointed out that they are political figures that come with the head of local self-government units and then leave. However, those provisions go away from these positions, but it should certainly be reconsidered and this possibility of survival in general in the administration especially because our municipal administrations, urban and countyal are already overcrowded and this should be taken into account because all those who are already in the administration have come on the basis of the competition. So let's think about this. I know that, and we know and we are aware all together, that it is very difficult in the municipality, one small municipality that works well, but therefore find a quality person who is willing to do so, to make his experience available in his municipality or in his town, and yet he puts himself at risk with all the good work to lose his job after that. However, we may find some happy solution. In relation to Article 45, 46, 48, as well as the last provision in Article 58, it is also proposed to no-technically regulate the law in relation to the proposal for a Law on Local Elections, in relation to the provision of Article 28, it is proposed to supplement the provision in a way which would provide for both the resulting and sanctioning failure of the candidate to show about the application. In fact, it is the provision where one candidate can be on two lists that the competent authority will call on him to show which list he remains on, but certainly if he deafens that we need to find a solution whether to stay on one list either way or to delete it from both lists. Thus, in any case, the consequences of such a non-compliance with his deafness should be sanctioned, i.e. to find the consequences of such conduct. Compared to Article 41, it is of nomotechnical nature, and then it is proposed to be arranged. And in relation to Article 42, it is necessary to clarify this because it is quite clear that the applicant's intensity is that the possibility is also that strengthening and plurality of different political options, especially in the smaller environments there is expression and through the control of that political party, control of the electoral process itself, which we certainly welcome. However, in any case, it should be clarified and specified a provision where such opportunities exist, where parties go out on their own or in certain coalitions that it is then the right, duty and responsibility of that level, whether of a municipality or a city without intervention of a higher body, even political options. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20069	Thank you, too. Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues, I would like to give you a proposal for a work plan for today's meeting of the Croatian Parliament. We started with a proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government, then we will continue with the proposal of the Law on Local Elections and we will conclude with the proposal of the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework today. I suggest we work without a break, without a break, because only for this law that I will now open the debate is reported by 23 MPs and 9 clubs. In other words, a net debate is six hours. Also, the next law has been reported somewhere for five hours, so I think it would be wise to work without a break, if you don't mind. I'm assessing that you don't have any, so I'm going to open a debate now on the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government. That's it now. We are going to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The first club of MPs to apply is the IDS club and the respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20070	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Representatives. This law is not a revolution, but I think it is a good revolution and it should not lead to a destabilization of local self-government, but I agree with what some MPs have mentioned, and this is Article 2 where, among other things, in paragraph 2, 3. says that if the opening of a referendum has been proposed by at least one third of the members of the representative body, or if the opening of a referendum has been proposed by the mayor, mayor, if the opening of the referendum has been proposed by the majority of the councils of local committees, i.e. city quarters or city halls in the area of the municipality and the city, i.e. the City of Zagreb, the representative body is obliged to declare itself on the proposed and if the proposal adopts a decision to call the referendums within 30 days" etc., etc. Of course, that's pretty brave. I'm always gonna get the position of the representative body as stronger as possible. However, there can be unscrupulous coalitions, irresponsible coalitions, malignant coalitions, coalitions between people affected by vanity, losers in local elections, and they can be the ones who will attempt consciously to destabilise local self-government even though they will go to elections at that time. Such cases will be so that the threshold or a better decision to issue a referendum on which a referendum will be called would raise them to a two-thirds majority not qualified but to a two-thirds majority. Now we need to see if that's possible, let's think about that proposal. In Parliament, some laws, for example. Constitutional law, constitution clearly, laws on minority rights, etc. We regularly adopt the two-thirds majority. Clearly by a two-thirds majority, as far as I am aware, not a single act, statute, etc. is not adopted when it comes to local self-government but the proposed qualified majority or ordinary even the majority in this case is a thin majority and could indeed destabilise local self-government, create problems, impose new costs rather than destroy, rather than change, collapse, rather than improve. As regards this second paragraph, if the referendum has been called up by 20% of the total number of voters in the unit, etc. I think it's okay. I said, I've always been, I'll always be to strengthen the role of a representative body. This law is certainly important, although when it comes to local and regional (regional) self-government, I think it would be crucial to finance local self-government. redistribution of financial powers, on the one hand, between state and local self-government and powers. When this happens, it remains to be seen but I want to believe that by the end of this term these fiscal capacity units of local self-government will certainly change for the better. What financial opportunities the state is on, we all know that. It will not be an easy bite, de facto investment is financed through those extra budget funds, e.g. Through Croatian roads, highways are in bananas, through HEP what I know, through Croatian waters, through several state-owned companies, etc., etc. And as the financial force of local self-government seems, there are a lot of mayors here, a lot of mayors know it far better than me and those who are not in the position of that executive government. but the fact that today local self-government is running somewhere with approximately 16% of that financial capacity, the country 84, of which in the county is about 2%, cities, municipalities together about 8%, in the City of Zagreb somewhere around 5%. So it would be better to talk about funding units of local self-government than this law, but the fact that this law is very important and that we cannot marginalise it. What to say is that the capacities of general hospitals are generally not double or triple the budget of certain counties and there should be the same thing to do. Either to be taken over by the state or to take over all units of local self-government in the area of one county. But let's let it go is not the point or not the subject of this law. Here in this law is spoken of as taking over the mayor's office, the mayor by their deputy ok. This is about a referendum, I said I was already talking about it between the other and that citizen 20% of the total number of voters, I think that's okay. This is about an advisory referendum, convening congregations, councils, etc. e.g. the selection of leaders from the minority community, about it a little later, etc., etc. But I have this one fundamental remark. It's the gentlemen of the government's article 5, that's that immunity. "A member of the representative body cannot be called upon to be held liable, detained or punished for an opinion expressed and voting on the representative body", a definition that has been decidedly prescribed from the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia from our Rules of Procedure. But let's not play with such a single formulation. For four years, I've been running a dispute with a public institution because I've been saying what I said here from this pay phone for four years, I've been running a dispute. They're not suing me for criminal responsibility. They're suing me for damages. These disputes cost money, time, nerves. In my case, the value of the increase has already risen to over two hundred thousand kuna, for one sentence I repeat the sentence spoken for this pay phone. With tight interest, I don't even know how much it is anymore, with litigation costs and stuff. On the one hand, you have an institution that has billions of kuna, on the other hand, you're an individual. I therefore think that this civil liability for damages should stand. Let's not play games because everything is just going to happen in cca 600 which municipalities, which cities, which county. But not to forget that, Countys are local self-government units. Once before 2000, if I'm not mistaken, the state administrations were. So that mayor is an exponent and local self-government, so citizens, citizens pick him, then they pick him over the list and the government was then, so she had to or the president of the state to confirm him. Countys are now exclusively local self-government units. It doesn't make sense that the mayors, that the mayors can be representatives, that the mayors can't be representatives. We have a case here in Split, unfortunately there is no Keruma who is a representative, which has three times the budget capacity if you add to it municipal companies than the capacities of the financial Split-Dalmatia County. Or once a gentleman... as mayor of Rijeka was also a representative. The city of Rijeka certainly has three times the budgetary or municipal capacity, the financial capacity of the Primorje-Gorski County. The same situation, the mayor of Pula, for example, Mr. Boris Miletic was a representative, a city with 65,000 inhabitants has twice the financial fiscal capacity, when we look at municipal companies, perhaps triple the county of Istria. And my proposal would be that until the next parliamentary elections in Parliament all and the mayors, mayors, mayors, mayors, and then no one can participate. Everything else I think is not a fair solution, but some of my ambitions don't recognize it. As regards Article 16 If the Chief's office ceases two years ago, the elections will be held and vice presidents will act after two years. A member of that I think is one principle that began to apply during last year, let it remain, there's no reason to touch it. Article 18, in units of local, regional and regional self-government in which the Deputy Mayor, Mayor, or Mayor of the National Minority Order or the Order of the Croatian People is elected according to the law which determines the selection of the Executive Body, the number of deputies is increasing by 1 which is fine, but later I will talk about the Law on Local Elections, the way it is done or in particular in Istria means we would now have 3 Deputy Mayors, 3 Deputys, e.g. Mayor Pula, Mayor Rovinj, in Rijeka, the same situation is, in a wide range of other cities. Article 22 concerns the head, whether the old ones go according to this law, they should mean mandates on the table, are named new in 4 years, for every quality there will be seats, logically, whoever comes with the program, comes with his people, comes to take responsibility. The old can stay, but I can go and let those who have come or who will come tomorrow follow the chosen fate. Clearly, everyone who comes here is the politicians responsible for this or that, but when they need to put a mandate on the table then they become worthy experts. And yet I say the good shall remain, fear not. The referendum might be interesting but how to translate into that text. If the mayor is elected with the 50% +1 vote, 50% of the people in Croatia usually go to the polls, it is chosen by 25% of the total number of voters and then should go to the referendum if people are more than 25% of the number he received is not trusted by him. So if someone in one city with 10,000 residents got 3128 votes, if 3129 votes against him then understandably they have to leave, elections go, etc. As far as these solutions are concerned about minority norms, I think it's more or less correct, all in all it's one step, I said the law is not a revolution, evolution, new solutions had to fill those gaps that life has found or brought, but the deputy mayor, mayor, mayor of the minority representatives' ranks are elected directly. It's not in this law, it's in this package, it's in the law on these local self-governments. Whether we separate these people, we think that the existing solution was not bad, in some ways their representation was guaranteed by constitutional law. I wouldn't say this would violate the stability of local self-government, but it can sort of divide power, but I don't mind, I absolutely don't mind. And what is certainly good, that the law here today came before the MPs and that it goes into another reading and that it is likely that the Government will accept and put those good suggestions into the proposal in the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20071	Thank you very much. We have two replicas on your exhibit. The first replica is the respected representative of Josip Boric. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20072	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I have to rephrase to my esteemed colleague, Caina, because I listened carefully to him, and his biggest concern became why the mayors couldn't remain parliamentary representatives, or if he was going to be a parliamentary representative, then he couldn't be mayor. Somehow, it seems to me that Mr. Cain has been very ambitious lately. In 2010, he wanted to become president of the Republic of Croatia, and all over Croatia he yelled after me comrades! Then in 2011, he wanted to be a pensioner for one day, so he told the whole public I'm not a stupido. Now I hear he wants to be mayor, which is legitimate. All I hear is that he wants to be under someone else's flag. If he can't get under his flag, he means under the IDS flag, and that's called Mr. Cain's gangwalking in Istria. I'm afraid in 2012, Mr. Cain made you a gangwalker. And with a law like this you'll probably vote for, I can see that you will, that you'll be mayor for maybe only six months. After that, you will be replaced by the majority of whom, I say, you will not have in the County Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20073	Thank you, too. Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20074	Damir Cain was almost all the IDS lists he wore and Damir Cain was never walking the bandits, but Damir Cain is fighting for some values that are now and in this party are simply being violated. The bandit walks should be seen on this side, because we saw what happened after Mrs. Kosor fell into awe. Almost the whole club that was chosen by her will turned its back on her. But when I talk about whether the mayor should be a representative or not, it's absolutely not a problem for me. I made it clear that there should be no mayors or mayors in this body and that they should not even be municipal chiefs. It would be only fair as the parliamentary representatives should not run on lists for municipal, city, or other councils. If anyone goes to that election, then let them back out of it. But for everything equally or by no means for anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20075	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20076	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, colleague Cain, in your hearing, I noticed a claim that I agree with in principle. You said it would be better to talk here about funding local self-government and the problems with finances in local self-government. I agree with you, with that claim. But I want to tell you, but then you're offering a magical solution. I want to believe that's how it's gonna be. Local self-government has major problems with funding mainly after the Income Tax Act, where around 300 million kunas were taken, has been taken up by local self-government, and many obligations have been imposed on local self-government, not to mention social welfare alone. We are now preparing the budgets and this item for social needs is extremely large and each of us has to think about these circumstances. But then you're offering a solution. You say I want to believe. Well, you can't just believe it. You're the government, you have to pull your colleagues out of the coalition and say, come on, let's go change that. If it's not going, then tell me once I'm going, my friend. That's how you do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20077	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20078	Not that I want to believe, but I know a lot will change when it comes to local self-government. Normally, before this could change, you need to fix what's behind you. It won't be easy and it'll take time. But if that local self-government were to decentralize, it could certainly go faster and easier. And that is why I want to believe that the amendments to the Law on the financing of local self-government will happen relatively soon and that this country will profit from it too.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20079	Thank you very much. No more replicas. And now it is up to the respected representative Dragutin Lesar and the Croatian Labour Club in the Croatian Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20080	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Minister. We continue to discuss part of the law package that regulates election processes in the Republic of Croatia, in this particular case for local and regional self-government. When we discussed that Law on residence, I stressed about the register of voters that we would see the whole of the electoral model that through the laws in this House we would adopt is missing and changes in the Electoral Law, about this law that regulates the constitution and relationship of leaders and representative bodies, and there are two other laws missing to have a whole. Funding of electoral activities, political activities and election promotions that I know is on reading or checking in the European Commission and another law that answers a series of dilemmas read both laws is the Law on a referendum that we did not adopt after constitutional changes, and we had to now have a situation where there is no such referendum law in the first reading and then it is difficult to see the whole of the model offered. I will continue my debate with two objections first, then several proposals from the Minister who expressed great readiness to listen to these proposals and to the Committee on the Constitution today when proposing this Law. So, the first grudge refers to the teaming, for the moment when we are discussing these laws in this House. It is indeed the last moment for the Parliament to adopt these amendments and supplement and I want to believe that the second reading and adoption of the law will be carried out before the calendar end of this year to enter the election year with a full legislative regulation that regulates local elections. And secondly, this is if I'm not mistaken for the sixth amendment to this law. We have 58 amendments and additions on a hundred articles of the law. They may not matter as much, but they are quantitatively, because we have a problem with the fact that, unfortunately, we have stopped applying the practice to make and publish the consolidated text of the law after the third amendment and the addition of the Parliamentary Committee on Law. And then the citizens of this country use copyrighted consolidated texts so that they can comply with laws that are not good practice. In particular, the laws governing part of human civil rights, electoral rights and such frequent and large number of amendments and additions to the law instead of new laws create certain legal uncertainty. And that would have made it far more quality if the ministry, or the government, had proposed a new text of the law to make it easier to read the whole. But obviously there are no more business opportunities for this now, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, and I appeal to you to see if through the Legislative Committee, the publication of such consolidated texts as a practice that existed in its own time can continue because it is indeed important laws. Not just with this one, but with others who have been changed so far. Specific proposals that I believe the minister will closely monitor until the second reading see the possibility of being incorporated into the law. First, the recall of the local and regional self-government leaders by citizens must remain in the law. I'm in favour of the Croatian Labour Club, and we're in favour of having a special recall institute in place, so we're not calling it a referendum, but to arrange it as a special recall institute in this law. The more the law on the new referendums, the more we don't have. The experience so far on only if I am not mistaken for the 4 referendum in which none has succeeded must be an argument for us to give up on that institute because they have failed because of the provision of the referendum law that it is only valid if most of the voters enrolled come to it. Even in local elections in the largest number of municipalities, cities and county turnout in the elections is not more than 50% and then we have a referendum law in order to succeed the impeachment needs an turnout greater than 50%. And that's why there were no more such demands, and where he was and was not successful because of that clause in the referendum law. If you accept the proposal as a special institution recalls then turnout should not be prescribed by law, and I agree that the validity of the decision could be offered as a solution one-third of the total number of voters. So 33, one third is better said than 33%. In this way we would achieve that we have the possibility to question where turnout is not important, but that the decision cannot be made because when one third of the total number of voters calculates on turnout, then the majority is somewhere around 60% of those who come out might be. Secondly, Article 2 of the Law on local referendums, therefore not on impeachment but on regular local referendums. Two grudges and two suggestions. The number of citizens seeking a local referendum is 20%. Why do we have 20 when we have 10% on the state level? So it's not possible to go with a larger... clause in municipalities, cities and counties that have 50 times less powers than the Government or the Parliament. I think we should study that clause carefully, too, and reduce the percentage. But what's particularly important is the order of action prescribed in this law is not good again. In fact, citizens first formulate a referendum issue, then go to collect signatures, then address a representative body that is then required by this bill by the Central Authority of the State Administration to read and determine whether the referendum issue is in accordance with the law. Conversely, citizens are given consent during the call for a referendum with a referendum on a referendum issue to the competent national authority, to obtain confirmation that the referendum issue from the authority's local or regional self-government, that it is legal, and then joins the collection of signatures. Where they collect a sufficient number of signatures, the representative body shall call and carry out a referendum, point. With this game that the confirmation of the legality of the referendum issue again we will have the situation that practically no referendum will be held because the Central Authority will always find some error in the formulation, and the citizens have already carried out the process of showing interest. We must enable them when they go into the signing process to be sure that the referendum's initiators well formulated the referendum issue and the request they're asking. Then such a local referendum called for by the citizens makes sense. Thirdly, in Article 16, we will find it difficult to support the solution that, after two years of the term of office, the leader may replace his deputy, however justified, by avoiding extraordinary or special elections, and we believe that this right should only belong if it occurs in the calendar year in which regular elections are held. The citizens in the election elect leaders, it is true that citizens know who their deputies are during the election, but it is unknown what powers such a elected leader will pass on to his deputies because he is the only one with original powers and can decide to transfer any authority to any deputy so long as he is in office. So we have deputies who are ficuses, who have no authority whatsoever, and we have those smart ones who have shared part of the responsibility part of the job and transferred some of their powers to their deputies. Next around the authority of the leader to appoint on behalf of units of local, regional self-government representatives to the administrative bodies of public institutions, companies and other legal entities. I would ask you to think carefully here and possibly separate the issue of such really great powers when it comes to public institutions and companies and these other legal entities, and I don't know what else it might apply to if we had public institutions and companies, because then it would be clearer, for example, to a municipal enterprise or where the municipality, city or county is just one of the co-owners. So it doesn't matter if it's a municipal, city or county enterprise or an institution or where co-ownership is concerned, so there's someone else represented there with that local or regional self-government. Article 28 of the Rules of Procedure of the Local Committees shall be in the jurisdiction of the representative body, not the head, because the main opponents of local self-government and the calling of those elections are the leaders, the mayors and the mayors, and they are the ones who have most often prevented the development of local self-government by non-registration. Let's do this in the jurisdiction of the representative body because the issue of further development of local self-government is particularly important where citizens are interested. The truth is that in major cities such an interest is less in the smaller community councils of local committees have proved to be a good model for the development of local self-government. Article 47 of the resolution of one and the other if they don't bring the budget, so it's that clause they both fell. Now does it matter whether the representative body has not adopted the budget because it has rejected the mayor's proposal, the mayor or the mayor's or he has not proposed the budget at all? So we have the possibility that the draft budget was but the representative body refuses to accept it. But we have experience situations that really happened that the draft budget before the representative body didn't even come and that's why it couldn't be brought, and the only authorised proposer under the Budget Law is the principal municipalities, mayor and mayor, only they can propose. The Council cannot just make and propose a budget. There are two moments, two important differences why the adoption of the budget didn't take place, and I think two mechanisms of responsibility in the law should then have. Article 51 provides for an update that has not yet been made. So far, local self-government leaders are up to 10,000 people, if I'm not mistaken, they could choose whether to be professionals or volunteers. This article now provides that both the head of the municipality and its deputies, the mayor and his deputies and the mayor and his deputies decide whether they will be volunteers or professionals. And well, is the mayor something casual, something that's a hobby, an added job that can be done by volunteering? Is the mayor of the city with 200,000 inhabitants something that's a matter of free time? I'm not sure Minister, this is a good solution, and I'm not sure it's good, and we're going to have a very strange situation here, very strange. And I'm finishing up the following, there was indeed a large number of those who declared mayors, mayors and mayors to be local sheriffs in general. No one was good. They're all local thugs. And it's really a matter of character, not an election model. No matter who you choose if he's like that, he'll act like one. And in order to get a performance assessment or test some electoral model system, colleague Baranovic, I ask you to allow the minister to hear, I address him. So in order to assess whether it is good or bad and what needs to be fixed radically, I have to have at least three election cycles. And that's why I'm saying that we don't easily reject a direct choice until we analyze the third election cycle. The Law on Referendum, the Law on the financing of political activities and its amendments and election promotions by the end of the calendar year to enter next year with well-known models of choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20081	Thank you, too. Two replicas have been reported for your presentation. The first is the replica of respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20082	The esteemed colleague, Lesar, is the management that these two laws should be followed by this referendum law, but not in this way, since the existing referendum law does not apply to the replacement of the directly elected head of local self-government, which is also an integral part of that Law on referendum, certainly also the Law on the financing of election promotion. However, you miss that one very important law is the Law on the financing of local self-government. As since 1993, units of local and regional self-government have been given more and more powers which have not been followed by decentralisation, the financial resources under these powers are largely committed. The other thing you said here is this professional or volunteering for that job. I believe that everyone who is directly elected I don't primarily think about these exceptions that are present in Croatia but that professionalism in this case primarily refers to receiving a personal income or remuneration. The rights and duties of MPs, among other things, say that each MP has the right to pay for his work, so he gets it from the state budget. So I don't see that difference between professionals and volunteers and I don't see who's so smart of these local self-government leaders that from the city budget, municipal or county future he's taking a fee for his salary to be called a professional instead of being a parliamentary representative taking that salary out of the state budget. On the basis of this annual salary, two, three roads can be built. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20083	Thank you, too. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20084	Two brief views. The referendum law also refers to so far at least implementing, questioning the citizens' will to change their leaders. It is another problem that even after constitutional changes within 6 months we have not passed, and we have had to pass a new referendum law. It's a failure of both past governments and convenes the Parliament and this government and this summons the Parliament. And as for such capable individuals who can perform all functions at the same time, and be only on one salary and my opposition to volunteerism comes from my position, but that will be the topic when the other law comes to the agenda, that I believe that one person cannot at the same time be mayor, mayor of the municipality or mayor and parliamentary representative, and that we must establish this as incompatibility of functions.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20085	Thank you very much. The next replica and respected representative Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20086	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Lesar. You said 10% that you should and that would be enough because in the country 10% is enough for a referendum and now I would like to warn you or ask you not to stay in order to realize that 10% is a little short for these jobs because the state has never carried out a Croatian referendum on some issues for which the signatures are over 10%. I claim that if there were enough 10% of voters that any stronger political party in each city could demand the mayor's shift every month. The HDZ could collect 10% of signatures without problems in Split. So I think it should be from these... one 25 to 30% and it doesn't have to be the referendum law, it shouldn't be involved in this at all, but it's the recall law, it means 20, 25% or a quarter of the total number of voters, and then it's the election, and the one who gets the majority is the mayor again, and it's over. But another sentence if I have time, you know what the problem of all this is that this furniture has launched for us, the collection of the state apparatus, gentlemen. There are now 25 councilors in the town of Split, and 31 are now being proposed, which is why political parties would have more room to fall in love. We are gathering the state and with this law we will collect the state so much not to reduce the number of units of local administrations and self-government but to increase the cost compared to the current state, and that is what we gentlemen need to imagine. The number of city councilors and municipal councilors should be reduced and the number of parliamentary deputies should be reduced. We don't need over 100 here, so make it 101, what's 150 for? That's the point of politics, and that should be the point of politics in my opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20087	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20088	That's probably why you didn't understand what I was saying. Therefore, recalling the head as a special institute, I have proposed this, and the provisions of Article 2 of this Law refer to a referendum not on resolution but also to any other issue in the jurisdiction of local self-government. It's two different institutes, two different models. And I was talking about 10% of citizens' signatures. Whether they will be collected by a group of citizens, a political party, whatever. And who's to blame tell me that there has been no referendum in Croatia so far? Who's to blame? You. You were in power when you denied 700 and a few thousand citizens' signatures. And one more thing, don't talk local administration and self-government anymore, there isn't that, there's state administration and local and regional and local self-government. There is no wooden iron, there is no local administration and self-government since 2001.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20089	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, Minister of Administration, the esteemed Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20090	Thank you, Mr. President. I'll try very briefly. So as far as recalling the referendum law is concerned, I wouldn't interfere with those two institutes and those two laws. It is good that in this law we prescribe these constituent elements of impeachment, so how many votes there must be, and in the referendum law we can technically implement it. Because if after the election we went to the referendum law to change the constituent elements of the recall then it would fall into that part of the election system change during the match around. So it's good for us to prescribe the majority in the law on this, and how most can be implemented under the current law on referendums, election committees, callouts, etc., and the result will be prescribed in this. Now the local law states that the provisions of the referendum law apply. It won't be necessary to write now, if we go to a new recall institute in these two articles we'll put on how much most is needed, and that technical implementation will take place and then the referendum law isn't crucial in this part because we can't prepare it by the end of the year, I'm telling you openly and then better yes. As for the Law on the financing of political parties, you said yourself, we are waiting for some more opinions and then we will propose it perhaps in an emergency procedure, we will try to avoid but perhaps in an emergency procedure by answering that. As for the number of signatures, at the state level it's 10% but the collection, it's good now, it's going to be the agenda point and it's going to be about it. As far as locals are concerned, it's a little easier to collect signatures than at national level, because at national level you have to have a wide network of sign collectors, it's technically harder to organise. That's why I think it's justified that the number at national level is smaller than the local one. We did, and when we put the number of signatures for the lists, we didn't take the linear principle, so we're a little bit logarithmic about it might be a solution, but I think it would make it a little bit complicated. I think it's relatively easy to collect 20% in smaller municipalities, that in larger cities it's a little harder to collect. But in major cities, it's a little bit more of a referendum, so that cost-benefit analysis showed that we're about to leave 20%. This has been so far and I do not see that this should be changed further, and the introduction of an advisory referendum at local level has therefore been prescribed by the Council to call a referendum which is not binding. Now a referendum if called at local level is mandatory and must be 50%. Now we're gonna make it a little easier. So I think it's also one step forward. As for this two-year term, this has been a constant debate since the first session of the new Assembly. We believe it's in this, so that's an appropriate provision. I think three years, two years, one year is an arbitration thing, and two years are kind of half, so let's say that's appropriate. As far as companies and public institutions are concerned, these other legal entities are, for example, trusts and something like that, so let the other legal persons stand, so that it is best prescribed. It's a surplus when the head's prescribed. It doesn't hurt. Our problem was that it wasn't prescribed so far, and then the court interpreted it at one time, and then it applied to all the other units of local self-government. I agree, I must admit that I agree with what MP Vinkovic told you in the replica. So it's either a professional or a volunteer, so he's getting paid or not getting paid. If someone does not want to receive salary from the local budget, it will save the local budget, and its responsibilities are not less. He's still responsible for everything that suits the mayor, the mayor and the other. So I wouldn't do it, I wouldn't do it in particular. And the last and probably most important thing you mentioned, so budget. So whatever the rules are, that's how the factors are going to behave. Now the mayors did not propose a budget not because they could not make it, but because the Council wanted to be sent to the elections. And now they know they're in danger if they propose a budget even though they don't vote it, but they're in danger, too. Therefore, it will not propose a budget more, but will take advantage of all the possibilities to adopt the budget. And vice versa. It will be a stronger role for the council to vote on the budget, as it knows that the mayor also depends on the mayor's conduct of office depending on the budget being adopted. And budgeting is kind of a mutual failure. And I'm sure we just have to predict what if we don't get the budget. He's got four options. No more than four options. The first is that both councils and mayors fall, it's kind of a balance. The second is that only the mayor falls, because the budget is the right of the council, the right of the Parliament, the right of the congregation. The mayor suggests it, but he doesn't have to be adopted by the council. He who makes the decision should be last and the right to local self-government is achieved through the council. Therefore, in doubt whether the Chief or the Council should go more in favour of the council in that part. Now it's not like that, now we've only got the council to fall and the captain stays which is not right for me. That's why we're proposing a change. And the fourth is that nothing happens, that neither falls, nor the other. And how is it going to work any further if they haven't been able to make a deal by the end of the year? So, I think of these four options, the one that we have proposed is the most logical, and then let the factors that will work for the benefit of the citizens be agreed on, or it is better to split up as soon as possible and to have the citizens choose the other or the same or the other who will work for their benefit. That's why we proposed a proposal like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20091	Thank you, Minister. Three replicas have been reported for your presentation. Let's get this straight. Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic is the first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20092	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I noticed, Mr. Minister said you shouldn't interfere, I apologize if I didn't, I won't legally lay down two laws – the law on referendums and impeachment. I noticed that. But there's one thing that's interesting to me that I want to sort of problem here, and that's in article 35, which I want to explain a little bit and make it a little bit clearer. Namely, the article speaks of the exclusive jurisdiction of the representative body, I'm talking about mixing let's say in some way the law. Therefore, it speaks of the authority of the representative body to appoint members of the Administrative Councils, institutions and other legal entities, and of the proposal of the mayor, mayor and mayor, and of the special laws, specifically the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, stipulates that one of the founders of the Institute of Spatial Planning and County is. And in that case, the founding rights are being exercised by the mayor. The right to appoint members of the Governing Council of the Institute shall also belong to the founding rights in dispute. Furthermore, the Health Protection Act stipulates that members of the Administrative Council of the Health Institute are appointed as founder on the proposal of the Head of Health. So, I would also like to say that it is also necessary to provide for the possibility that specific laws should be regulated differently by a particular situation, so that the executive body leaves the possibility of appointing certain persons, i.e. by another authorised proposer, for example, the head of an individual administrative body, so I would ask Mr. Minister to bear in mind and to clarify these circumstances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20093	Thank you very much. The minister will say, as in the first case, to all replicas with one replica, and now the respected representative Branko Bačić and the second replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20094	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Minister, I'll take two of your statements, on two of your statements. The first is the possibility that mayors, mayors and mayors can be at the same time parliamentary representatives. I don't think all those who have performed both duties can accept such an opportunity. In fact, it is impossible to carry out the mayor's duties in quality and at the same time to be a parliamentary representative. The more we now and in the Assembly, the more we enter a record that will be fairly evident in the work of individual representatives. If the work lasts four days a week in the Croatian Parliament and the fifth day is still held meetings of the board, I do not understand how county, big city, city or municipality can be run at the same time. Therefore, for me such an institute cannot be in this law. And if the reason for introducing this institute is that he would cost less of a unit of local self-government, so he would eventually act as a representative and receive a salary in the Assembly, I think that we are doing more damage to the city, i.e. the municipality or county, by the fact that the mayor, mayor and mayor are breaking out of work and sitting in the Assembly and receiving wages than they are, then it's a greater pity that they are not doing their job in the city, or the municipality or county. The second part refers to the Council's resolution, or the Mayor's Assembly, if no budget is adopted. I think you should be very careful here. Namely, the mayor, the mayor, or the mayor, is responsible for the implementation of legality in his unit of local administration, or if he proposes a law, or budget that is in line with the guidelines provided by the Ministry of Finance, if he proposes a budget that is absolutely in accordance with the law, and the City Council, the Municipal Council or the County Assembly does not adopt that act, then there is absolutely no justification to discharge the duties and mayor, or mayor. Therefore, it is necessary to be careful and to prescribe what conditions are these if the budget is to be adopted and then the leaders of the local self-government units should be resolved.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20095	Thank you. Third replica and respected representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20096	Mr. Minister, when I was talking about two possible reasons for not adopting, not making a budget and reading this article 47, I said they both fell. And I support the concept of equal responsibility for both leaders and representative bodies if they play with the budget. And that is precisely what is in one term 4 questioning the relations of forces, the possibilities of cohabitation, and there will probably not be many examples where conflicts that can lead to disbandment and representative bodies and leaders. But what I asked was, if the head hadn't proposed the representative body couldn't bring it. They both fell. What then about funding local and regional self-government? We haven't solved the funding problem. That's what I wanted to point to in a brief review because time is limited, and then I can't elaborate. So, I'm warning you, we haven't solved it again.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20097	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, the Honorable Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20098	As for Mr Milinkovic, I have the impression that there is no last version of the law that is on the benches. Therefore, it is currently in Article 35, if the special law is not otherwise laid down. So what you read was at a public hearing in the 7th month and it's been repaired, which is why it serves a public debate. Thank you. As for the incompatibility of the functions of this law, we did not regulate this legislative package the incompatibility of the functions of mayors and mayors with the function of parliamentary representatives. The incompatibility of the mayor's duties with the duties of parliamentarian is regulated by Article 9 Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. And that doesn't change. So, the mayors won't be able to go to Parliament under this law. Are we going to expand that for the mayors? Maybe, once. In this case, by the end of this term, probably not. Perhaps from the next parliamentary term, if that's the deal. It's a little bit more big to just define it even though there are naturally ideas to do it. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20099	Let the minister replicate, respond to the replica, and do not jump into his word.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20100	Yeah, but so the article, you're talking about the Electoral Law? Article... Well, we can, there's a chance we might clear it up. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] As for volunteering and not volunteering, then we have one case of a municipality that has over 10,000 residents and a chief of staff who wants to be a volunteer. And by law, he can't. And then he applied to work hours for 1 hour and 7 hours working as a dentist. And he's a theoretical pro. So we have different creative interpretations and acquisitions. It is better to prescribe that he behaves as he wishes, as far as his working status is concerned, and as far as responsibility is concerned, whether he is a professional or a volunteer. Let him choose his own way. If he chooses as a professional, in a working sense, nothing will change, and if he chooses as a volunteer he saves some money, and let the opposition criticize him for being a bad chief because he doesn't have time to work both. That's very legitimate. ... Well, he can, but he probably won't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So here's the answer to
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20101	Thank you very much, Minister. You will be given the opportunity, and let us not do what anyone says from the bench, it would be fair to let everyone present their position as provided for in the Croatian Parliament. I now call upon the esteemed representative, Mila Horvat, to state his position on behalf of the SDSS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20102	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I listened to the minister answer the previous questions, I think that he was fairly justified in answering some of the views of the predecessors, but we at the SDSS Club still think that this law or this pact of the law is behind this the next law that was related to this should have preceded the adoption of some other laws, so it was said here that the Law on Referendum was to be settled on a permanent basis, so as the previous questions prejudged for the adoption of these legal solutions. If we had resolved a different referendum we have the impression that even the character of these legal proposals would now be something different, some legal models would be something different, and I will warn you, and I will later say so, so the permanent residence is the basis for the exercise of certain rights of members of national minorities for the elections for executive functions in local self-government. So you're setting up that place. So, since we didn't do it, I understand that the weather is tightly approaching the elections and I understand the full motive of the ministry why it goes with these legal proposals. I can understand that through these two readings we will crystallize certain attitudes and I hope that in the second reading we will have some optimal solution for two very important system laws that depend on local choices. We won't talk about the category of local sheriffs when we talk about the executive power so both the mayors and the mayors and the mayors almost couldn't theoretically do it but practically couldn't change so far. I don't know if there's any recorded case that according to a previous legal solution has been replaced by the head of the executive until now, I don't know him, maybe someone knows. So, we're not talking about it, I'm talking about the previous model having some shortcomings and having to do with it. We appreciate the ministry's attempt to find a third optimal solution with one mix between that first model and this current model. We think that the whole thing is going through a lay motive that would be right to say that what the legion of this whole law has been saying is how to change and limit the action and change the leaders of the executive government. So it's something that's going on as a fundamental thesis through this legal text. We're going to say something about that right now, refering to 4 or 5 important things. I'll probably repeat myself in some things, but obviously we've all been in clubs analyzing this proposal of yours, and we've come to some conclusion that there are certain unspeakables that I'm not going to say roughly neurolgic points in these solutions, so we're all going to kind of say our opinions about it. Article 15 is said to delete the two articles so far, that is, Article 45i of Article 40c, so not only are they deleted but one elemental thing is abolished, which is the possibility that voters who directly chose the executive power are able to recall it. So abolishing, no more referendum mechanisms, well, if we had arranged that referendum as a category, then probably this possibility would have remained within the law. The referendum as an opportunity to show mistrust to those executive leaders who have lost the public trust of their voters should in some way remain but of course modified. It's too late to do it right now, but you need to think about it. So we cannot take away the right of voters who directly chose someone to directly express their dissatisfaction with him. If we have said that EU accession does not require a 50% quorum, why should this be necessary in a small municipality to show a 50% quorum to the head of a small municipality. So my suggestion is to find a model that might be some sort of appropriate substitute right now for showing the direct will of the voters in this matter. Article 21, which has also been called upon by colleagues, refers to the overruling of powers to the holders of the executive authority, whereas it is clear that it is too much authority to appoint members of the boards of directors in public institutions and companies owned by local and regional (regional) self-government. In particular, it is prone to abuse when it comes to the media, so to local media, owned by local self-government. We believe that a certain control mechanism should be established here so that members of the Supervisory Board are appointed by a representative body, and that the management functions of that representative body give this representative body consent in these companies and... so that it is also created in this segment not only in the budget segment of the joint responsibility of all local self-government actors in the management of companies owned by local self-government. We think that this would in some way avoid the famous clientelism that is now being spoken of in public. Article 47 is the basis of this whole legislative proposal in our opinion, so at the same time the disbanding of the representative body and the resolution of the holder of the executive authority. Here it is as the main tool of it all is proposed not to budget the local self-government. It is one of the possible ways but we here have a few dilemmas that would be good for us to respond as the proposer sees it. So why should a head who proposes a budget under the law be relieved and the representative body does not want to accept it? It's one of life's possible variants. The second question is why the representative body should be disbanded if the head has not submitted the draft budget under his legal powers. He couldn't even have been brought, so it's also one of the possible variants in practice. And the third kind of dilemma that I think is real, and that's what we think at the local level, the representative body will agree to disband itself to punish the leader. We don't think we've reached that level of political culture in local, especially local self-government yet. Therefore, we do not rule out this model, we think it was necessary to find a mechanism to limit the power and enable the shift of the holder of executive functions. We do not rule out the possibility of this tool being exactly a failure to accept the budget, but I think that these questions should be answered and that it should be done in some way. For us as representatives of national minorities, I think Article 18 is very important. He talks about selecting members of national minorities in the executive authorities, and then a solution is given here that is good both by choice and by election time. So for this time we choose representatives of the deputy from the quota of national minorities, the deputy executive head of the same day at the same time as both the mayors and mayors and mayors, which we think is good, first of all for economic reasons, which will lead to significant savings in election costs, and I think that this will give more credibility to the election results themselves in the category of members of national minorities. We have bad experience in this, therefore from previous periods, which is all conditioned by the provisions in the statutes of local self-government. We still have situations today that certain local self-governments did not comply with their statutes with the provisions of the Constitutional Law, and that no one for this violation of his obligation had held any consensus. And that's the thing that needs to be regulated, so we need to prescribe ways of responsibility for those local self-government leaders who do not agree with their statutes in accordance with this law and constitutional law on the rights of national minorities and thus enables the selection of deputies from the quota of national minorities. And we consider that a certain preliminary issue, so we cannot go to elections for deputies from a group of national minorities unless the former municipalities in the statutes have arranged it. Article 16 speaks of the very interesting position of deputy executives from a group of members of national minorities where it is said to elect the deputy mayor, deputy mayor, deputy mayor from the quota of members of national minorities but he cannot act even after two years, so the deadline is not at all questionable. So he definitely can't act on the duties of those leaders. Of course we see it as a restriction of certain constitutional rights, but we also think that provision, this solution, is found to be contrary to the law that we will later discuss, the Law on Elections, Article 111(4), I think that it is what it says that the proponent for deputy mayors, mayors and mayors can be all parties registered in Croatia. So if the party's proposings are registered in Croatia, I do not see that the proposed appointed, or elected in such a single procedure cannot be equal in the conduct of these duties. Article 24 guarantees some kind of proportionate equality of national minorities in the employment of new employees in local and regional self-government bodies. Of course it's a good thing, of course we welcome it, but we have a certain reserve in the way it's going to be carried out because so far experience doesn't confirm that we've acted in such a way, or that we've respected such declarative provisions. In any case, it is also final to consider the discussions of previous colleagues who claim that at the same time whether it is good quality that at the same time in the parliamentary benches, so that the parliamentary representatives are also certain executive heads. In addition to the formal one practical question whether we can physically fill a working Sunday in two places. Therefore, since this is the first reading of the intention was to support the proposal's initiative to work something out, to do, to find good mechanisms to correct the previous indetermination or inadequacy of this law, and we think that in the second reading we will get a better text than this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20103	Thank you, too. I'd like to inform you that at 11:27 p.m., the time has elapsed to report a ten-minute hearing. And now I call upon my esteemed colleague, Silvan Hrelj, to present the views of the HSU club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20104	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, which there must be in the general public, as well as among us dealing with politics of great interest. What should be said at first, that I have the feeling that there is no time constraint, there is no tension and I think this is the right time to discuss these amendments and the additions of the law. And I think it is also worth commending the way we communicate with the public interest and with groups of experts and specialised civil society organisations, so to commend it is communication in the drafting of this bill. Of course, I also share the opinion of my colleague, Lesar, that we should, therefore, clarify the text of the law in the finals and agree to make easier use of it. But it is a possible observation of the technical nature to which it can be reached. I have participated in several discussions on this law and one thing is certainly unequivocal. A good intention is to remove all the shortcomings that have been seen in the remark so far and certainly solves a large number of shortcomings with proposals. But as always, there is no solution that would satisfy us all and of course this bill opens up certain dilemmas, certain doubts, certain solutions worth discussing, and some solutions are really worth describing from all possible aspects to see their achievements. In any case, we in Croatia have some concrete remarks about the pensioner's party, some concrete praise about this law, some ambiguity. And I will try them in this time that I have to discuss in some way and present. First, I would disagree with this morning's finding that the issue of a referendum of revolutions in local self-government is. No, I mean, it's the right of citizens to define and it's a referendum on the lives of the citizens themselves, and I think it must be one step forward, and by adopting this law, I'm sure we'll have a referendum before the election. Because of course every serious legislator will not miss the chance to do or if we want to do what Switzerland has to do that a referendum can be called on everything. And I don't think we're that far, that's where we came from. There are questions that are governed by other laws that would not, simply would not be referred to a referendum to be made. Therefore, I am sure that once I adopt these laws until the very elections are passed, we will also have a referendum law. So we welcome this direct participation in the decision-making of the citizens themselves and I think 20% of voters in the local self-government unit are reasonable measures to carry out the referendum. So, there is, I'm going by the articles. In Article 3, then, of course, another improvement in communication with citizens. One position is given to a more local self-government, a pardon to the local choirs of citizens. It is therefore proposed that the municipal city council may request an opinion from the citizens' local assemblies on the proposal for a general act and other issue from the self-government area of the municipality, the city as well as on other issues of a certain law or statute. But I was saddened by paragraph 2. The opinion obtained from local choirs is not binding on the municipal, or city council. Then it's better not to write anything, not to say that it's not binding. What the hell are we asking the citizens if it's not binding on us? It's better there's no law. Without prejudice to the comments made on Article 4 that they will eventually collect an increase in the number of members of the representative body, that they will increase costs. I don't think that's what's going on, that that grade doesn't seem to me here with this proposal that standardizes the number of councilors relative to the size of the unit of local self-government, that it's a much higher profit than the cost. Because the cost can only be higher for the council fee. The parties will therefore get nothing more because the cake will be divided into more parts. Therefore, costs are minimal but one option has been prevented from setting up election results through an increase in the electoral threshold where you have 9 in equal units of local self-government by the number of inhabitants, and on the other side you have a councilman. Then they are safe, then the electoral threshold is certainly different. So it can also be calculated in the election planning. This, in Article 4, prevents such opportunities, i.e. it sets up all units of local self-government that are equal to the number of inhabitants in equal conditions. There is a big doubt in Article 12 about this deputy who can act as mayor, mayor, or mayor after two years of office. We need to watch what kind of people we have and analyze a little bad practice. We have safe space here for possible arrangements. Let's make a deal two stronger parties can't find a deal, they don't want to go to the election alone, we're going to go to the coalition, so we'll agree two years will be my chief, and two years will be your chief. So I would really be much happier if it were written here after 3 years and certainly there would be much less room here for any political calculations and agreements, because I still think that we must, that we must always appreciate what is chosen than the replacement, regardless of what the deputy at any time can perform all functions or in the event of his absence, by the order of the mayor. But he's still the deputy. Further where we have the dilemma is Article 21, so where the mayor, the mayor, or mayor has great powers in acquiring and alienating, always this word to me is alienation but I know that it is legally correct but it sounds a little strange to me, the property and movable property of the local self-government unit has too many powers as well as great powers in the appointment, i.e. the resolution of representatives of units of local and regional (regional) self-government in bodies of public institutions, companies and other legal entities. So, what's this about? It's usually a unit of local self-government or founder or co-founder. So he has a representative in every congregation of such a company. So once there's one big steering role, then there's and I guess most or some co-existence in the council, so in the representative body, it's not necessary to prescribe this to belong to the executive authority. I think that would be much better if it were the authority of the representative body. Here it confuses me in paragraph 2 one sentence you will see 0.5% of the income without receiving. I don't know what these receipts mean. So, for the sake of clarity, please pay attention to clarify these receipts are all receipts or just some receipts? This is in paragraph 2 of that same Article 21. Also in Article 22, we have a headmaster on time of 4 years, of course they can be re-appointed. It's the principle of power that comes bringing its own people. However, you know whether the staff pools of political parties are so strong that at any moment they can bring in their own people and what about those people who are impartial and who honor themselves because they are mainly professional affairs. After all, I would disagree with the claim that someone on the side will bring better people because these people who do this today have certain obligations that they have made by taking a state exam. And the state exam was passed in this ministry not anywhere. Therefore, I think that these jobs should also be taken into account and those people's expertise. This is quite a radical move. In any case, I am pleased that the Government in Article 25 will conduct, through a specific institution, the permanent training of local officials and officials in cooperation with national associations of local and regional (regional) self-government units. This really makes sense because we also have changes in legislation and changes in relationships and need to ensure continued training. And I'm glad that there are local officials involved, not just officials. What remains is a dilemma for the end is a dilemma or a doubt about the simultaneous disbandment of the representative body and the resolution of the municipal chief, mayor, or mayor and their deputy. So, we have a situation here that because of the non-acceptance of the budget without entering the reasons can be disbanded and the representative body. At the same time, the representative body and directly elected chief, mayor, or mayor and his deputies. So it is not anyway and it cannot be that the directly elected leader that we have such a situation when the directly elected leader violates the legal provisions, works against the decisions of the representative body, the situation cannot be the same as when he does everything by law, works by the decisions of the same representative body, but because of political relations, due to the intata created inside he will not be accepted by his budget and is going to collapse. So we can't uniform this situation. There are different situations from the local self-government unit to the local self-government unit and we can hardly measure a single approach. Secondly, it's a different way of choosing. The representative body goes to people on lists, is elected in the first round by the mayor and his deputies or the mayor or mayor is subjected to an election roulette, going twice to the elections and directly elected by all citizens. Therefore, my and HSU's proposal and my personal position is to measure the number of call-back signatures by citizens at a level of 25% one good measure and which should be maintained in this law and we would be inclined to make such decisions in order to prescribe the exact number of voters' signatures for the mayor's impeachment if they are not satisfied with his work. More would be for such a solution than this solution where, regardless of the reasons for not bringing the budget to a fall, both the representative body and the executive authority. Here, in any case, HSU will support this bill and we are very interested in a further solution and we will participate in all discussions. And I hope that we will all together implement a quality law that will not change for a little while. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20105	Thank you. Now we'll first hear the replicas of this exhibit. The first one was answered by a respected representative, Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20106	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I would like to replicate on your statement that this is really the right time to discuss this law and the law that probably follows it. Well, I don't expect you as a member of the ruling coalition to attack the law proposed by your government, but I find it entirely inappropriate to praise the time of law-making, which lays down electoral rules only 3.4 months before the elections. I don't think that's really the time. For me, the constitutional provision that electoral legislation should not be changed in the election year should also apply to local elections. But if this does not apply strictly by respecting such a provision of the Constitution, then good parliamentary practice should not be changed in the election year even for local elections. I will remind you that last year the ruling coalition wanted to implement a technical amendment to the law by amending the Law on Election Units and at the recommendation of the Constitutional Court that the size of the election units in Croatia be harmonised in a way that there is no deviation of more than 5%. At that time, the ruling majority of the opposition at the time began to attack the bill by breaking electoral legislation as electoral engineering was carried out. So it seems to me that by this very statement of yours you point to credibility when it comes to the adoption of the Law on Elections in this case for units of local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20107	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20108	Indeed, my dear colleague Bacic is incomprehensible to this replica of yours. As far as I know, the election year is 2013, and this is the first reading and by the end of the constitutional session of this House there are many days that this can pass the second reading. I don't understand your point.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20109	Second replica of a respected colleague of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20110	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So probably your colleague Hrelja won't understand my line either, because she's on the trail of these same principles that my colleague Bačić was talking about earlier. In fact, you said by saying that we can discuss in peace, we are not in a time-stamp we have a very long time and enough time, namely, this principle of a year is not a calendar principle that is the time principle so in the year before the election. And since you were a member of the ruling coalition for a time, I can remember your reactions as a member of the ruling coalition then, as well as a member who came out of the quotation as very, very energetically opposed to any principle of any rule in the election year. This is about elections and direct elections for the leading people of cities, counties and municipalities, and it would be the same since the words of citizens are chosen by voters to choose and lead by name and last name to happen before the election for the president of the Republic of Croatia that 5 months before that, someone here may think of changing election rules for the president of the Republic of Croatia. So it's about the principle that we all agreed on. Since this is the law in the first reading that we are discussing, and the one that follows is the second reading, and this time seal will actually narrow down, and we will have even less time to prepare. So it's still about colleagues and colleagues about their kind of political inconsistencies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20111	And this replica is matched by a colleague named Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20112	Dear fellow Kosor, I hope your memory serves you well, and I haven't made too much effort to defend the principles of election laws, but my memory has served well in the past nine years, and on your part, it's an election year, and it hasn't always been respected for more than a year of calendar days before the election. So you don't have to get excited about it, but what I've done, and I'll always do the principles and principles of preserving the pension insurance system and protecting the rights of the pensioner, I've always heard above all else, and I've certainly been more tolerated, but if you're not satisfied with this dynamic, you're looking for a credible interpretation of the provisions of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20113	Here's a third replica of a colleague named Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20114	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You said you'd be much happier about certain solutions. I want to tell you that this isn't about gambling. This is about an extremely important law that is extremely important, everyone swears to this local self-government, gives her a lot of commitment, and the financials, as we've heard and from fellow Cain, we see what the problems are. So you are simply a member of the ruling coalition to submit an amendment will surely be respected, and you see I have so many here and none will be accepted. Secondly, you said that the chiefs or vice chiefs have great authority. What authority, please, nice? Well, the commissioners have difficulties with basic funding under these circumstances of difficulty and what powers they are now. And secondly, the position of the deputy is completely unclear. I want to make it very clear... Minister. According to the proposed changes to the deputy municipal chief, the mayor gets the status of executive body only at the time when the mayor, mayor and mayor ceased his term after two years of conduct. From that unclear position, the deputy team itself is more so that I am the municipal chief can transfer part of the executive work. So certain powers, what powers? Here's the point of the story. So there's no authority that's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20115	And this replica corresponds to the esteemed Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20116	Well, look, it doesn't make sense to discuss some forms, some expressions when someone says they'd be happier, I mean, it's really not a replica. But look, I think most of your remarks form up, and least of all, it's a shame to waste time on answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20117	And now the Minister of Management Arsen Bauk has answered his word.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20118	Mr. Vice President, I didn't mean to pick up after Mr. Hrelja, but the replicas made me a little happier to pick up after Mr. Milinkovic... resenting his form. So it's something that's been going through a public debate for a long time, and this is about this famous year until the election. So what's this about? It's not about any constitutional provision, so it's not about constitutional provisions. It is not even a provision of the constitutional law for the implementation of the Constitution on the deadline when amendments to the Law on the Selection of Representatives for the Croatian Parliament are to be adopted in order to bring them in line with the changes to the Constitution that we had in 2010. So it's not even about that. So it's about the next one. The Declaration on the Stability of Election Rights, adopted by the Venice Commission, speaks on the elections in general and on any therefore electoral issues and codes of good practice on election issues. And what's she saying? It says that the fundamental elements of the electoral law, in particular the appropriate electoral system, membership in the electoral commissions and the representation of the borders of the electoral units should not be open to changes less than one year before the elections or should be written in the Constitution or in the regulation of a degree higher than the ordinary law. So that's the Declaration on the Stability of the Venice Commission's Election Law. Now, I'm analyzing, although this should be a debate about the next law, but let's define it immediately, so what changes in these laws. a) the electoral system, so we have a direct choice of mayors and their deputies by absolute majority, it does not change, it remains. We have a selection of councils and congregations proportional to the system, the donor system, the 5% threshold, and that doesn't change either. So nothing in the basic electoral system changes. The change in the borders of the electoral units falls under the fundamental elements of the electoral law, but if you brought it a year before the election it would probably not have fallen in the Constitutional Court, and you would have been exposed to criticism as you were. Secondly, the representation of the borders of the electoral units does not change the same, so it is that we have cities and municipalities, we have them as one electoral unit and therefore we have elections as we have so far. And third, membership in the election commissions is changing, but changes in a way that does not narrow the party's right to participate in election commissions, rather than extend the party's right to participate in election commissions. Therefore, these legislative amendments satisfy all three principles of the Declaration on the Stability of Election Rights adopted by the Venice Commission and therefore represent an improvement, not a restriction of the electoral right in part of the control of the elections, so membership in the election committees, and neither is the electoral system changed nor is the allocation of the mandate changed, who has been elected, etc. What about the changes to the borders of the electoral units we're talking about, I'm not 100% sure that would not have happened even though I'm relatively sure that you then changed the electoral unit to make it constitutional, so it doesn't fall in the Constitutional Court, but I don't think you had 77 in the House to do it, but let's let that part go now. Finally, all the clubs of the MPs received objections from the State Election Commission to the Law on Local Elections, and in these remarks is not mentioned this year, and it is not mentioned because before we went to the amendments we must consult with the State Election Commission whether such changes would be a violation of that principle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20119	Now we have a few replicas on it. The first one will be presented by the esteemed representative, Davor Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20120	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's this opportunity to show how much our Rules of Procedure has made the changes he's made even more messy in this House. Once again, the secretary of the administration has been given the opportunity to talk for 10 minutes, and the subject is not on the agenda. He was talking about a law that would come if there was luck after all the individual debates about this point were exhausted, so I don't think he should have talked about it at all. But as we have already talked about it, then we have to point out again, the constitutionality of this law has not been raised, the question has been raised that the ruling coalition that made arguments on why electoral legislation must not be changed in a year before the elections, not the calendar year, 365 days before the elections is not changed, that it is a good parliamentary practice. Remember that you have jumped from the President of the Republic of Croatia through the Prime Minister to the current Minister of Administration, I will not use any collokual terms, in defence of the principle of good parliamentary practice not to change electoral legislation in a year preceding the elections. And that is the essence of our remarks that will only be on the agenda when that point is on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20121	Okay, before we hear another replica one brief clarification. The minister didn't go off-the-book, he was responding to the replica you just put out, so according to the ome, if someone went off-the-book, it was you when you replicated. But since we're taking this session intolerantly, I haven't interrupted you, but I can't, for God's sake, warn the minister who answers your lines to get out of the picture. Let's go hear another replica. It will be presented by a respected colleague, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20122	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd like to rephrase to Mr. Minister when he says that the law that comes after this law will not change the electoral legislation significantly. For me, where and where less changes in electoral legislation are made if the borders of election units are changed in a way that a few hundred voters in one constituency numbering around 200000 members enter the second constituency. And be careful how much you change electoral legislation when one unit of local self-government who has chosen 25 councilors according to the current elections, as we heard in Split, is now choosing 31. So, if according to current law for a councilman in the city of Split it took about 3800 to 4000 voters, and now it takes for that same councilman 2 and a half thousand, up to 2800 voters for you it is not important to change election rules. The electoral threshold for entry into a particular city council, i.e. the county council, or municipal council, is amended. These are important amendments to electoral legislation for me. And under me, it would fall under that provision that, in the election year, such drastic changes to the Law on Local Self-Government and elections for members of local self-government units cannot be changed and cannot be changed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20123	Mr. Arsen Bauk is responding to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20124	I do not agree with you that this provision is an important change to the electoral legislation, because according to the current provision of the city council a month before the elections can amend the statute and increase to 35 and cut to 19, according to current law. A month before the election, the city council, not the Assembly, can change the statutes and reduce it to 19 or increase it to 35. There's such a range in the current law. Therefore, this is also an improvement, and I do not agree that in large cities, so where more than 15 council members are elected, that means changing the threshold, the electoral threshold remains 5%. Only 5% will go in 3 or 2 instead of one. But those who have below 5% will have zeroes like they've had zeroes before. So I think it meets this criteria for not changing election rules completely, especially in light of the fact that even now it can be used in the statutes. Okay, 60 days, okay. ... Well, that's four months ago again. [[You can't hear it.]] But you can. So you see that this is a fix compared to what it is now.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20125	I ask you to conduct this dialogue in the Rules of Procedure in a regulated manner. The third replica is the respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20126	Thank you very much. I would, of course, rephrase to Mr. Minister again because we are certainly leading a good and constructive debate here, I think, among other things, with a debate on this law and parliamentary practice and some sort of consensus of political parties. On the other hand, we hear new theories about what is actually a change of law. So you're saying it's not about changing, or changing election rules. No, it's a whole new law. So is changing the law if it proposes a brand new law or amendments and additions to the law. Of course we know it's about the recommendations of the Venice Commission. And we were, of course, counting on it when we started, talking about the past government, taking decisions of the Constitutional Court that clearly said what we should do about the number of voters, election units and the boundaries of then election units. And we gave it up just because of this principle that we thought we agreed on within a year. So, there is no change in the time year, and of course we have consulted the Election Commission, and of course we have received the same interpretation as you, but still we gave up the election rules then simply estimating that the damage we would have had to discuss whether it was good or not at this point was greater than would be the political benefit. And that's what this is about, Mr. Minister. So we will have very, very little time until the elections after this one and the other law is accepted which I have no doubt in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20127	Mr. Arsen Bauk is responding to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20128	I'm glad we solved the constitutionality dilemma, which I'm glad we solved. Now we can move to resolve the dilemma of political correctness. So it's entirely legitimate for you to challenge the changes and call for the arguments that you make. So, that you, the past government did not change the borders of election units in a year before the election. The only thing we can't agree on is why it isn't, because it's my legitimate right to say it's because you couldn't raise 77 votes in the House because some parts of the ruling coalition were against it, not because you decided. Because if you thought it was better for you, more damage than good, then you wouldn't suggest it at all. That's how I interpret it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20129	Mrs. Kosor!
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20130	Yes, so, but it really matters to me that we have resolved this dilemma about constitutionality, and I do and I think that we have good arguments that you can dispute not to change the basic electoral rules as defined by the Venice Commission and that the preparation of political parties for these elections under these rules as we propose will not be any different than what would be under the current rules because they are very similar, not to say the same. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20131	Here's a new replica, the esteemed representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20132	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I'd like to appeal, I've been deliberately using the Replica Institute, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I would appeal to all representatives of clubs, to all representatives, therefore, and to all MPs when they use the replicas institute to make sure that we are discussing two very important laws today but not in a united debate. We should have done and taken advantage of the business opportunity if we wanted to conduct the debate in this way and discussed both laws at the same time. But from the very beginning I didn't want to react immediately, I thought it would be an isolated case, but this has become a rule we're also discussing this law, but also that law that will go beyond that, about the Law on Local Elections and we're wasting time, I really think we're wasting our time, we're not focusing on this one law if we're now under that law discussing that. Could he be the mayor, the mayor, the mayor's parliamentary representative or not? ... I'm just saying an example. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So these are the things we'll discuss in the other five hours as announced in the debate. So I ask you to focus on this law, and since we haven't done what we should have done, it would have been more likely and logical that we had a united debate. Because otherwise we do all the damage to Rules of Procedure 210 by old, or 212 by this because we are moving away from the topic of debate. We're divorcing the debate. Then what are we going to discuss in the second law? Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20133	My colleague Buriæ agrees with you completely and I have nothing left to do but repeat your appeal. And as effective as it will be, we may have opportunities to find out already in the next replica to be presented by counterpart Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20134	Here I am, my colleague Buric, not agreeing with you and the predecessors to speak in Parliament is not a mess. Someone used to say that it's a general mess because there are some things that you shouldn't be talking about. And I don't even think it's some bogeyman from the bench. Look at the other parliaments in Europe, outside Europe life is of course desirable, the dead is not desirable. First of all, a mistake was made that these two laws were not joined, and if spoken, and we said the laws were so close, they touched so much that it's impossible not to talk about this other law, the error was made at the very beginning. I will go a moment outside the scope of this topic because I was offered by the minister because the minister also spoke about whether the change in election units was technically or essential. It is absolutely certain that these constituencies of electoral units are an essential issue of choice. First of all, it's one of the constitutive electoral engineering that's been on the scene for over a decade and what's wanted to achieve, I don't know, and I can't doubt the good intentions of those who wanted to change, but there might be something right, but it should be quite certain here that the election minister is changing the border and that nakarad is correcting because all the elections so far because of the constitutional determination at 5 minus or plus percent are actually illegal or are anti-constitutional elections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20135	We've now reported one breach of the Rules of Procedure. Dear Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20136	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I must conclude that this occasion has hurt the Rules of Procedure because you've established something that I haven't said for a moment. I didn't say it was forbidden to talk about anything but that we could actually use the business opportunity to unite the debate, I even think it would be better, but when we haven't already done it, then let's concentrate and discuss this law, not the other one. You said you disagreed with me. So, I'm not going to repeat what I said before, we're not having a unification debate and we stick to it then, let's focus on this, and not to discuss it anymore, there's been more debate about that law that's going to come up in the afternoon than it was about this first law. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20137	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the SDP club, a respected representative, Vesna Fabiančić-Krisjanic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20138	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Minister with Associates. Here are the amendments and additions to the Law on Local and Regional, or Regional Self-Government. Of course we know, and that is what we have heard in the debates so far, that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia guarantees the right of citizens to local and regional, or regional self-government. The establishment of the current local self-government system began in 1992 by setting up a fundamental legislative framework and the system was established in 1993 by law governing the territorial structure, self-government, electoral system, the way in which local self-government is financed. Today, a total of 555 units of local self-government are established in the Republic of Croatia, 429 municipalities and 126 towns and 20 units of regional self-government plus the City of Zagreb. Of course, these amendments and additions to the law require a broad public interest, and we would disagree that these amendments and additions to this law have come into the time frame. I, like my predecessor, would like to commend my colleagues, the Minister and his ministry and the way they gave this amendment and the addition of the Law on Local Self-Government to the general public. Since the month of July of this year, this law has been in a broad public debate and this law, which is now in its first reading, has also adopted a number of remarks from July to today, i.e. the proposed first reading. Anyone interested in this subject may have been able to follow, suggest and propose for months. In any case, the 2007 Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government has introduced a system of direct selection of the executive body and implemented in the last local elections in May 2009. We will all agree that practice has shown a lot of problems and a lot of instability in relations between the representative and the executive body. Practice has shown that the result of instability is precisely the ineffective functioning of the body of units of local and regional self-government and thus the poor provision of services to citizens. The current solution that the mayors, mayors and mayors are de facto immeasurable is certainly not good. Such consequences can produce significant political differences, and failure to adopt the budget is certainly a major political difference between the representative and the executive body shows the current legal solution. Where the mayor, mayor or mayor proposes as the sole proposing budget and if they withdraw it before the vote or if the majority of the representative body does not vote the budget, and this does not happen in the first three months of temporary funding, only the representative body shall be disbanded after the current legislative solution. In any case, what needs to be taken care of, and this bill is well-traced to make it so, the citizens suffer. The mayors, mayors and mayors dissatisfied with the majority of the representative body are also in a position to manipulate it. We therefore support the proposal for these amendments, which seek to address the problem of conflict of powers between the representative and the executive body and, in fact, establish balances in the responsibilities of both bodies regarding such an important issue as budgetary adoption. We believe that this does not play out the voter's will because, by disbanding the representative body, early elections have been carried out for that body, and not only has the executive body remained in office but it has had the possibility to create conditions for disbanding the representative body by avoiding the draft budget or by withdrawing the draft budget without any consequences. The interdependence of the representative and the executive body is primarily contained in their core roles. It is therefore such a provision that in the event of a failure to adopt the budget as a basic financial instrument, which is in fact a complete unit policy on who is right to decide on this by electing both the representative body and the mayor, the mayor or the mayor. What we feel is the same good in this bill is to regulate the supervision of the legality of individual irregularities. And that is for the first time this proposal first puts control over individual irregular acts. So far, there has been no such surveillance. And we'll all agree, and we're witnesses in our midst, very common adoption of illegal illegal acts, and there was no control or control of it. We also believe that the number of members of the representative body, with the detailed work of the scale by which the units are classified according to the number of inhabitants, is certainly better than a valid solution that leads to inequality in the number of members of the representative body. Today, this inequality relative to the size of a single unit of local self-government is indeed great, which certainly does not need to be so. We also consider a good solution to appoint a headmaster at a time of 4 years with the possibility of re-naming. So far, it has been possible to change the structure to affect the status of the headmaster. A new provision of course does not mean getting fired. In the absence of a headship as a collective executive body, the mayor and the mayor shall be allowed to form a self-rule team for the duration of his term of office. This provision is followed by a system of officials in the cabinet of a minister who has been introduced into the state administration, and in a situation where the municipal chief, mayor or mayor act as executive authority as an in-house body, they shall be allowed to form a supervisory team to carry out self-rule tasks during the term of office. This solution does not prejudge the position of the headmaster in an unfavourable position or the politicisation of the official status of the headmaster. The relevant regulations lay down the professional conditions to be met by persons for work at the head's post as well as any other official posts. It is indisputable that supervisors managing administrative bodies in local and regional self-government units carry out the most complex work in the division of units and within the necessary expertise and competences. All issues of importance for the official status of the headmaster and the exercise of their rights and obligations and official relations are prescribed by a special law which has been applied so far. In the present part of the debate, we could hear that this was not a good solution. Everyone who mentioned this in this debate seems to forget that, on a regular basis, the change of government has occurred in any local or regional self-government unit so far, that existing leaders have been resolved. I think this is far more just, not just, it's not a hypocritical solution. This shows that the mayor, mayor or mayor will form his team, will not reach for any other mechanisms to reach that goal. And finally, we believe that the fundamental consequences of the proposed legal solutions are better and more effective functioning of the body of units of local and regional self-government and greater contribution to the exercise of citizens' rights to local, regional and regional self-government, the one established by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. We also believe that the comments and proposals made in the broad public debate before the first reading of this proposal, as well as that the suggestions between the first and second reading of the amendments and the addition of the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government will produce final solutions that ensure political stability in relations between the representative and the executive body, greater efficiency in the performance of the affairs of these two bodies and clearer determination of their rights, obligations and responsibilities. Therefore, the SDP club will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20139	Thank you. We have three replicas. First respected representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20140	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a colleague due to limited time I will only replicate in relation to one of your allegations, and you said that you welcome the adoption of these amendments and additions because they resolve the issue so far by the irrevocable head of the executive authority, i.e. the mayor, the mayor and the mayor. That's simply not true because the amendments and additions to this law make the head even more immeasurable than he was. I could agree with a certain introduction of a balance with regard to the representative and executive body, with regard to their resolution and their interdependence in the adoption of the budget, so that if they cannot agree to do so, then they will fall both. It's been a long time thinking about that balance. But I certainly couldn't agree with the fact that all the provisions of the existing law on let's call off that leader. Thus far, the representative body has been able to launch an initiative to discuss the mayor's replacement referendum, to resolve the mayors, mayors and mayors. Where, when they violate or do not execute decisions of a representative body or, by their work, cause a unit of local or regional self-government more material damage, therefore, and where such behaviour is such that it is not a criminal offence and does not have to wait for the judicial verdicts, it does not insist on carrying out what is its basic duty, which is as the executive body to implement and does not commit abuses in the conduct of decisions and general acts of the representative body. Now there is absolutely no possibility of it, as there is no possibility that citizens who have chosen the executive body in any way call it off.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20141	Replication response, Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20142	Thank you very much. I would not agree with my colleague, Lovrin, with the conclusion that it is now, now, immeasurable, yes, not according to this proposal, as you have now said, but under the current law. Because the conditions under which all this should be answered by the mayor is absolutely inconclusive. You know very well that absolute turnout in all local elections is good if it goes 41.42%. So the conditions under which we can now discuss and decide on the mayor's responsibility certainly cannot be met. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20143	Next replica, colleague Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20144	Thank you very much. Here I am listening to this debate, and I really find it interesting, all the time the mayors, the mayors, the mayors, some sort of object of interference, I don't know who they're all doing, what they're all doing, and we're always discussing how we're going to replace them, how we're going to solve them as soon as possible, and then we're saying here that we need to enable them to form their team of experts who will then work and implement their ideas. It's not clear to me what and which direction we're going because the cities aren't all the same, the municipalities aren't all the same, the county's not all the same. There are towns, municipalities and counties where they are the heads of a non-partisan person. In my town, no president is a party person, everyone's in a public competition, and what's being said here is that we need to change the law in this direction that we're going to form our own team. So I hope that it won't be as it is now formed in the ministries teams, the main expertise of the party coat, but that we will have heads who will be professional, and that we won't build up any more apparatus because since the current leaders are adopted by law by the second, by public tender, they are subject to the Labour Act and they will remain working, we won't be able to, we can't drive people away, we can't fire me. How many new party leaders are going to be per unit of local self-government, how much we're going to collect that machine bureaucratically, how many riots in the locals, I don't agree that it's a good model, and I think we're wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20145	Thank you. Replication response, Vesna Fabiančić Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20146	Thank you very much. I don't know how you from my debate have concluded that the SDP Club considers the mayors to be a subject of interference. In my debate, it is welcomed to introduce stability in the functioning of the mayor and representative body in terms of the most important general act, which is the budget and financial stability. I agree with you that all cities are not the same. But I'm very surprised when you talk about headmasters the way you talked. I believe that in your city probably all the leaders of a non-partisan person and that theirs, that it did not affect their choice at all, were the proclivities of your political option. I think it's time for our country to stop being hypocritical, to regularly after all the local elections we do a completely different structure of administrations and administrative bodies in cities and counties to just bring in the leaders that would be our team when we were elected mayors, or mayors, which is a practice in all units in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20147	Thank you. And the last replica of counterpart Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20148	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, I must replicate my colleague because she has found in her closing statement that this way, the proposal for this law gives citizens greater opportunity and greater importance in this immediate choice, i.e. control of the whole process. Now, logic says, if they choose citizens and change councils, so the citizens get involved again in the reelection, that the part you kicked out, and it was called off through the referendums of those citizens, excludes them from the process. So they're important at one point, choosing a direct leader. Then one small group sacked him and then the citizens re-enlisted in the next election cycle. That's what I said today at the beginning of the space where we return political corruption. And then these local leaders, and we heard today from the Honorable Minister, called them some and local sheriffs who were elected, so they may behave in an appropriate manner. In my opinion, this bill makes these local sheriffs become emperors, but it's six months since they've been given much more power. I can't even be held accountable. According to some provisions, we see that they cannot be called to account, and we allow the possibility to be told by a smaller group of people, and I say there are no more citizens in that group. Then it's an individual opinion, and I think maybe it's the most important thing in this law because it doesn't make any sense simply. If citizens have been elected, they should be able to resolve through the referendums. Whether it's 10 or 20 or 30% is something else. But at one point, they are excluded from this story by the basis of this law and return only to the next story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20149	Thank you. And a response to the replica Vesna Fabiancic Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20150	Thank you very much. My colleague, Boric, cannot agree with your finding that the citizens are elected by the mayors, mayors and mayors and replaced by the council. They're not being replaced by the council, they're being elected by both the mayor and the representative body. Therefore, citizens will be put in a position to choose again with their voice and be sure when the situation you've implicated arises, which is that this council will have an impact on that fact, and I am convinced that voters will clearly recognize this kind of obstruction.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20151	Next up is the HDZ Club and colleague Davorin Mlakar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20152	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. We have before us a law that has been decided not to discuss it together with the Law on Local Elections although they are closely linked. However, the repercussion of the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government will concern some other laws. I will therefore, in this review in front of the club, only limit myself to what is being resolved by amendments and additions to this law. Some arguments to pass such a law have given me the impression that we are living in some parallel time or in parallel universes because I simply cannot understand the reasons when someone tells me that passing a new law is not an amendment to the existing state of affairs, that it is not an amendment to the old law, and that does not change even the rules governing either the old, or the new law. It's on the trail of the story we're hearing from this government that it's fairer to go to political appointments than to choose people by public competitions. It's exactly somewhere on the same trail and with the same arguments that offend the common sense of counsel, so at least if there are no more serious reasons for you to explain the law-making, don't explain something that's contrary to sound logic. Essential remarks on this Law would have started if Croatia had tried two models so far. One model is that executive heads are elected from a representative body which was later replaced by generally accepted ideas that better enforcement authorities at local and regional level are to be elected in direct elections. And now we come after a relatively short time when in practice both models have been tested with changes to this because it seems to us that he did not give the right results or did not give good results. And when this government took office, your Prime Minister said in this House that the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government is bad and that it should be changed. He amended it so that he sacrificed general principles and therefore the electoral principles for individual interests not only of his own government but of his own members. So the first change was that she had now found places in the law, and then only in the amendments and additions, was that all the leaders at the local level of the executive authority after two years of office if they were to go to another office, that is to say, by decree, can voluntarily appoint their deputy to change them by the end of the term of office. In your opening speech, speaking of the needs of the adoption of this law, you have tried these criticisms in some way, and you have said that because you have already heard this on the working bodies of one of our objections why is such a right the head of the executive authority acquired after two years of office? Why isn't it after a year, why isn't it after six months? What criteria did you have in mind that you decided that only after two years of his term of office would he be able to go to second duty and order his deputy to act until the end of the term of office? I think it's a very arbitrary provision, and it's pretty pointless. Because if it is possible to do so after two years of office and not give the right to people at local level to choose another, then why should it wait two years? So you can decide that after six months. It seems to us even after the time has elapsed that this way of choosing the executive head is not the addition of the system and the political system and the state system and even the local self-government that we would like. We continue to go with the logic that the executive power at state level is elected from Parliament and Parliament confirms the government, but that at the local level it is not necessary but that there, other than selecting councils, i.e. representative bodies, will choose executive power. And she showed everything I'd said the problems in such an understanding of the election were any council, or representative body, any executive authority, so now you've tried to patch up what seems bad. You have now established in this law that, in addition to what was the principle that the head of the executive authority is the mayoral authority, and that its deputies do not represent the executive power, so in order to reconcile it in some way with this law, you have now extended the holders of the executive authority and to these deputies because they occasionally appear as good substitutes or anti-candidates to those elected in the elections. I want to say all of that with one basic message. The Croatian Constitution, which you spoke about in the second context, states in Article 133 that citizens have the right to local self-government and that they do so through representative bodies. The Constitution does not talk about the possibility that the right to local self-government can be consumed, fulfilled or implemented through the executive authority, but only kept the representative body from deciding on local or regional interests and citizens' rights. So on that side, it's even weirder not to say cartoonally that in this law you as a government, or you suggest that Parliament be that body that determines how many individual units of local self-government will have representatives in their representative body. And you think it's a democratic solution, that it's an advanced solution to what's been so far that all units have a certain range of how many council members will choose in their councils. Now the state will determine that there can only be 15 councilors in a certain city and that city, regardless of his declared right to self-government, cannot determine whether there are 17 or 14 of them. It's asphyxiation of freedom at local level and it seems to us that it's a setback compared to what so far has succeeded in obtaining or achieving some right to local self-government and freedom of decision on matters of local importance. Furthermore, when relations between the executive authority and the representative body were mixed up so far, there was a right for the executive head to be relieved of his duties in the referendum. The argument has been called so far only four referendums, none of them were successful in changing the mayor. I have to admit that argument to my speech this way. In most units, there was no need to replace the executive head or wherever there was and there was no need to vote enough to declare him incompetent, unbehavior for the conduct of a certain duty. Therefore, the argument that there has been little referendum on the replacement of the mayors and mayors is no argument that the law requires that voters be completely excluded from the possibility of affecting whether or not someone will remain or not to remain on a specific duty. Therefore, this way as you suggest that he no longer can question his duty in office through the right of his constituents to be replaced before the term of office is a fat step back from what we have so far. Maybe it's not nice to say there were other solutions in the ministry. This law shows a whole series of good things while, as I say, officials and professionals were able to influence because of all the bad things that proved in the application of the law, someone talked about it, about the supervision of the work of local self-government units, which is certainly insufficient and which should be arranged. But then when politics got involved, we got some solutions that are far from you admitting people the right to local self-government. You're doing it right now, and you're doing it with the fact that I can't make a statement about who's gonna be mayor if his term stops too soon. They are not sure what if the mandates of those deputies he appointed are stopped, by necessarily having to fall to the representative body and the head of the executive authority only in case they did not bring the budget, you gave them a salary that could be negotiated over everything long, and you say that this is how political corruption will be prevented at the local level. Corruption is also possible by such a solution, although you have suggested to the head of the executive authority that he negotiates with the representative body so that they will not be disbanded and the body and the mayor falls. You must build in the law the possibility that voters who have given the mandate to these people can decide on their mandate, not that instead of voters, the Government of the Republic of Croatia does so. And just for the illustration that you were not consistent with what you were saying and what you finally suggested, it was possible to really pass a better Law on local self-government but then we would expect that you entered into the law something that is not there, and that today everyone and even those declared officially incompetent are acting as head of executive government, either the municipalities, the city or the county. So, if you need to be a bus driver, then you need to be able to work, but as mayor, you can also be incapacitated as a working person, so that I can check it out and make it clear to everyone what we're talking about. And to the mayor, the same one who may be working incapacitated, you give authority to manage companies owned by a local self-government unit headed by her. And not only manages, but manages both the Assembly and the Supervisory Boards and the Management of Commercial Companies. Here you went against what the Constitutional Court told you about, and that the right to local self-government is the right to decide on issues of local importance that this body that makes the decision to form a company is probably logical to set up its own assembly, not to do so by a single person in the person of the mayor, mayor or mayor. Therefore, our first proposal to amend this law would be, given the tested two models of the Executive Authority's election, that once you change the law once again consider whether a better quality solution is to elect the executive heads in the direct elections or to return to the solution when they and the chieftainships have been promoted from the representative body of their unit. And to what extent the fact that the head of the executive authority was directly elected in the elections suggests that some leaders were then cleverly appointed by 15 of their advisers who together managed the unit because they had no ability to form the headships that once existed. In view of all of this, it seems to us that the biggest objection to this law is that instead of voters, the government now takes the right to disband legally elected bodies and we think it's an instrument that you have to give up on. Secondly, we do not think that it is a single budget-making reason why the term of office can stop either the mayor, the mayor or the mayor, or the representative body, because what you have already said may happen to the representative body to act legally, to warn about the illegality of their own mayor's work, and that in the end, both must go to elections. For all other remarks that are more technical, there was no time, so since this is the first reading we will try to deliver them to you until the second reading. I must, of course, say that the HDZ Club for these reasons opposes the adoption of this law in this form.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20153	Thank you very much. We have three replicas on your exhibit. Josip Boric first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20154	Thank you very much. Well, I kind of have to replicate to my esteemed colleague Llakar because he wondered what it was like and why it was set for two years, not why not three, why not one. This method is called ominous in the people, two years from the eye. And then what are you...? Two years. One term of four years has 1460 days in these 1460 days is enough to make elections to be the leader of 731 days, and because you will be the leader of the other 729 days we do not need to have elections. If that's the reach, then the question is, can we consider this a good proposal? I think it was justified that it was possible for six months because it really might not make sense then, but to give someone half the mandate because someone wanted to become a state official or something else, and we saw how it ends here in the Parliament when you had to withdraw two mayors and one deputy. One mayor in the same ministry with a minister then returning to the starting position, and the law remained completely, simply there is no word to describe it. And you didn't answer me today either when I asked if you could quote me a provision of legislation that allows the city's leader to leave his post, leave his deputy mayor to run the city, and he goes and runs a public state firm. Based on what provisions of the law is that allowed? Is it possible, if we're going to start a company tomorrow as head of local self-government for 10 kuna, after two years we'll go to that firm that we're going to run, and the deputy is going to do our term by the end without a choice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20155	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Replication response, Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20156	Dear fellow Boric, who asked me to answer you, is not a well-known obvious method, this time it is an experienced method because SDP has already managed to destroy the city of Zagreb, which is ahead of bankruptcy and could not resolve its relations with Mayor Bandic. They have the same problem, or similar problem, that they would like another person in Split to be mayor, but they don't know how to win the election. Then it's better to disband everything and name yours. I guess there'll be plenty of choices to get to who they want.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20157	Zoran Vinkovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20158	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It may not be just Zagreb before bankruptcy, but Mr. Mlakar and the state, but as a member of the government, you too have a lot of stakes and that former government in it. So we don't really throw ourselves at rocks, these didn't exactly do everything to get Croatia into this situation. But I'm going to go back to this law and just ask you a question like a replica. So who appoints board members, supervisory boards, public institutions, companies, companies owned by the Republic of Croatia, the Parliament or the Government? So, what's true at the state level in your presentation, you want to get off the local self-government, and it's no wonder that as a minister of the administration or your ministry you've given different opinions about who's right. In some cases he was the mayor who was in a dispute over companies with city councils, and somewhere there was a city council right. And it was that if the city council was in the majority HDZ then the city council was right, if the mayor was from HDZ then he was right. So let's not throw ourselves with stones for no reason but look at what we've done. And do you know as an ex-minister of the administration that I complained about the administrative court about that SDP councilman's transition, that this process is still going on, that there are already other elections coming and that simply this administrative court has not resolved the appeal primarily because that councilman was a replacement and that councilman has appointed a political party to come as a replacement and to withdraw him practically from the city council. That's how the ministry worked, and here I respect the intention to come up with the right solution, and that's visible from the whole of this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20159	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20160	Dear Representative Vinkovic, I'm glad you asked that question. Unfortunately, I can't tell you about the practice of the Administrative Court, nor can I talk about the deadlines in which they solve cases, and I can tell you that part of their speed I was unhappy when some of the cases of interest to the Ministry were in front of the Administrative Court. But as far as giving an opinion on certain issues is concerned, I will introduce you to the fact that while I was working there, the Ministry of Administration gave an opinion on the management of companies owned by local self-government units, not what would suit you. I don't know what position you're asking me from, whether the mayoral, parliamentary representative, one or the other party, was, and as Parliament's representative. So our answer was the one that finally confirmed the Constitutional Court, which is that it is in the jurisdiction of the representative bodies, and not now I am not going to tell your mayoral but the executive authorities to appoint the congregations of companies, so neither the administration nor the supervisory boards, but to represent the owner, the one who represents the owner. If you don't believe what I'm telling you, I'll do my best if Minister Bauk has it in the archives, and I'll hand you the opinion at the next session. It'll be a lot easier for you to understand. ... It'll be easier for you to understand, maybe when you read what we wrote. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20161	And the last line has a colleague Đurovic. Here's Drazena Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20162	Thank you. Well, here's Mr. Mlakar, I'd refer to this part of your exposure when you mentioned that there's still the possibility that those who are actually declared incompetent to behave, so they can't drive a tram, they can't work in their workplace anymore, and they can be mayor or mayor of the municipality. Well, I don't think you should be surprised by that, given that those 50, sometimes 80, sometimes 50% of the ministers are incompetent in the government, so that's probably the logic that the legislator is going to. If they could be ministers in the government, deputy ministers, they could probably also be municipal mayors or mayors. I guess that's the analogy they draw when they make these solutions. The second question you have raised is the possible opening of the return in an indirect way to elect the municipal mayors or mayors. I think that, however, this wheel of history is turning and that, fortunately, Croatian citizens will not return and that we will not be taught by some bad experience to return to a period of political trade and political nepotism when the mayors and municipal chiefs chose indirectly by various contracts and when the municipal chief or mayor could indeed become someone who in the elections, by direct elections would not get a single vote or perhaps get two percent of the votes. Indeed, that step in direct choice was a good step. And regardless of some negative example from practice, I think it would really be a shame to put them back on the wheel of history now. And the third thing when it comes to quotas and this bill that defines the number of members in the congregations based on some population structures, I don't think the proposal is bad. It may still be developed, but in some ways it synchronises and, this model to the space of the entire Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20163	Thank you very much. And a response to Davorin's Mlakar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20164	Dear counterpart Djurovic, if this were a guarantee that there will be no political corruption because of this choice, I would not speak the letters against it. However, the same thing that could have been said about the fact that a councilman from one political party is being transferred to another now under the threat that everyone is losing their mandates is opening the door just so that both the mayor or often in the SDP's version his deputy appointed very easily agree with the representative body his mandate so that he does not happen to be disbanded and the body and that he loses his mandate. That's what this is about. So the argument that something was a political trade before, and that doesn't make this impossible just doesn't stand. I don't want to believe it, and I'm convinced that 80% of the local self-government unit is the job, and if you want cohabitation and possible and well-functioning. But bad examples warn both in this case and in what may happen. The fact that they will continue to be directly selected by me is no advanced case compared to any other solutions, so for example, I will tell you that some of the more orderly European countries have even tried on pilot projects in 10 or 20% of their units of local self-government to go with the new model, the one that we have now and proved to be unsuccessful. So they accepted what seemed to be a better quality and logical solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20165	On behalf of the promoter, Minister Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20166	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I want to look back at three things. First of all, I'd like to thank Mr. Mlakar for this commendation to the law enforcement officers. I understand that, so I'm going to tell them, but I also understand it as a compliment because it's a sign that as a minister, I've also recognized officers who work well and who can make a good law. As for the political impact on some solutions, some solutions that are truly the cornerstone of the political system and the responsibility of politicians to solve them, not officials. So I really think that's the way it is. As far as direct or indirect choices are concerned. It is legitimate to always open this topic and in this sense I was at the beginning of the first presentation three and a half hours ago saying that we were working in the frameworks which we were given, and that it was a direct choice of mayors, mayors and mayors. And in that sense, we tried to fix the situation. We don't have in our plan to change that system to indirect. So we don't have a plan. I think that would be a step back. And we have a plan, so since there's some general consensus that this kind of referendum should be abolished, but we're going to replace something else that we're going to definitely do until the second reading, so we're going to propose one solution that's going to be feasible. Because I think a referendum like this is in law, I'm going to call him a double cheater. So he's got it, and there's nothing you can do about it. Pretty much. Second, as far as political corruption is concerned, we're back two thousand, a few years back. The sooner it happened, the more the councilman's crossings. So they'd replace one mayor, and then they'd pick another mayor. Now, however, I cannot choose another mayor, but the mayor will still be elected by citizens, and in that case those who have moved to the other side will risk their mandate, especially if they are representatives of those political forces who are also on the previous side, so in the elections they were regularly close to the threshold. If they cause a crisis, it's very likely they won't cross the threshold. It's very, very different. So there is, however, a decrease in that area compared to what was before 2009. I can't choose another mayor anymore. And there's something else I want to say about the appointments to the company. So, if the interpretation was that according to the applicable laws, it is done by the representative body unless the statute specified otherwise, it was an exact interpretation. I'm curious about something else. What was the political will of the government then when it passed the law, whether it was in the power of the executive authority or in the power of the representative body. Before the election, when elections are made, then within the ruling structure, no matter who goes like this. What Mr. Vinkovic said in a part of the political structure that has authority is responsible for naming mayors, and one part of the same political structure that has most of the council is responsible for calling it the majority in the council, not the rival chief. And then nothing can change anymore. And four years did not define whether it was an executive or representative body, but remained so. And if we don't do it now, then for the next four years, we won't be able to settle it because of the different relationships that the structure in a particular unit of local self-government will prevail. So, I think if this is a system, which is, it should be arranged before the election. Now we're staying with what's going on and getting into effect after the election. So this can also take effect 8 days from the day of publication in the National Journal, but we want that mayoral authority, or the council, to come into force after the elections to apply it to a new situation. Well, then the citizens will decide who it's about. And so I want to say more about the Constitutional Court's decision, so I'm going to read the National Journal 36/2010. "The constitution and the law governing the work of the representative body of the unit of local self-government indicates that if determined by law, by other regulations or statutes of choice, it appoints and resolves other persons outside the circle of members of the working bodies. Accordingly, the Law on Local Self-Government empowers the representative body to designate the authority responsible for the implementation of the elections, appointments or resolution of certain persons by its Statute." Therefore, it is clear that the Law on Local Self-Government, summarised the Law on Local Self-Government, is not prescribed by the body responsible for designation, resolution, etc. rather than leave it to the statutes of the units of local self-government, so in this sense it is a matter which the legislator considers to be their own self-rule. And there's a second sentence, "Will the statute recognise that jurisdiction to the representative body or the municipal chief and the mayor's matter is the decision of each individual representative body." So it was possible for the mayor to appoint so far if he gave it to him in the council's jurisdiction. But that's where we agree, and I think it's a correct interpretation. But there is also the following sentence: "If the legislator considers it necessary to prescribe a different solution in order to determine only one body responsible for these matters in all units of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia, he is authorised to do so by law under Articles 134 and 135. The Constitution." So, if the Croatian Parliament powers someone else, it is authorized to do so. We propose in the first reading because it is part of the debate to define which body and to be the executive body in the unit of local self-government of the arguments that we have cited with so some mechanisms that can be improved, transparency, control but someone needs to make a decision and answer for that decision while the chief is in charge, and it may stop if he does not adopt the budget and must have the ability to manage. When he ceases to be chief, it will be done by another chief, and then it will be possible for someone chosen to be responsible for his work while he is chief. When he ceases to be chief, someone else will answer, and no one can be the chief to not be elected by the citizens and no one can be chief forever. It's always the end of the term, or four years or two years, and then the deputy comes or shorter than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20167	We have four replicas on your exhibit. The first one is Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20168	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, I deliberately commended those who wrote the law because they introduced a whole series of norms where they would explain or improve what proved to be bad in practice. And while they created it, it's commendable. The problem is that later politics got involved and that you politically solved gave a completely different direction and some sort of solution in this law and that's what's worst in this law. If you'd recognized these associates, then you wouldn't have relieved them of their duties, but that's a particular issue of your staffing and personnel policy. What is undeniable to us, and I trust others, and it is good for my colleague Vinkovic because you have read it now, it is not about the management of companies based on this conflict, it is about who is the one exercising ownership rights, and since something is appointed by the owner as the Assembly of the company. This is all the further consequences. A congregation that appoints certain bodies. We've advocated it, and from what you've read, it's nothing different, that whoever's the founder of a company is also the owner, that unit of local self-government, and determines the congregation of companies. Whether it will be passed on by each unit to the mayor by its statute to us today is not a questionable matter but advocating that the original power of the representative body is to represent these ownership interests, not one man.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20169	Next replica Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20170	It is good for you, Mr. Minister, to mention the Constitutional Court and to rely on the Constitutional Court, but that actually makes me say something about these decisions of the Constitutional Court and in light of what was said before about when the law should be passed and that this law should be applied in the next elections. I remind only the following facts: In the previous elections, the Constitutional Court decided 4 months before the election to amend election rules. The Constitutional Court has already influenced these elections in a way that has actually interpreted the Law on Gender Equality in a strange way because the Law on Gender Equality says that in third regular elections there will have to be 40% of women. He damaged 40% of women who could actually be in local self-government in the way he interpreted that regular elections meant only those elections held the day they were held 4 years ago. One baroque statement to say so. And in the end, what I'm saying right now is, for one purpose only, let us give someone else a choice of judges of the Constitutional Court because that way, if the parties choose them, they'll always be the result of the trade. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20171	Thank you. Frano Matušić has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20172	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, it's hard to take the impression that Mr. Minister is here exclusively about trying to discipline certain environments and certain individuals. In fact, to encourage your experience in the inability to solve specific cases in specific cities, one of them is safe and quite certain Zagreb, you are trying to find solutions to avoid future and similar situations. You continue to politicise the presidents, reintroduce the political resemblance for those places, for the main posts, by interpreting that the person, or the mayor or mayor, should put people he trusts in, believing that there is no trust in professional people chosen by a public tender that has very clear predisposition to perform certain public functions. As for the relationship between the representative body and the mayor, I think colleague Mlakar has already made it very clear to you that the matter has not been disputed so far, it was only disputed whether the representative body would transfer the powers it has on the mayor or on someone else. Therefore, and we really leave it in the domain of local self-government, let us leave this question to the representative body, which may, in fact, be the founder of these institutions, institutions, etc., because it is illogical that it stands at all in the law of possibility, nor will there be a mayor or mayor to be the founder of some institution, institution, etc. The representative body is that, for the sake of the citizens and the basis of their will, the basis and results of the elections, it is actually a citizen and it is authorized to actually set up institutions, and therefore everything that is related in the course of the election of the Assembly and representatives in the assembly, etc., and the bodies of supervisory and everything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20173	Thank you very much. Replication response, Minister Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20174	So if you find it difficult to take away the impression I don't know, I will try to ease your weight to take away the impression that there is something to be done for Zagreb. So if something were to be done for Zagreb, then it would be done at the beginning of the term of office and the Zagreb story would be resolved sometime at the 6th month. ... But you mentioned it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And in other cities we have different situations, somewhere the mayor is from one option to the left, and the council or the right doesn't get along, it's the other way around, but what we're suggesting is that whatever is applied, it applies from the next election, so you won't know who, where and how. I agree with you that it has been decided that the representative body is doing so, although it became clear only in 2010 at the 6th month when the Constitutional Court resolved, until then the debates were held, and it would have been better if it had been the legislator in 2008 immediately to make it clear, because this is how little the city represents the Law on Commercial Society or by some law the city represents the mayor, the mayor, the representative body here, and that is no doubt part of the political system, so the relationship between the representative body and the executive body, and that it was quite clear how it was settled it still does not mean that it is clearly good. Maybe it's really better for the mayor to do it and the representative body to control it in other ways. Maybe. This will continue to be debated, as will the relations of the directly elected Commissioner and the Council, and after which we amend this law over certain situations, and after the next elections, because nowhere in Europe is it resolved in a single way, so there is probably no universal solution that would be good, and each, at any moment, seems to be a more appropriate solution. Four years ago, whoever opposed the public's direct election of mayors was an anti-democracy, so completely... And yet there are voices that say that maybe it's not the best thing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's now becoming a legitimate political stance. What's it gonna be like in four years? Maybe this law shows that there's no possibility that it's good, and maybe it turns out that it's good and it's going to... Less. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20175	Thank you very much. And the last line has a colleague Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20176	Thank you. So I think one of the problems behind this is the fact of the city's very definition. So in the Republic of Croatia, we have defined everything between the City of Zagreb and one town with two surrounding villages, and we have put it all in the same plane, and it is all called the city. And it's called the community. I think we're here and now there's a congregation of some society in town, any trade society. Of course, there is an immeasurable difference between the Zagreb Holding Assembly and the Assembly of a municipal society. I'm not going to say at all in which city, which is barely made as artificial, practically as the city. And of course there are various interests, various concepts, and from the position of the City of Zagreb, it is quite different optics between looking from the position of a small town, looking from the position of a small town, it seems almost bizarre that some congregation of the representative body really is the bearer of whether it is a governing council, the administration of this municipal company, of a society, so that it should be the man that people practically know personally and who they trusted. And it really doesn't make sense. And of course the optics of the City of Zagreb and Zagreb Holding are one quite different, much more complex issue, and perhaps we should further open the question of this definition of the city, and why the Republic of Croatia has more cities than I suppose China villages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20177	Thank you. It's the HDSSB club, and counterpart Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20178	Thank you. Here I look forward to having the former minister hand me a decision of the Constitutional Court, but also his opinions in front of the ministry which he wrote about various cases which are related to the former Law on Local Self-Government where the statutes of the local self-government units have been defined by who sets up the supervisory boards, who manages the congregations of society, who appoints the administration, who solves the administration, etc. It would be very nice to see at the ceremony which mayors received a positive opinion from the Ministry of Administration, whether it was those from the HDZ or from the opposition, which the presidents of the council received a positive opinion from the Ministry of Administration. I can't wait for that day, former minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I will first and foremost commend the early public debate on this very important law. Some of them had above all the remarks that this debate took place at the time, 7 or 8 or 9 months, but I also see here that, after that public debate, some of them work during summer and vacation, I see that I would say one large majority of our HDSSB's proposals were put in this bill. And it is good that this law goes into second reading, and it is good will of the minister as far as I have seen it, and it is not necessary for colleagues from the SDP to praise fully this bill because I have shown the will to step forward in making the right solution for a long series of time periods ahead and where not only are these local elections but also 2017. Since I probably have some of the greatest experience here in running local self-government since I've been mayor for 12 years, and this topic is mostly very close to me, I'm going to try here in one I'd say constructively to point out a certain problem that arises here which, by the way, should be avoided and repaired. The first certainly problem, the problem of this law, I would say, is that it is a merger compatible with the incompatible regardless of what the law so far had provision so far I am talking about the replacement of the head of local and regional self-government because there are both the mayors and mayors and mayors of the referendum. Here, the referendum moves from this bill and the HDSSB proposes that the provisions of a referendum that we claim are the basic things that are related to the number or percentage of voters that can launch the referendum should be agreed on in any case. We are aware that in most local elections, and in many areas, the number of voters out there is not and there may be no more than 50% of the total number of voters enrolled, and that is why we all have to ask ourselves why? It's not the citizens' fault they don't come out, we're politicians. We politicians who have all brought Croatia together with a greater ferocity someone with an effort to solve this problem have brought where in a country that is over-indebted and which in this way cannot come out of this difficult crisis. So we are in favour of the survival of the referendum, and we believe that someone directly elected by citizens cannot be removed from the city council by the county council or the municipal council because it will happen if that provision does not return to a large door to return to the political trade in which many parties participated, where many independent lists, where council members moved from one party to another, where money from the budget was promised, etc. So, perhaps a good proposal that refers to this only as a proposal, not as the final proposal of our club, why not take one more vote than those voters who gave a vote directly to the elected leader. So let's say if a mayor got 12,000 votes, he could be replaced by 12,000 one vote. He can't be replaced by 19 councilmen, he can't, is a lot of these councilmen going to be deputy councilmen, etc., etc. I think it is a good thing that this law now definitely introduces that the statute of the units cannot be determined by local and regional (regional) self-government who is in charge, I don't think that that jurisdiction is the local sheriff, marshal, Rameses 2 or I don't know how but the law should define what the powers of the mayor are and what are the powers of the representative body. Normally, both the mayor and the representative body must work in accordance with all other legal provisions. I don't know if the deputies of the former ministers know that the only one responsible for the laws of the Republic of Croatia is not the president of the city council, not the town councilman, not the deputy mayor, mayor or mayor, but just the directly elected head. The deputies have so far had a function and that function needs to remain that way with the salary they receive that they can only change the head of local and regional self-government when they are empowered to do so. They can't be the second or third mayor, no matter what the German model but known primarily by that erte bürgermeister. One of the following problems, so before the courts, in any case, the president of the council and the councilman doesn't go out, but the mayor comes out. He is punished as a responsible person, and not a porter in the representative body, not wanting to diminish the importance of the representative body because it has great and very important powers, but also the obligation to adopt basic laws, including the Parliament. As parliamentary representatives, we could ask to appoint the Croatian Insurance Authority, INA, if we still have influence in the INA, whether it has been sold out, in the Croatian forests, in any public institution, without the Government of the Republic of Croatia doing so and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not done so. As regards the appointment of a head of director for the term of office of 4 years, I believe that there is first and foremost a need to discuss certain things that may happen if this provision remains on the replacement of the head of local self-government through councils and new elections, that one to whom they have signed as a member of their team of mandates and a contract for 4 years should be tied to the Labour Act and put it in a practical time not to pass that 3+1 day. We need to see what's going on, whether or not they stay when the mayor's shifted, but they will be entitled to everything else through the contract. If I don't say that it could happen that already after the election of these locals in the 5th month of Novigrad, it won't be the case in Djakov, there I will remain for 4 or 8, 12 years, as many voters choose me, no matter who competes with me in front of the citizens, whether new elections will appear immediately afterwards because no new budget will be made. So, with me, someone also said here that the presidents aren't party people. I don't mind these people being partyal, but my leaders have been from the time, practically HDZ time and employees are in the city's headship, the former city of Djakova now, in 2001, asking if they knew God's first command, they said they knew, I only told them that there were no other gods but me in the city administration and that's how they do it, and that's the only way. So I agree with the mayor being able to form his team, but that it must be primarily professional people, that first of all it is necessary to define this section relating to their right. One front desk, I welcome her, she retired, she did her job honestly, and she's a re-worker from the city administration, not from the party, not from the city, etc. Next, we are also opposed to this possibility, and we were the first to point out this problem when forming the Government of the Republic of Croatia that a political option or party or an independent list if it wants to have a minister in the government cannot withdraw mayors, mayors, but as it is represented if you have the power to simply put it in their ranks and that local elections were to be held in the Primorje-Gorski County and Rab. We believe that the mayor, the mayor, the mayor who passes on to responsibilities that have not been associated with his duties, that in these local and regional self-governments, there must be new elections, except in the last year, because we believe that in the last year these elections would not be economically justified, and that Mr. Minister is not going on the ballot, but that the mayor who was elected directly determines his deputy because the ballots were people by alphabet. So in cities, we don't have first deputies, we don't have other deputies, they're both equal. I'm also opening a debate on whether two deputies are needed. So if we're watching the American elections, the American president has one deputy, one only deputy. I understand that when making the last local elections, but there is also a broad debate, that the number of deputies and the number of councilors has been regulated in relation to the creation of certain political coalitions. Perhaps even before the local elections should be banned from the pre-election coalitions and then believe the composition of this House, but also many municipal, city and county councils, have a completely different composition. Perhaps you should even consider that even MPs and councilors go to direct elections, many should not even be elected to the council of the local committee, not to say home counsel. One very important thing that I mentioned here, certainly with these two laws and wanting to contribute primarily to the functioning of local self-government, and I say that I have great experience in managing local self-government, along with these two laws it is necessary to adopt a law on the financing of local self-government because many local self-government is a mini tax reform, so I would say not only that reform, but with everything that happened in 1993. Every year, more and more powers have been put in place, but also greater and greater commitments accompanied by financial decentralisation. So many of the mayors, mayors, and mayors, have been turned into ficcans and pronouns here in the ministries if they are not in a similar political option. Because projects with building permits are not rewarded and not funded, but political similarities are rewarded Final sentence, Mr. Vice President. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] So, the HDSSB club here, with all these remarks of well-intentioned here, wants to help create extremely good laws and laws that are related to both functioning and financing, but also direct elections in local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20179	Thank you, too. I only hope that because of this identification with the content of the first commandments of God, you will not be replicated by the dear God, for this replica could be very unpleasant to you. But you'll be replicated by a colleague, Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20180	Thank you very much. Mine will be much more pleasant. Dear Representative Vinkovic, probably parliamentary representatives know something, so they also know some of the rules you warn us about. You've been making a lot of noise here about your personal experience and you're wandering from left to right without actually explaining what's important. You're chasing the concepts again. That's exactly what I was talking about on behalf of our club. The Government of the Republic of Croatia corresponds to Parliament and parliament and therefore manages certain state-owned enterprises, and you, as mayor, answer to voters but do not try your mandate before your representative body. And that's the difference. That's why we said whether the concept of direct elections for mayors is good, given that at the state level, the executive power is quite different and therefore the difference in the management of companies. Well, since you're wondering, you've asked me to answer that question. And what we agreed on from the beginning, I will be very happy to meet.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20181	We'll hear the answer to the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20182	Well, it's obvious that Mr. Mlakar wasn't acting as executive in local self-government because he knew what I was talking about. So, in all these possible turmoil that allows for such a law but which allowed laws before, therefore, from political trade, defects from the list to the list, etc. The only person responsible before the law would be the head of local self-government. He also made decisions through the budget, making decisions on the fate of these companies owned by units of local or regional self-government. And it's perfectly normal, smart, clear and concise that the local self-government leaders, and they manage, name both management and supervisory committees. On the other hand, we can't act so that every local self-government leader and priority is declared a criminal, a bandit, a thief, not trusting most of the citizens who chose such a man. Every rule has its own exceptions, and that's where I agree. But citizens in the next election will not choose such people anyway. If someone makes a crime scene, then he'll end up in jail, and he won't need any citizens or councils. There are, therefore, institutions dealing with the team and laws dealing with the team. It's a simple thing. You have a company that deals with cleaning the city and the mayor says since he doesn't like the decision of the representative body, he says now I don't give you any more money and you won't clean the city and finish 200 workers on the street. That's why it's important that he appoints.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20183	Thank you. We'll hear another club. In the name of the HNS club, a respected representative, Marijan Skuric, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20184	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. The HNS Club also really believes that this Law on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government is very important, very important, i.e. changes. In particular, we also welcome that this bill of amendments has indeed passed a fairly wide analysis, a discussion through associations, through... And here are two readings about this part and the Parliament. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What we want to stress always that every law must be very effective, first of all it must be enforceable. In order to be enforceable then primarily the ministry, the Ministry of Administration must always answer every question of its arbitration. It is also necessary to define the criteria clearly, because so far we must recognise that these criteria in some cases could always be interpreted twice, and when the criteria are interpreted twice, then there is an unsustainable blocking of work in local regional self-government. And the blocking of the work itself that ultimately contributes to every citizen's much less standard, much less chance of normal life. so they would point out what are the fundamental problems of the local self-government system and which every law must respect. First of all, it is the functionality of the system to number and sustainability. We've always talked about that part of whether we have too many cities, too many municipalities, and we've always talked about rationality in some of these things. What is above all is the attitude and the HNS that in this number and sustainability we need to look at pragmatism, that if you go to change something it's always a question of changing many acts, many decision-making systems and everything else and it's always about cost and time-related. And sustainability, which is a little less unique and thorough, which is what the law has made possible before, and even now, that we may have to point out even more that more local administrations and self-government can be joined to ensure their own needs at their own level. I think it has been less respected so far, and I think it would be necessary and related to the very good positive experience that we have at European level. Why don't we have a communal director on four and five municipalities? Why don't we have one finance service on four, five smaller municipalities? By doing so, we will certainly identify a great deal, i.e. increase realisation, efficiency, and we will not increase the number of people. What matters most to such smaller municipalities is that human resources are the most important. It's hard to find a capable man who can adequately professionally respond to all those demands that we have at our level. And unfortunately, we also have to say that lately, more and more has been put on our local level of decision-making responsibility for the implementation of things, and less at our local and regional level, we can also deal with it. Another level I would like to mention which law must deal with the functionality of the relations between executive and representative bodies. This relationship between the mayor and the council and many problems have arisen. And what's also said at the beginning if we don't have a precisely decoded response to defined criteria and through arbitration if that's not solved then that's where the problems arise. Not to mention the high centralised power and fiscal resources, the mortality of local self-government and, of course, what we must appreciate is that we still recognise or not our political culture is not quite developed. So in this important finality, the emphasis is that our local and regional self-government needs quite a crucial reorganisation and, of course, decentralisation. The law should also take note of the need to curb the space of political and other corruption, improve the functionality of the local and regional self-government bodies and, of course, it is still important to raise the level of participation of citizens. On the threshold of all these needs, the CNS has advocated a direct selection of executive heads and remains. And we really don't think they're local sheriffs, but if you do your duty professionally and qualityly, then that duty is both fair and professional. Also, what we can say about this law is neither necessary nor relevant to many important changes and changes. They were really involved after all these four-year acts of implementation of this law, rather large cuts were, or amendments to that previous law so that it should now be harmonised. What they would like to point out in particular is that, in our court as a club, all changes should not be done to damage the representative body. Again with what the Constitution says, Article 133, that the right to local self-government is exercised through a representative body. Of course, it is clear that the powers of the mayor, mayor, mayor, with a limit of selecting supervisory boards or even appointing supervisory committees, that this is a responsibility for the operations of both municipal and other companies that are owned by the majority. And this is based on the Company Act. Of course, in that part of our position is that all these responsibilities and powers, which extend to institutions, therefore to schools, kindergartens, health homes, hospitals, museums, galleries, public schools, etc. and should in any event transfer more to the representative bodies. Leaderships, i.e. The mayors, even in their own part, first and foremost reviewing the implementation of the budget, are, in that financial section, having a significant impact on the work of the institution, but in the rest of their work, we propose to continue directly to leave that part of the appointment and work being carried out by a representative body or a minimum for the representative body to be informed or demonstrated of such a decision. I would particularly like to mention that it must also be taken into account as the executive body of the commissioners, mayors and mayors and about the conflict of interest. I would especially point out that there are many more such activities and activities of institutions where it may not be well defined whether mayors, mayors can be part of boards or congregations. Here we are now in a phase at the entire state level forming lies. They're local action groups. They are very important, co-ordinated by several local units, in practice by the international part that jointly achieves their objectives, their development goals, priorities above all towards EU funds. In that part, the mayors, the mayors, should be the minimum members of these administrations and congregations, because indeed that part of the coordination and decisions taken here are very important for further development of not only the local part but what is even better and more quality and at regional level. The mayors are members of the Assembly of Tourist Communities, who are very little about whether it is necessary or not in all of the activities that we are carrying out because there is little in collapsing if the mayor brings the budget, or makes a proposal for a budget where... I have to mention the tourist communities because the tourist communities, especially on the continent, do not have their own resources where they could be financed themselves, but they have to be supported by a budget where then the mayor as a member of the assembly and the chairman practically has to look for his own means to act as a tourist community. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A little on that, too, is a good definition of attitudes. With regard to the possibility of replacing the executive head, we absolutely support that part of it is working among other things and the referendum. Of course, if you are directly elected, then you must give the citizens the opportunity to make such an open statement through the referendums and may be replaced. On the other hand, in which way and how I really still suggest that in these quality discussions we define how and how and how I really still propose that in these quality discussions we define how and how, what is the height of the outputs and everything. I think the referendum law can still be well defined. In order to reduce and to ensure that the mayor, or representative executive body is not defined or budgeted, we agree. The budget, however, is primarily financial, but it is based on the overall development of a particular area, means city, municipality or county, and if in that part it is not better to move quickly, such a single solution and start over in some way, because every year, every month that is lost, if it is not defined, it becomes the total stalemate of such a local self-government, city or municipality. I couldn't agree more. Maybe there's one more thing in that part, and I'm kind of neglecting another thing about how mayors can and can change. We're in that part and except... where there may be interruptions before the end of the term of office, except... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] which are indicated, so I mentioned the termination of the term of office by force of the law and that on the day of the power of the court ruling which has been convicted and for the purpose of committing a criminal offence against the freedom and rights of man and citizen of the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's put it this way, let's say we don't have a choice for a parliamentary representative. When you look at the definition of what it is against the freedom and rights of the human and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia not only in the context of human rights of criminal acts, not only defined by the convention why rights and fundamental freedoms, there are many different but let's say for the denial and restriction of the right to work, freedom of work, for the availability of a job, the perpetrator as a rule of official and responsible persons are a violation of the right to... disability protection, also kidnapping, detention of a person, restriction in the essence of freedom of movement, threat, coercion, too... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] mental integrity of a person, racial and other discrimination, torture and other cruel inhuman humiliation, insult, coercion, threat, all within the framework of human rights and related to... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now you can talk about power and reality, but when you start in that part of power, first of all, you know that if something is initiated by any procedure, power takes a very long time, and if you go to open up this part of it, I think from the work of a mayor, mayor or mayor under that item it will be absolutely impossible, that we are not talking if we go into politics. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I say it was built into a decision to resolve the mayor, the mayor at that level, and let's say parliamentary deputies don't have it. I think it would be a good idea for that part to get a little bit in tune somehow. I would also like to mention the possibility of local self-government, these are local committees, or in the city, where they would be surprised at what I say that respects the legal possibility already now that local committees must be formed within municipalities and cities, most of it is not the case. We need to define whether it really must, if it has to, then the ministry must launch adequate activities to initiate the elections from that part and to have local self-government and register and, respectively, define. In the local self-government particularly defined that there should be no great policy, if the exit threshold is defined, we know that, in some ways, citizens' assemblies are defined as representing people according to local self-government, that is, the mayor or council, is now being identified by elections as well as for councilors. Also defined and... areas, if not solved then it is harder to solve common problems, and that does not mean that we should not look at only one narrow area if you have a waterway or road that moves to some local committees then really these people have to make a quality decision and, of course, should not be... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] executive power. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But to sum up once more, the law does not predict or announce major reforms in local self-government. What is important is we need to work as soon as possible to decentralise powers and also resources, the powers are moving but the resources must be adequate to do so. Changes have been proposed, it needs to be well derailed to prevent new imbalances and to install new problems of the functioning of the body of local and regional self-government, and all good solutions that will ensure the introduction of local self-government and the increase of its functionality should be applied to the second reading. And perhaps in the end I would still say that there are always responsibilities to see that it is primarily the ministry that the law will pass, the responsibility and parliamentary representatives will either amend or confirm in this form, the responsibility is always on the mayor, the mayor, whether it works, but we have to ask ourselves where the voter is and the responsibility, because if someone chose the man... where we know each other relatively well, we all give political platforms, goals, visions, content, if someone chooses a man, a mayor who doesn't do his job, doesn't come to his job, doesn't define a vision of development, then I think that responsibility must be borne by both voters. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And voters also need to know the fundamental foundations of this law, if they choose the mayor and support the council from another political option and challenge all these problems, it is their right, but we must not be surprised that in a certain part of the problems that arise from such a relationship will surely return to the development of local self-government and standards that these citizens deserve. So we really need to look at responsibility at all levels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20185	Thank you. That's what ended the club debate. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first reported a respected representative, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20186	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. In the debate on the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government until now, there has been a largely concentrated debate over who will be replaced, who can be replaced. I don't think that kind of debate leads to anything, and that we need to put the matter first of all on the right feet, and the way we're expected by the citizens, and that's to ask the question of responsibility. And I think that this bill goes exactly in that direction, and so does the next Law on Local Elections to set things up about the responsibility of the head of the unit of local self-government whether the mayor, mayor and mayor but also the responsibilities of the council or the assembly and their relationship with each other, the relationship of cooperation, and not who is from which option so that the errors of this second and the best proposal pass, on the other hand, and that the law that is always somewhere on the border of crime, and that is always late revealed, so that the whole mandate goes away, is in another plan. And then let's not be surprised why the citizens of the politicians of any level have this opinion. I think the settings and the basic concept of this bill are in the right direction. We all have a lot of objections, but most of us seem to be going in that direction to make some things clear and get that one balance and one cooperation, but also the question of responsibility that seems to me needs to be sharpened more. To sharpen in this sense not only one disbandment but also responsibility where the central body and it is not a breach of the rights of the local self-government unit I will specifically say. If the mayor was elected and now we're asking a question, so that he's chosen by all the citizens who can touch him, don't touch him. Well, none of the options are, citizens who voted for any of the representatives of their political options, no one voted to steal them, to cheat on them. So here we go, and it's years from the wrong premise that if someone in the direct elections was elected, so just as we've made it possible for citizens and wanted it to be that he's almost immeasurable and that no one can ask him anything at all because the question of his work can't be asked at all but possibly the police or the State's attorney's office, but they usually come late when the matter has already gotten out of hand and when such one of his behaviors is not only out of the area of lawlessness but it's headed into one of those final areas of criminal responsibility, and then it's late it's a sophisticated whole policy. And such a bill, all the laws, and especially this bill of law where we are tormented, still with corruption at local level, which may be more extensive and more comprehensive than what was at the state level, and what our courts are now having their hands full to deal with as much as possible. Therefore, the question of who chooses is even less important, even though citizens like to choose directly and certainly should not give up on that concept. It is quite this simple but in practice it has produced a whole series of questions which this bill does not sort of want to solve. Thus, such questions and such settings, but also the public's great interest in the adoption of such laws, speaks more and more about the fact that people are interested in government or the quality of government in the local self-government unit because of the quality of their lives, because life is not living on some higher level, life is living not only in the city and the municipalities but also in that local branch. And when I'm talking about this, I'm always quoting and I'm going to quote the famous one... who says that the power of the free peoples lies in force or said the unit of local self-government or self-government but in local self-government. And I'll start at the end, there'll be no luck in cities or in municipalities unless we develop local self-government. We can say whatever we want about that concept earlier and that they have their own legal personality. Let's not be afraid to give people the right but we must automatically give them responsibility. It's the right and responsibility of the twin sisters, and they're not going anywhere without each other. I advocated that local self-government was given the importance of being once in our past in another political constitution, but what was good, which was bad to reject, despise but what was good as a mature citizen to accept, and by doing that, they were local communities. A lot of schools wouldn't exist. And today we talk about it as from the level of one square because usually the most beautiful places in one city or municipality are the administration, there's the mayor's desk, there's the mayor's desk, who cares that there's no lights like that because the usual center is arranged. And that's a question of life for his parents, and he wants his kid back alive from school if he doesn't have a flashlight if he hasn't paved that little trail. And we're obsessed with highways, bridges, and we don't see how much even in bigger cities where roads and what light our children are coming back to us. Now that's the question of this local law. And the only solution I see is to give greater authority to local self-government. I think we all agree on that, and with such responsibility, it will help the head of the local self-government units, both the mayor and the mayor, help him. And we've seen that often some incompatible political options are found in the local branch and really listen to what people need. Here's more about this principle thing I wouldn't do anymore, but I especially want to look back on Article 2. So let's not play with the citizens. It is good, perhaps here that it is different now and that the special weight is given to the voters themselves and their signatures, that is, the percentage provided for in Article 2, we are talking about a referendum, some specific issues that are important to that unit of local self-government, and we are proposing 20% of the total number of voters. I think that percentage is determined well, but that later there would be no specific interpretation, whether it depends on the majority of the council rather than on the team when 20 signatures were collected, as regards when examined by the central body i.e. of the ministry itself that the proposal is correct, so that it is in accordance with the law and the Constitution, that everything is on that formal side, that there is no longer a dilemma whether to join the referendum or not. We have to remove that and I think here and Mr. Minister sees that it should be so, while with these other authorities, it should be as a suggestion. It is absolutely acceptable and thus we gain a reputation among citizens. We've had enough and there's been some attempts with the referendum and it's not famously ended with speculation which on the one hand, which is because no matter who collected those votes, it's also important to point out in particular. He can't, he doesn't own them, that's what's important, but that's what's been traded. So in Croatia, we trade with everything and everything, and we still have an undeveloped market. It's really one big absurd, and that's what Mr. Minister needs, I believe you'll find a solution to put an end to it. With regard to the provision of Article 21, you should especially note this, it is not this, it is a good way but it is not enough. We need to contain corruption locally by law first, by making it impossible for them to split jobs. It's already a singing thing. So we see also the European Commission when it has criticised us for years and if we see from the central body it controls, which plays the role of controlling public procurement procedures, we see what the problem is. The biggest problem is the extra jobs, it's a big miracle. Extra jobs. That's what I've done with the law...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20187	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20188	But here's just one more sentence, please don't let a single job split below the level of a million kuna or up to a million kunas to defuse what is provided for by the Public Procurement Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20189	Thank you, too. A colleague named Damir Cain has applied for the debate. He's gone. He's losing his right. Look, fellow Lovrin, a thousand times we've said, a thousand times, we're going to repeat a thousand and a first time, so let's let it be seen. I didn't see you. You weren't seen by a colleague. Your colleague saw you and what we've got out of it now. I will now give you the right to the replica, of course I will give you the right to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20190	Mr. Vice President, I will not use the replica. I picked up the line, but I just didn't bang because I heard you on the occasion of a presidency saying to the MPs, don't slam the tiles on me, I see you. So as a decent person, I didn't want to knock. Here's what I'm gonna use in the debate to say what I thought.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20191	But on the contrary, this had to be someone else who said you weren't banging. So we need to make some eye contact to see if I've noticed either me or a colleague that you want to replicate because otherwise it's no use if someone lifts a replica, if no one sees it. So what I'm saying is quite logical. Damir Kajin loses the right to debate because he is not in the hall, and that right is now received by counterpart Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20192	Dear Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a little while ago, colleague Anticevic said that more authority should be given to local self-government and I fully agree with her, I support that. But how you will give great authority to local self-government in a fantasticly centralized country with these funds that local self-government gets. That's what it is, to go back to yesterday's debate and Minister Ostojic, the police minister, was actually mocking, wasn't last night's mockery, but this is today's mockery. The second thing, a lot of things are said, is said to be the question of cooperation between inability, the co-worker said, and many have spoken here, the issue of co-operation. So why don't we apply it to Parliament first, let's work together, let's not split it tightly like a barbed wire of opposition and position. The position brings everything, the opposition has no right to think, let's do it. I agree that the issue of exchangeability is very important and I agree that it is within the law. I don't agree, I don't know, I don't have that experience, I'm glad to sit here amongst the supermen who perform 15 functions and who are both mayors of large cities and who are parliamentary representatives, but as it goes, this country seems to be not doing a good job. Each will say to himself that the best mayor in the world, however, the situation in the country, and it is woven from these small shifts, proves quite the opposite, that it is not working. That's the other law, I'm not gonna talk about that other law right now because I'm gonna talk about it when it comes to order somewhere at midnight. It is therefore important to establish what the minister was talking about, this balance of power between the representative body and the executive body. How to do that, it's the greatest art. Is that what President Labourist Lesar said both fell when he was not accepted, not brought, not proposed a budget. If I were to claim one or the other and support one and the other, I would be wrong, I don't have that experience, I know the only experience I hear here and what I read in the paper and what I'm talking to people who work in local self-government. It is absolutely certain that their experiences are precious, but I am sorry that they differ from party to party, that something is wrong and it defuses fellow Anticevic when he says let's co-operate on local self-government. I haven't seen that cooperation anywhere unless it's an interesting collaboration, it's very little party. And I don't agree with those, they say the question of local self-government is just a matter of communals, which is why the party heads are all agreeing, because it's just communals. 'Cause they're really communal monks fantastic. The question of the referendum has been raised several times by Croatian Labourists at national level and it is quite certain that it is good to ask the question of the referendum at local level. The referendum should be basic civil law. Only a citizens' referendum can be held especially on the day of the election when they were deceived most often by what is also seen from the result presented and the other day on, yesterday, not the other day in the current hour. How citizens can influence local self-government. How? That's exactly the question. There must be some beating that citizens must have in their hands. Is that a referendum? I don't agree with the minister that 20% in the local community is easier to collect in a small place than 10% in the state. It's not possible to collect 10% at the state level as well as it knows, which is why 10% is accepted. Once in history this happens, because in Croatia the country has never held a referendum on such issues, you know it well. No referendum has succeeded, no referendums in the local environment have succeeded. For what? First, it can be that everything works fantasticly. That's probably no one here is going to say that everything is fantastic. The other thing is that citizens have given up, that they are full of politics, that they no longer believe even in change when they decide to do so in the referendum. And third because the authorities do not give it precisely because of such legal solutions that the referendums make impossible. It's not good either, they're not good solutions either in those countries that have too often referendums, but bogs are not good solutions in countries where there's never a single referendum. So we sitting here, too, are to blame for not showing, pointing to such solutions, have made such a solution in the House that would encourage people to trust us and really, to feel that their voice means something. So I urge that the second reading be considered whether these 20% signatures for the referendum are too much, whether it is easy in some place that has 5,000 inhabitants, in some municipality or in a municipality of 12,000 residents to collect 20% of signatures or some county, say Međimurje County with 120,000 inhabitants. Is it easy to collect what I know 15, 16, 17,000 signatures I wouldn't say is easy. Therefore, it is again too high a criterion. As far as I'm concerned, it seems to me that two electoral systems are being chased into one. If we have directly elected the mayor, the mayor and the mayor, or the mayor of Zagreb, and if we have chosen him for four years, which is why we are already allowing the deputy to enter the post after two years. A compromise may seem to me an election year, in an election year, under circumstances that need to be prescribed what are the circumstances. This seems to me, I think someone already said to me by colleagues as if we wanted to say this – half you will, half me. I'll step down after two years, and I'll give you half my term. But it's never the deputies to choose, it's the mayor's choice. You know that well. The mayor is elected, not his deputies. And if the mayor doesn't pass, he won't get that list because of the deputy mayor. So think carefully. Don't go from mistake to error. That Comadin law was introduced and relawed, because I think it was wrong. Here's the rest in the second part of the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20193	Thank you very much. We have reported three replicas to this exhibit. First respected representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20194	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague, I must agree right away at the beginning with you, with your conclusion that for the success of the operation of local self-government one of the key things will be real, but really real decentralisation because it is a basic prerequisite for local self-government to fulfil the function that citizens ultimately expect of it. And probably the basic prerequisite that we begin to come out of the crisis at all, because such a highly centralised one cannot be known about the problems that plague citizens in their territory. However, so I don't get away from this subject right now, but I didn't just like that finding of yours, but it's true. I'd just say about this law, a few things. The co-operation of the executive authority and the representative body, I think it is good that the applicant gave up those announced initial proposals so that the representative body can replace the directly elected mayor, mayor or mayor. So that's already one plus. Because that would really be absolutely undemocratic. Is this precisely the solution that the point at which one can be changed and the other is the budget that is now the issue of debate? So it's a good thing this isn't an emergency procedure, it's a first reading, so maybe we'll crystallize that it can remain a budget as a reason, maybe something else, maybe something quite third that the budget doesn't exist at all. But it's just as important, and I think it's good to point out, I'm going to finish, that the government has given up, that it has given up the proposal that the deputies choose in a different way regardless of their role, so from the chief executive. So we have good shifts in this proposal, first reading, if the proposer shows such good will as it was in those discussions before then I think we can get to the quality law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20195	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20196	A fellow Buric said in a highly moral country that there would be no doubt that the representative and executive body would co-operate because of the improvement of the local community, i.e. local self-government. That's for sure. However, I say again I do not argue because I have no experience, and we as a country have very little experience in directly elected executives in local self-government. It seems to me, I'm afraid, that there will be more cooperation between representative bodies and the executive body than between parties to improve local self-government, that exactly the opposite will be co-operated to survive, will not collapse each other, will not collapse the budget because they are falling as both say. Maybe I'm wrong, I don't know. So I say we should think about it well and agree fully with you it is good that this is the first reading and that a public debate is launched and, of course, if all of these concerns will be observed in the public debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20197	Second replica, the respected representative Marijan Skurić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20198	Well, first of all, I hope I'm wrong that in the introduction of this distinguished colleague of pointing out that it wasn't a little bit far-fetched with the finding that there are supermen here who have united a lot of functions, they have all the experiences of this world, I guess, that doesn't apply to us mayors. Vis-a-vis that we really have a lot of things to say in the local administration which is a matter of responsibility, which is a matter of duty and rights in defining goals, in contact if you're with your citizen every day then he asks you what you're going to do and what you're going to see tomorrow. I would really like you to have no demagogy in that part because at the local level there is no demagogy, it's just work and responsibility so that you have a little more responsibility, so here we hope that in that part at least one of you will be the chairman of a local board or a city that you can see in particular what it is the work of mayors, mayors, and not demagogy. I say, and at least we expect here is the captain of the Sundays or at least here is your Mr. Lesar to be mayor of the City of Zagreb. Then we'll really have the full right to have a lot of experience with uniting functions at our local level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20199	The replica corresponds to a respected colleague, Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20200	I didn't get it right now, the last thing you said when we'd probably win Zagreb or something, and then we'd have the right to talk. We have the right to speak whenever we want. Yes, I meant mayors who act here in the Parliament, MPs. I can't, so I said under the second point I'll say it, I can't do two jobs at the same time in two different places. You're not doing a good job.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20201	And the third replica, the honourable representative of Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20202	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Vuksic, here, I will continue my line in this tone of controversy between you and my colleagues. It is that, in some ways, I, too, will stand in the defense of my fellow mayors, mayors, but not in such a way as to defend them in that sense when you say that some of them are supermen, but rather in such a way that many people today, mostly in public, are saying that the lists for Parliament are open lists in which to vote personally for the names of individual MPs. In this context, and we can say that all politics is, in fact, a local policy, chiefs and mayors who are directly elected by the will of citizens would actually be to say unfairly to them to prevent them from being conditionally spoken to high policy. So they can't sit in this Parliament. And that's why it seems discriminatory to me. And the other thing about deputy mayors and mayors and mayors and mayors I think it's fair to them when they go to elections, the truth they choose in a package with the mayor, the mayor here I agree with you, but it's fair to them that they know their value in that story. Because if we're just putting them on the list, actually choosing the package so they'll be there, to fill out that quota, then it's not right either. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20203	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20204	Mr. Sagar, I agree with you in part. No one should be prevented from breaking into high politics, but everyone chooses. The thing is, can one man do two jobs well? Can he sit at the same time in Chakovec, Varazdin, Osijek, Pula and here in Parliament? When he's not in Parliament, then he doesn't do his job. I'm sorry, there's even one thesis that's really wrong that says when the mayor's in Parliament, then there's more room for lobbying. Well, that's discrimination against the other mayors. Excuse me, when I say superman that you can't perform 14 functions because there are some, come on 2 you can't not 14. You're discriminating everyone else. So there will be 10 mayors who will have opportunities for lobbying, the other mayors who do not sit in the Parliament are the mayors of the second row because they are not in the Parliament. That's what's happening today. And that will eventually be fought for these things, and eventually it will come to the attention of the majority of the Parliament that they can't, regardless of whether it's SDP's, Laburist, HDZ, Liberal, it doesn't matter which mayor if such a legal solution is passed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20205	We're continuing an individual debate. It's the Honorable Representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20206	Dear Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, here is this debate that preceded a few good answers and raised a few good questions. In fact, I'm a 12-year mayor, almost 12 years old, and I've tried all this, and I know what it's like to live in a Croatian local self-government. There's more of my colleagues here that I often see and hang out with. And all that is said here now in this previous debate I must say that there is truth in both sides. That it is impossible to be in two places at the same time it is true, that it is easier for those in Zagreb to lobby for their local self-government and that is true, and even for the word here about discrimination, there is this discrimination, but it is in another law that should have been with these two alike, which is the Law on the financing of local self-government. Because we as a local self-government in Croatia are definitely discriminated against because the state is terribly centralised today without sharp nails and tenacity is very difficult to achieve something for its local self-government, in the extreme case of situations that often, by certain regulations, rules or something else, impose costs, reduce resources, which we cannot influence at all, which is in breach in the extreme case of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which this House has fully accepted. So all of these discussions that are actually have truths on one side and on the other, of course, that each of us is looking at it from our own angle, that each of us is looking at it the way he sees it because he's in another position or another situation. Frankly speaking of the circumstances, I've found myself in this situation that's been spoken of here, and I have to say that it's very difficult to do two jobs, that you can do it in a way that you're living in your city every day, so you get up early in the morning and you lie up late in the night, and you're doing the same thing for the weekend, but that's not the dynamics, that intensity you'd have that you're always there. That's right. That's a fact. On the other hand, if you have a good team that can do things, and today it's very easy to communicate, then that team in a particular coordination is doing the job, and you're told what's here before to bring in the money, to secure and make sure that they have how and how to do it. And what's most important in this part is that none of us get paid for two jobs. That's a fact. It's just for one. So this other part is volunteering, and now we could open up a whole series of more questions, but that's going to be more interesting under that other point where some things have to be corrected a little bit, too, and then they're going to give answers to some of these questions that are now mentioned here. But let me look back on a few suggestions regarding this law. I think that he should actually be more elaborately elaborated, that he really should start over and that it is necessary to make a new Law on Local Self-Government, with all the elements that are necessary and I repeat, is not the essence of the law of changing mayors, mayors or mayors of the municipality, the essence of the law is that local self-government can function normally, that it can normally carry out its tasks. Today local self-government is definitely in nature a communal self-government, because we did not allow local self-government to do anything more. That's why she got down to it literally. And it's not normal today in local self-government that we're practically working almost, so we all have the same law, we have the same obligations, we have to figure it out, we have to divide what are the obligations of municipalities, which are cities, which are county. You have a situation that today the county has taken over part of local self-government, the authority of local self-government. It's been talked about here today. You have situations that state administration offices have been formed around the county, that we have parallel systems, that we have a accumulation of bureaucratic apparatus that doesn't know what to do, so we write reports daily. And that's a fact. For someone to have to justify their job. And it's not your people's fault, it's not their fault, it's someone's calling it that. And we're talking about this here today, and now I'm going with proposals on this bill, and we're talking about the fact that the presidents should be named as a team. I remind you again, people, the headmasters have been chosen in a different way. These same leaders who have been elected under some other law will remain employees of local self-government, so I ask you how many new people will be in local self-government, who will pay for it? Because these existing ones, by virtue of their right, will remain there. My proposal is to consider the possibility, that, okay, local self-government leaders have the ability to change, choose, but let it be from the ranks of existing employees, so we will allow one competition to both officials and residents to fight to compete, to prove to encourage their work and that whoever comes for the head of local self-government, regionally, could change something and set up a team. The intensity that's supposed to be on me is that they're non-partisan people. Absolutely non-partisan. And when we have people in the state who are going to be professional and who are not primarily looking at political petty interest, but at the profession, and when we're doing politics, we're going to start to get better. So let's start with local self-government. She's a wonderful place to start such a good story. It's also about local committees and city halls. They were even told here that they should be given more power, that they should be given funds, that they should be given finance. This is basically very difficult to implement today, because they are literally one advisory body and they are very difficult to function and I don't know what it would look like to budgets of municipalities and cities if even this tiny little one had to be separated into even smaller elements and particles, I think it would cause one general chaos and it wouldn't be good. But that local self-government is necessary. Yeah. Absolutely. It needs to be formed, people need to be asked about what they decide, they need to be provided with some means in which they can decide, in which way they can go. But there's one important thing in this part. Local self-government as a local self-government at the moment is wrongly placed and we have an election to the local boards of the city quarter of about 10, 12%. It's nothing to say to the public's interest and it's not a good picture. Now let's change the matter and put in this law that elections for local committees will be held at the same time as local elections. So we're going to get a little bigger sample, we're going to get a little more people out, we're going to get a better local self-government, that's all, and, of course, local self-government. What's even more important here to say what I think and think, I don't think it should be allowed in any case that one half of the council has the authority and the ability to start to make a decision on the referendum and make big costs to the local self-government so that it really should be a two-thirds majority, so let that referendum be. We don't mind even reducing the number of signatures for the referendum, I don't mind it, so I don't mind disbanding both the council and the mayor, the mayor or the mayor. Because if we get into a situation where the head of local self-government doesn't work with its council or assembly in principle, that local self-government doesn't work, and there's no logic. But those who raise the referendum question they must bear responsibility because if a referendum doesn't pass nothing happens, the costs are made, who's responsible? Someone has to be held accountable. It's a very important thing. Here's what I'm asking you to do. I'm asking you to think about it a little bit and see it too. And another thing, if there was a referendum then it should be determined in the law that the head of local self-government could be replaced with at least as many votes as he won in the elections, not that half the votes of what he won in the elections later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20207	Thank you, too. We have one replica. Dear Representative Boris Kovacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20208	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's to replicating my esteemed colleague to the Mayor of the Cross, since I know well that I know the situation in most particularly small units of local self-government mostly in municipalities, so I really don't know where you came from when you were talking about the headscarves so that they could be filled in from the ranks of existing employees. I can assure you that's impossible. We know the situation is that from northwestern Croatia but also beyond, and this is a very common case that it is impossible not only humane but it has both professionally and professionally but there are other reasons. And as for the elections themselves at the same time, I've been doing that thought even so, I've suggested we spend it in my local self-government unit, but I'm afraid the Constitution should be changed as well. Because there is one decision or opinion of the Constitutional Court where it is impossible to hold elections on the same day for the units of local self-government and the councils of local committees or local self-government. There are certain reasons for that. So it's one complex question and it's not easy to solve. I'm afraid it can't be solved only by the provisions of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20209	The replica corresponds to the esteemed representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20210	Well, we've had our chance to talk about it like this for the very reason that from small local self-governments in the municipalities, here's because HSS has a lot of community chiefs, so I'm very familiar with this problem. I have to say, that's the problem because these small municipalities don't have the strength or pay the people they have. If we're going to allow these other people to change, we're going to get an even bigger increase and there's going to be bigger problems. That's where the idea came from.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20211	We're continuing an individual debate. Dear Representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20212	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. It is good that this law is in the first reading because since it touches large and changes the importance of direct choice I hope you will withdraw it from the procedure until the second reading or you will thoroughly change it in the very being of this law. And there have already been a lot of remarks today that have been located well, and I think we should respect them. By 2005, we had a law by which local leaders were elected by a representative body elected in the elections. It was often heard from the opposition that it was time to introduce a direct election of leaders and that it would be good for local democracy because there have been cases to conduct local elections the party gets 7 councilors, say of 15 but could not have its mayor or mayor. And it was then called political corruption, it simply turned into certain groups, and that group would put its leaders on. And I think that was a good thing back then. They agreed at that time with power and opposition, and I think even by consensus a law has been passed that allowed the direct selection of local leaders. It has often been said that these leaders who were elected in that first way looked at their party leaders and their backs at the citizens. This direct choice has changed in some way, and despite the many objections that it may have entered into this unprepared to the end that certain questions will remain unresolved. However, the law came into life and we had a direct choice in 2000. This choice has brought stability to a local level which is right up to these last few months when the current coalition and authorities propose a new bill, in a way trying, and this I have gained the impression from the minister's exposure that we are trying to force into this local level that has some stability now, but also the shortcomings that need to be recognised, introduce instability. We want to impose in some way the exchangeability of directly elected leaders and then, of course, through the provisions of the law, we try to fit into the story that the council would have the opportunity to replace the local head because it would not bring a budget for a budget year. What and what kind of message are we sending like that? We return to saying again in 2005, 2004 or that year before the fundamental purpose of such a law that we now have becomes that the possible purchase of councilors changes the will of the voters. We come to a moral issue, we come to the fact that as the minister says they will all respect each other and in this mutual respect they will bring that budget and everything will happen nicely. But here I will look back at the part about why the budget is not good or the subject is affected in order to bring something down or to replace it, because besides the budget local self-government brings other documents. We have a spatial plan here, and we have a mandatory report from the mayor, the mayor, the mayor, six months on the implementation of a particular policy in the area of our local self-government. Why the budget? The budget is only one I say document which, as we heard, forms a policy at a certain part of a particular administrative unit, but it is subject to change over the year. You over the year can have a few budget rebalances. What happens if you adopt the budget, you fill out the form, and you don't adopt it in the 9th or 10th month of the budget rebalancing. We are left with a basic document, the mayor remains in the room whether he has been legally or illegally working, and the government continues its path to a new budget. So you had one example of one leader who came in last year and said I was an independent chief, but in the council I have a group, a coalition of other parties, what happened to me? I offered them a budget of $13.5 million, and they gave me a budget of 4.5 million. How am I supposed to work, how am I supposed to work? They brought me the budget, and we're done. This local environment goes back, doesn't perform its functions, the chief's hands are blocked, everyone's got their receipts, the chief's got the pay, the council has their fees, and the local self-government is turning back. Can we, by virtue of this law, prevent such an event? When we talk about the budget, we can talk in two directions, one direction is when everyone makes a nice deal, both the mayor and the mayor and the councilman's group, we make a budget. There's nothing going on in that middle, everything's bad, but everything's going through, and we can behave in power for four years, and the middle is going backwards. Is it not a better provision that we have proposed today that, based on the provisions of this law, a group of councilmen have the right to call a referendum, to determine the number that will be sufficient to re-examine the local leader's policy and thus to come up with new elections if the two directly selected segments cannot function? What will happen to us with the application of this law and what a possibility there is. With little political will, the mayor of Zagreb can be the President of the Parliament, he can decide for himself that the mayor of Zagreb is the mayor of appointments in the Holding of all supervisory committees, all council members or I know, everything they do not have in all these structures, can impose his budget on the Assembly and execute it himself, and no one can replace the citizens, the government, the Parliament or the High Administrative Court or the Constitutional Court. It's a possibility stemming from this law. I say, but only with a little political will. And I'm sorry that this bill left what we had as an amendment at the 12th month when you demoted the county institution because you allowed the mayors to become ministers through the law and you made it possible for a deputy to run such self-government. If one deputy can run such a regional self-government for a year and 6.7 months, why are we talking today about three deputies, two deputies or a mayor and several deputies, etc. Are we spending money in vain? It's the same situation at local level. Although it's not a question of this law, but the next question I'm going to point out is that perhaps we should discuss the mandates. Today, you may be the captain of a five-term term of office for 20 years. For 25 years, you can become a professional captain your whole life. Can we limit that? The President of the Republic can be twice, the Prime Minister is also unlimited but this is already a little harder, but the local leader can be 25 years and 30. Is that a good thing? And what may be the most important question I say regarding the second law, but I will mention what I will do when here in my county we have a coalition of SDP and HNS, HSU, IDS, HSLS, ARS, SDA, the ZS coalition of 7, 8, 9, 10 parties going to the election group and we simply derivate everything we've been talking about here today all morning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20213	Thank you, too. On this exhibit we have a replica of dear dear Zgrebec, Vice President of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20214	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd like to say in the replica my opinion in fact why it's good that the budget is exactly the act that will measure whether the council and the mayor, the mayor and the mayor can be dissolved. Because it is the most important not only financial but also political act in one year. And through it, the interests of the citizens must actually be brought into line. Therefore, the only authorising budgetor in the local or regional unit is the mayor, mayor or mayor, and can only be accepted or brought by the council. He can bring it in the form he suggested, he can amend it with amendments, but in accordance with the Budget Law, he cannot break the proposed amount, because the mayor, mayor or mayor is now also responsible for financial discipline lately. Therefore, and the Council can correct the budget, it is in its jurisdiction. If the unsatisfactor is unsatisfactory, he has the possibility of withdrawing other sequencings. So either implement it or resign, but it can't be that you don't bring the budget just to obstruct or disband the council or to replace the mayor, mayor or mayor. I think it's a good act on the basis of which it is actually necessary to bring the interests of citizens into line, not the councils or mayors, mayors and mayors.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20215	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20216	Well, I don't think so, because I say there's a question as to who determines the interest of the citizens, in which way I base this law. How are the citizens being graded? As it's estimated, I don't know the Mayor of the Cross whether he's good or not. Only in the election. How do we determine the interest of citizens in some local self-government annually? Is it on the budget? I don't think so. So I'm saying that it's not good that we kicked the citizens out of that section of impeachment because of a referendum that's so inconclusive and that it doesn't make sense if we introduce what the minister said was the possibility that the referendum would remain. Then there is enough provision that the council can launch an initiative for a referendum, and that the number of signatures collected and the direct participation of citizens say whether we are satisfied with the mayor, mayor or not. And that can't possibly be the document I was talking about which is, I say, subject to and with which things are going to happen because it happens every day. And I'm afraid I'm saying that in this way those who are now called local sheriffs, who were immeasurable with this law, I've already said it would become local emperors, but very soon replaced. And that's not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20217	The individual debate will now continue with the distinguished representative Josip Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20218	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. There's a lot of things that's been said here. It's late, and I'm afraid the minister won't be able to do it all day, okay? You got it. I'm afraid the MPs won't be able to monitor each other's exposure so concentrated, so I'm just going to concentrate on the four points that I consider relevant in this proposal. Not so much to refer to the legal provisions themselves. What are four things? First, let me say in the introduction Yeah, yeah. [[Intruder Stazic: Dear colleague Kregar, speak in the microphone to you...]] I thought colleagues deserved a little more attention. It's a little trick to draw attention to what you're reading like that, of course. [[Intruder Stazic: But it will hear you better when you speak in the microphone.]] You spoke to Mr. Minister of Stability as one virtue of every political order. You were also talking about the issue of balance. They also mentioned the fact that wise and intelligent people, regardless of whether they speak out of the congregation or are mayors and mayors, can reach a mature compromise. So here's the question, why are we changing anything? So we won't change human nature. However, the fact is that we had one solution that we were not satisfied with, and it was, firstly, about the issues of responsibility. Because the responsibility we know so far has been based on two rather unfortunate things, one inexhaustible circumstance. The mayor's duty is to cease his death. We don't want to, but the fact is quite inexorable. The second was that one of the reasons was a judicial verdict. It may be a bad time to talk about it, but a powerful verdict to be a power of attorney requires a time course of more than a year, so the term of office will be over before there will be a judicial verdict. So these two circumstances cannot be considered relevant at all for the question of the impeachment of the mayor, the mayor. The third also contains this impossible condition of 51% turnout on something that I think my colleague Mlakar has well called an election impeachment rather than a referendum. It was also for mathematical and normative reasons. 51% is a lot, but even as we said no voter lists were arranged and so on became impossible mathematically. What is very important in the political sense would mean that such a form could, so it was prescribed, be applied only in extremely extreme cases. Therefore, responsibility was not what I would like to say that the first thing that is to be achieved and must be achieved by this law by raising the level of responsibility of the executive, not just balance and not just stability. That's why, of course, I'd like to warn you that the shift is not something we want. Why would they want that? Well, that's one tough case for a local unit, for a local community. But you shouldn't be afraid of the election, and that's what you said, that such a situation is a conflict between the executive and the Assembly in the local unit. I'll simplify it a little bit. It's like a bad marriage, and then choices are better, or divorce is better than a bad situation. But using that example once a year is not enough. You have linked the only possibility of recalling or launching this procedure which we call here a referendum with the adoption or not the adoption of a budget. This is too little and too weak to strengthen the responsibility that is at stake here, which is the main point we are arguing about where we are looking for better technical solutions if we want to raise responsibility then we should probably consider what was before and in the proposals to connect other elements with the possibility of calling such a procedure. So we have in the assembly the obligation of the mayor and the captain to submit the Work Report twice a year. So why don't you, along with all the fences and the technical solution of the fairly strong majority, why don't these be also possible grounds for recall? Why not lower that referendum threshold to a lower percentage of 35%, allow for signatures to be collected, and thus initiate recall proceedings? I mean, I'm not giving you any solution, but I'm returning you to what was already in your proposals, I think that fear of choice and fear of instability shouldn't affect this solution that in itself too little responsibility by the executive in the local unit. I'm cutting time short so I'm going to have to go to other things, but I hope to guess something in this one that others used to say. Another thing I am not quite sure about is that this solution does not leave a very important principle, which is that the congregation decides on human and similar appointments. Here we can weaken the role of the congregation by saying to the commissioner, mayor, etc. to condition some of the votes and the like, but what is important is that we do not only have an example of a small town that has five municipal companies or one utility. We, if we give power to the executive authority to appoint actually leading people in these companies and also in cultural institutions, for example. We've given inadequately great authority to the executive body. It has always been the authority of the assembly by nature of things, not to refer to documents and European experiences, and should remain so. The other thing I agree with is that it wouldn't have turned out if I hadn't said so is the necessity for the mayor to play a role in managing and coordinating municipal and other activities. Sure, but not in that way, he's setting up people to lead them. There are other possibilities, coordinations and things like that. The third thing is angry self-government. That is, counterpart Anticevic said exactly, it is one neglected possibility of engagement and greater citizens' activities in making decisions at local level. Of course, I think it's more important to change the original legislation, but that's the second item of the agenda. We now have a local self-government that has neither the account nor the legal personality nor the independence it should have in order to have some kind of responsibility. Powers, mandates, finances must be in some proportion to our expectations that people are engaged. So, let's say, I'm going to use an example that we know well, until the city of Zagreb absolutely local self-government can't decide anything simply inhibits, halts and freezes any activity of the citizens, they know they won't be heard. That's why they don't go to the election for those bodies. And in the end, the fourth perspective is. It is said that the difference between politicians and statesmen is that politicians are thinking about the next election, and statesmen are thinking about the future. It's very visible here. I know it's a difficult task to reconcile those two approaches. In this case the elections are approaching, we cannot allow them to take place in conditions of uncertainty. That you don't know what will happen to those who compete for leading roles or functions in the local environment. But there's one more thing. We here must make sure that we do not prevent those processes that are defined here or defined as a particular problem. The question was and I totally agree with that, so I think the vast majority of people agree with that is also compatibility. Well, you can't perform a lot of functions at the same time. We must change the original model, etc., but we must also change one logic that solves this law, which is the logic of the relationship of responsibility for performing local functions. The disproportionateness that this law establishes in relation to the executive and the assembly government is not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20219	Thank you, dear colleague Kregar. You still have a chance to respond to six replicas. The first is Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20220	Well, I'd just like to ask the honourable representative first whether he's in favour of the mayor's referendum shift, which is first and foremost, and I think it's all of that, and about these relations between the executive and the representative authorities, I think they must and should be defined by law, because they are two different kinds of authorities. Besides, if a local self-government unit had judicial authority, then it would be in the far line and a small state. On the other hand, the former law, i.e. the existing law, for example. He hasn't defined one thing, and we're talking about raising that responsibility. So you had the Fiscal Responsibility Act, you also had the Budget Act, which was defined until the budget was passed, among other things, in local self-government, but that law which was obviously written so quickly, and today it is said that this law is going on quickly, that the short deadlines of adoption, etc., had one provision where the head of local self-government did not have to propose a budget at all, and then the council was disbanded. So what I was saying on behalf of the club, we must not leave the basic provisions of the direct election, unless someone is directly elected then can be replaced through the referendum. And what you say to me is clear to me is not 50% plus one vote, but there needs to be a model that will be accepted, so to speak, acceptable to the citizens, but also to the one who is directly elected, that it does not turn out that, under this existing referendum law, one citizen or two citizens could decide on Croatia's entry into the European Union, as this law is written, the existing law on referendum, or amendments to the Law on referendum.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20221	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20222	Very short. I advocate that the responsibility of each holder of the post is established during the term of office, not only in the four-year elections. Which form will be proposed here, which I am very interested in, and I am also for a solution that involves collecting signatures and... , that is, for the majority who will decide to start the procedure in the assembly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that would be a minimum balance keeping, which is why I'm up for it. I'm aware of the fact that there will be pressure and destabilization at local level, and the desire to discuss the choices in which someone... but it should be made more difficult, and that is the technical solution of percentage height and number of signatures. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] As for the speed of changing the law, I mean the debate on these issues that are governed by this law and the Law on Elections has practically not stopped since 1992, so this is not just about this... experience from pigs or July to today, rather than having quite even nuanced, crystallized views of a large number of experts in this regard. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] I have a feeling that we're approaching a new quality now, and that's to open up those questions that were previously declared... , and it's better democratic to choose directly than indirectly, but... [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] what we agreed on and where we can discuss is whether we have instruments that allow responsibility within a period of four years. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20223	Thank you. Next up is the replica of my colleague, Tanja Wrbat.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20224	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Craiger, here's what you've encouraged me to do in this replica. You have been very focused on the responsibility of the executive body, but I would like to appeal to the responsibility of members of the assembly and city councils, because we have very many copies that both members of the city's assemblies and municipal and city councils are obstructing the intentional work of the executive authority, which is, in my view, also the responsibility of political parties. I know it's hard to regulate the possibility of running, but it would be very good if in some legal way the responsibility of council members could be regulated, because there have been cases where absurd amendments to city budgets were proposed, when cuts were proposed, when they were proposed to remove salaries because these mayors, or the mayors, did not have majority in their representative bodies. Therefore, it should be possible for the executive to do its job and also for the representative authorities to do so in the interests of the citizens, because we forget that this is about the interest of citizens living in that particular environment. Many, you said at one point that we shouldn't always have small environments in front of us that have small businesses, one or two city companies. I would appeal to all who are from Zagreb, do not keep your eyes on the situation that is in the City of Zagreb, because then the rest of Croatia can be unfortunately, I will dare say, although I come from a party that has most of the city council of Zagreb, or in the congregation, then we are all in the smaller areas of the situation. So at this point we can't diversify the functional units of local self-government, but I think that's the future we need to pursue, and that's where better solutions will be found.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20225	Answer to the replica of colleague Josip Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20226	It'll be very easy for me to agree with most of what you said except for the last one. So I'm in favour and I accept that responsibility can't be just on the executive board. but always and all the instruments of responsibility put in fact on the decision of the assembly would not be good. Let me explain. A local community executive should and may have the opportunity to resign and challenge new elections. That MPs will have the same degree of responsibility with the executive authority will not have. Well, there's also said who goes to the mayor and the mayor's prison, well usually not for political reasons, this is about politics, not crime. But that's not a balance. What responsibility needs is both sides. So the assembly cannot be intact in the four - year term, which means this proposal, in fact, but also the holders of the executive authority are not entirely deprived of any possibility of affecting the political destiny of the congregation. In the one where he suffers, of course, it is the fact that I am using the example of Zagreb, only because it is really the most visible here that we have the problem of diversity in the system that we have Zagreb and we have Muč as if they are the same units. And they are not the same units at all, nor can they carry the same political infrastructure of decision-making. I can't. But we haven't fixed it yet. What I would like, of course, and what I have suggested more precisely is an amendment to the number and structure of the territorial division of the Republic of Croatia, but that is one other thing. I use Zagreb more as an example of an environment in which it simply won't be able to go those things that, because of a smaller size, can still be controlled, agree diplomatically executed. Not because of the circumstances of the conflict, but because of the size, it becomes illogical.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20227	Thank you very much. Next replica, Vice President Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20228	Thank you very much. So I fully agree with you that the budget can't be the only opportunity because it's once a year, but I don't think there should be a tax on a situation at all because we don't have enough imagination to imagine what kind of situations local self-government units can come into. So who could have imagined that we would have a directly elected mayor who refused to come to work and... his deputy who was coming to work. We don't have enough imagination that any council that's completely irresponsible can do to a serious and good mayor. So I fully agree with you, this is a dynamic relationship and it has to be checked 365 days a year over and over again. With that, I would not even introduce a two-thirds majority in the council to relieve the mayor. The mayor can disband the council but every time and always to the elections both. I'm sure the council will be serious enough not to replace both the mayor and replace themselves if that's why they don't have a particularly valid reason. They must see that units of local self-government are being destroyed. And then they'll say two-thirds of the council will say so let's go to the election so the citizens will sign off on it so they'll pick us again and see what this one does there directly. And the vice versatile mayor can make excellent suggestions. Who? Because they're spiteful because they fall into a different political option, they refuse. What would he say, namely that the citizens would have to spend a year on that. His right to be said now is up to you and me, so let the citizens rule. It's one principled option principled option not to give taxively some reason because I assure you here as many imaginations as we're going to use, we won't be able to predict everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20229	Answer to the replica of colleague Josip Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20230	It's a short answer. I agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20231	The next replica of Đurjica twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20232	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's Professor Kregar I've listened to you very carefully and I'd like a little bit since you're very well directed to the City of Zagreb Assembly and these relations between the mayor and the city and you see just one law is needed. But I don't think you said well and suggested that it should be the assembly that will elect members of the company's management. Here, for example. While they were, I would say more than the mayor and the assembly's love relations namely he was a member of the SDP at the time it all worked fantasticly there was no grudge. When the mayor came out of the SDP, nothing worked anymore, so then the Assembly replaced the holding office with all its staff, so everything is inside the Zagreb City Holding, I'm sorry about my colleagues Vrbat, but we just have to say it and point out some of the problems are absolutely members of SDP and HNS, and we see what Zagreb Holding fell on. He fell to a minus of 378 million last year on debts of billions that every day 10 per 20 people are quietly employed in this same Holding, naked people simply pile up. What's the worst thing about them working in the field is that a bunch of executive staff, deputy deputy deputy deputy, assistant, advisor, special advisor, best advisor, etc. And then there's still some of them, and that's about responsibility. I think it's so unfortunately in our society says one fellow rubber is and should be determined. So how can one mayor of a Rab be allowed to one day activate his pension so he's no longer mayor, and the other day to reactivate the mayoral post? Well, it should be the same law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20233	Thank you very much. Answer to the replica of colleague Josip Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20234	... As far as Holding is concerned, I must admit that you are guessing my dissatisfaction with how Holding works, but that's what the congregation thinks. [[Specially enabled.]] What we've been trying to do is improve that system because you're not going to argue that it would be better if the mayor had left to appoint the board of directors and the management of the holding that he's been doing for years, and that didn't bring good results. Moreover, the current management of the Holding pays the price of these failures. What I resent is that it was not clearly said by that same administration. And as for who's choosing it here, I've prepared a lot, and this is what I've been doing, here in this book there are some 136 countries and their local self-government. I can't see anywhere that executive power except in dictatorships sets up members of those bodies. In fact, it is explicitly said here that this should be the clear jurisdiction of the congregation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20235	Thank you very much. The Republic has a colleague, Branko Hrg. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20236	Here's a respected professor, just two things. One thing you mentioned was responsibility. The responsibility absolutely yes, only the directly elected local official is already in that choice more exposed to responsibility than those selected from the list. Perhaps the answer to responsibility should be that the lists are open, and then it might be a little bit more complicated. And as far as local self-government is concerned absolutely that local self-government, it should also be laid down, that it will not be some small local committees per hundred people, but we have another example of bad practice. The city of Zagreb has no local self-government, the city of Zagreb is a county and has urban districts that belong to the category of local self-government and has local committees that belong to the category of local self-government. Because the city district with a few kunas of those it has but it can't be said there are 80,000 inhabitants, it can't be said that it's local self-government and there's some things to be done and done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20237	Replication response, colleague Joseph Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20238	As far as responsibility is concerned, of course the responsibility of the individual chosen is somewhat different from the responsibility of those selected on the lists. I will continue to advocate changing the electoral system, but what needs to be noticed is the fact that there are always different political options in the assembly. Not one attitude and one voice that is controlled and debated openly. I think that's why the congregation is the right body to make such decisions. It gives the opposition and the minority the right, and the right of the minority was actually a measure of democracy. And just to say last, yes, in Zagreb there is a very limited local or local self-government. You have a municipality, or district of Sesveta that is larger than Zadar or Varazdin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20239	Further replica, counterpart Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20240	Thank you. I would also refer briefly to this of yours regarding local self-government. These proposed these two laws actually touch very little on the problems that are quite present, in fact, in defining the work and the way of choice and local administration because everything is left to these statutes of municipalities and cities. Now let me give you an example. So the City of Zagreb, which has 17 urban districts with an average population of 50 thousand, has 11 members in the council of the city district, if it has up to 30,000 inhabitants. We had recently in Požeko-Slavon County elections for the City of Pleternica where we had elections in villages that have registered 16 voters. The statute of the town of Pleternica defined that elections were held in one such unit, they were called the local committee, there are 16 registered voters of which 5 can walk and these 5 we could form a local committee. So such units are pointless. The statutes of municipalities and cities are left to define, according to their various imagined criteria, how large the voters will be, how many members there will be in some local committee and there are so many malformations, deviations and so many inequalities. And there is also inequality when it comes to the way of candidacy in the local committee elections, and then in some municipalities and cities, one way of looking for candidacy, one kind of documentation, in some others, in some others, in some others, of course some have asked for certified statements from a public notary, which is nonsense when it comes to elections in a village that has 16 inhabitants and so on. The law also does not look back but leaves the statutes of municipalities and cities to further define it. I think you might want to get into that problem a little bit more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20241	Thank you very much. And the last line has a colleague named Zlatko Komadin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20242	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I only answered the line to appeal to change the Rules of Procedure as quickly as possible and to end this kind of replica. I'll give an explanation in the next line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20243	Next in an individual debate, colleague Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20244	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So here we are discussing today the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, which is indeed an extremely important organic law, a law which discusses the constitutional right of citizens to local self-government. So, Mr. Minister, here I think that it is really a law that deserves a whole new text because this is about the seventh amendment, that it is difficult for this text to get along and that we could really discuss this whole topic. And we hear from the debate and it is really difficult to bring one legal functioning of the body, the relationship of the body in one unit the size of the city of Zagreb, the town of Split and, let's say, the municipality that has five hundred inhabitants. That's a pretty impossible mission. We have heard and heard a lot about responsibility and I agree that the responsibility of the executive authority at each level must therefore be in some way controlled and verifiable during the four-year term. That's what I wanted to replicate to my colleague Antičević when I didn't have a chance, and here's what my colleague Kregar was talking about. I absolutely agree with that responsibility, but I think that this amendment and the addition of the law reduces the verification of responsibility in relation to the existing law. Why? I do not doubt the provision of Article 47 concerning the simultaneous disbanding of the representative body and the resolution of the municipal chief, mayor, mayor and their deputies. So this balance between the power to say so to the representative body and the executive body is not bad, but the question is why only on the budget, why does Stazic say that we can't taxively count when all this should be because we don't have enough imagination and enough imagination. But here, I would suggest, we may have some standard that could cover such cases, which is, for example, the occasion of the adoption of those acts of generals that must be brought in within a period of time. If you remember, it was a timely provision to disband representative bodies if they do not adopt a spatial plan within a specified time limit. Of course, the budget is an extremely important and fundamental political act. I agree that it must articulate all interests of all citizens, but also, for example, the spatial plan is also one of the fundamental acts that outlines the actual direction of development, the long-term development of the local self-government unit or others, but now I can't remember but the ministry will certainly be able to look at the legislation and see what are the essential general acts that are binding to be adopted within certain deadlines, so this might be a criterion for this mutual balance in disbanding. There might be some doubt there that the central government then interferes with this local self-government, but here it may be which times it is not unconstitutional. I would say here what is certainly not good about this responsibility, which is that we have completely deleted the article 4ob so far. who spoke about when a representative body could call a referendum on the resolution of the municipal chief, mayor and mayor. So now this responsibility of the mayor can be checked only on the occasion of the adoption of the budget. So he can work illegally, he can not implement, obstruct the council, not implement decisions of municipal and city councils. So there is no mechanism to verify this responsibility, and ultimately there is no mechanism for those citizens who have chosen it to question that responsibility for 4 years. So, certainly, the reason why it cannot be valid is that something that is stipulated by law, and it was not feasible to completely throw out of that law for the reason that it is necessary to find a way, liberating me to say the referendum conditions so that it could be implemented. So much for this responsibility. There's still a series of misunderstandings here. So, first of all, I'd like to say these provisions about the executive body. So they are now defined as the executive body is defined mayor, mayor and chief, so it is now added that it is the executive body and deputy acting as municipal chief in cases where this term has ceased after two years. And now he's wondering what's going on with that deputy who's not acting on duty, whether or not he belongs to the executive body. The question is how will the deputy act when he starts acting as mayor, for example, as he will be called the first deputy, acting officer, mayor. How the acts issued by that person will read. Is it going to be that she's being betrayed by the mayor's behavioral officer? And where in the law when defined by the mayor in another law will it apply to him, etc. I think these provisions are not to be held if the mayor, the mayor or the mayor ceases his term for various reasons after two years of acting in office opens up a fantastic opportunity to agree on half the term, to go ahead to the elections like that, and we'll agree I'll be half, you'll be half. And now we're what's already been said here, and here's what's happened, and now we've passed the law. So, I don't think that's good. The next thing you should talk about, so this first reading has a series of nomotechnical things to talk about, but of course there's no time. The next thing I want to say is the article 22, which sets out that the presidents are appointed for a period of four years and that they can be re-appointed. are you aware that by doing so, you are bringing the headmasters into an extremely unequal position compared to all local officials, but also to the elected leaders. And are you also aware that the Law on Officials and Detentions in the Local Self-Government, which determines the officials, is still in force? Therefore, officials may be chosen indefinitely on the basis of a public tender after the term of office has expired, so the president does not have any protection such as the mayor, the mayor or the mayor if he has been professionally acting for 6 months. So, tell me where and how you'll find the professionals you'll bring with you and after four years you'll tell them now you'll have to go back to the street because they lost some of their jobs I guess they came from or you'll have to take beginners from the Stock Exchange. So I'm saying, especially in smaller local units, that these people just won't be. You know that you changed and made mandatory interpretations during your term of office when it was a provision that the headship had to be professional, so you couldn't find people who would leave their jobs so that for 4 years they would come to headship and after that they didn't know where they were going to go, so you interpreted by mandatory interpretation that it didn't have to be a professional headship. So, now by limiting this way of mandate, we're going to be in the same difficulty. And secondly, I would say that you are doing what, contrary to what we have signed and in the negotiating positions and measures of the EU, which is the depoliticalisation of the administration both state and local, so administrative officials and administrative bodies so that professionalism is introduced to as many and more levels as possible. Here, therefore, I think that this article and this article must absolutely not enter into the law. People have been chosen indefinitely, not to say that you will again pile up additional employees and employees because you will not be able to fire these employees now they have been admitted indefinitely, unless you declare some games a technological surplus, and those you bring to an uncertain situation that after four years they go to the street.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20245	Thank you very much. Two replicas to your exposure. The first is Vice President Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20246	You're telling your esteemed colleague Lovrin that this two-year provision for deputies will open up the possibility of trade in some kind of deal as you said about mayors and deputies. I'm not sure that would be the case, and even if there was a deal, I don't see what the problem would be. Why don't two policy options agree? But I don't understand that provision and I personally wouldn't put it into law from another period. Namely, the ballot in the direct elections states the name of the candidate or candidate for mayor and the name of the candidate or candidate for his or her deputy. The citizens of the moment they choose know who they choose. Two deputies, they know who they choose. And the citizens can tell me Mrs. Lovrin is a phenomenal candidate for mayor, but two deputies are totally unacceptable to me and I will not vote for that candidate. It's the right thing to do. Look in the U.S., the president and vice president are elected. And the president can be elected today and after two days he can die, he can resign, his duty stops for any reason. No choice, no new choices. The deputy continues to act as president of the United States for four years. And forgive the powers of the president of the United States and the budget of the United States are slightly higher than the budget of the local self-government unit in the Republic of Croatia and the power of the mayor or municipal chief. Well, now, and we're talking about America as a country of democracy. Well, now, if that doesn't bother the Americans over there, why would it bother us? I don't know what would bother us. But it would have led to greater responsibility in proposing candidacy. And then forgive everyone when he points out his candidacy, he would think very carefully about who he was proposing for his deputies to reduce his chances.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20247	Thank you. Replication response, Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20248	Thank you very much. Well, first, it seems to me that in America if Congress doesn't vote the president doesn't drop and lose his mandate, but here I'm going to say, you can think of course you have your own opinion I think it's not good because it's going to be in advance, so look, you've passed one such law that you've prescribed that if yours is someone who's elected to this incompatible duty and decides to move on to another that then the duty officer will do the duty. So you brought it in because of special party interests. You know what it was called in the people of Komadina's law, and now you're the law here's what you brought in then, now you've put it as a rule in this law. I don't think so, I think it'll encourage future advance arrangements and then the citizens will have a half-year mayor. I don't think that's good for any local self-government unit. Such cases in the history of our local self-government have shown that, for example, it was for you Split, where, while the presidential bodies chose the mayor where we agreed that after 2 years, we would change the mayor and the entire development of that unit and those units proved that it was simply not good. And citizens when selecting the mayor need to know who they choose and should have this possibility referencing in a way that it is also enforceable to question the responsibility of such a elected leader.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20249	And the last replica of counterpart Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20250	Thank you. Well, here's an esteemed colleague who said one thing about headmasters, referred this way probably to the ministry, one of these important questions about whether you're going to hire party like that or not, I don't know what. I'm surprised that this side is silent, but I'm surprised that you've already surrendered, lost the entire local election, because this statement says you're going to lose the election, because you're practically assuming that this side is going to win the election. They won't win the election for a variety of reasons. And you're right about this. Therefore, the budget is not the only one where the head of local self-government is practically to be replaced, and unless there is a budget vote, temporary funding should go, and elections should go to the representative body, because no one will be able to agree on the executive and representative authority, nor is there a model. Let us only remember appointments by supervisory committees, and even those leading places that served practically to cover and capture political personnel, regardless of which political options they came from. They weren't experts, they were party people sitting on these boards, the boards of directors for money, for kunas, for a certain fee, and that's a fact. It is the only fact in Croatia that was valid. The mayor, who was directly elected by the citizens, has no idea that he puts such people who do not have any professional equipment, and therefore I was against that withdrawal to call a public tender for filling such places and in the boards of directors, and in the supervisory boards.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20251	Replication response, colleague Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20252	My colleague Vinkovic, I didn't ask the minister if he would be setting up his party counterparts, but. Because I don't need to ask or ask, we saw it at national level quite clearly, and that's, we don't need to be questioned, nor am I talking about it pro-domo sua for some particular local unit, I'm talking about the territory of all Croatia where the options in power, various political options, I'm talking about the functioning of local, local self-government administrative bodies, I'm talking about there are the leaders who are now working, who have been chosen through a public tender indefinitely. If some new ones are now named, no doubt the number of employees will increase, the budgets of these local units will be burdened, and especially those after four years as the bill provides for absolutely no equal protection, and I claim that you will neither find people capable, professional people who want to come to those places. That's what I was talking about. About the balance of the fall of the representative and the executive body, I don't think it's bad simply for the reason that I can't blackmail each other. And if the council can't function and the mayor or the mayor can't function, neither can the entire local self-government unit. And as for this positioning of mayors in places in companies, so the whole story should be regulated by law, because it came to problems in the City of Zagreb, of course when the love between mayors and the assembly ceased, but the problem came because it was followed by the Law on Commercial Society which is the property of specialis in relation to commercial society, and the case law of commercial courts in various Croatia, as we do in our case that each charter applied the law of Croatia in its own way was different, and then it happened in Croatia that it was resolved differently by the work of different commercial courts, and that is why... [[Speaks at the same time, doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20253	Thank you very much. We are continuing an individual debate, colleague Zlatko Komadin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20254	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I think the question of this law is actually a matter of measure and ratio to actually say relations between the representative body and the head of self-government, whether county or city or municipal. And as far as I know, a good part of the mayor wants to be immeasurable, and a good part of the council and people who aren't in executive power want to be and shifty, and we keep hearing about it, right? One's for not touching his circles, and the other's to touch the circles. But each other has a deviation. I think this law has found a good measure, to set the possibility of... the budget document, and also remains the old provision which is a little difficult to implement after the referendum, but always with a referendum can continue to remove the leader, as they would say. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I'm actually more concerned, to tell you the truth, I told my colleagues, and I've been personally concerned about that system, or, uh, we've had an old system, and I've had experience thank you God since '90. the years in all systems of local, regional self-government, and in every system can function, only the rules of the game are important. And, of course, obeying the rules. But we, I have a feeling we're always discussing exceptions and deviations. We have had very few cases in this last term, allegedly 10 or 11, is that so, disbanding, of 555 cities and municipalities, 20 counties and the City of Zagreb, and I don't know why we always go to discuss the system of some of the worst possible options. It's like we're choosing the weirdest thing for mayors and mayors, and they're weird people in the presidential body. I mean, both of them got legitimacy from the citizens. Both, with this system now. So both citizens chose, and so I think that both of them must have adequate powers of respect for each other, meaning in terms of this particular situation of budgeting, but also the right to withdraw, and also of disbanding, means in this case both, because with due respect, there is no need for the council to re-tumble the budget 80% and 100% of it and then tell the elected mayor, choose to spend it, but logically that this man will pull it out, I would also pull it out and disband himself and the council. When I was who I was. And I am pleased to have been Mrs. Lovrin, and it is an honor to have been named after me by some law. But he wasn't brought here because of me, so that's where you made a little mistake. And for that I have evidence you can find them in this House. I resigned neatly. As far as I'm concerned, there'd be elections, but then the law was asked to go, and that's what someone else asked for, so they wouldn't be costing, so I turned it into a standstill. Now that I'm looking at how much you're dealing with me, I'm almost sorry, otherwise we'd already be choices... but let's just let it go now. So, I'm even so that maybe the old system comes back. The old system requires in the first place before the election that one who intends to be elected as head of office will be elected from the council or the assembly that he is obliged when the elections are actually engaged in most of the parliament behind the elections, whether he did so before the elections or did so after the elections. This system I have a feeling is rooted in some who are not let's say party people who have no responsibility to the party or politics, but to themselves especially independent persons, not independent, unbiased, unbiased, independent people who are only important to him to be directly elected, and what will be on the other side of the panel that will say in the congregation or the council doesn't care. So what I'm saying is that there are only rules that matter because, of course, you have to meet the conditions. If you're thinking about swimming, you should have a bar theoretical pool that should be filled with water. But if you're going to swim 50 miles, you're going to give back or chest it's now a matter of saying the rules and norms that are prescribed. Personally, I don't think it's even wise to put an end to headship, I don't think it's professional but to be a headmaster because it's always better for a decision to be made by a collective body at least in the practice of headship to raise their hands for what the mayor or mayor proposes. As a rule, they don't have to. Also, these bodies would have a little bit stronger and greater legitimacy to name administrative councils and supervisory committees than one man has, so that's the fear of one man. But also in the rules, it's not true that it's just the man in charge. The various laws of specific special laws prescribe who enforces founding rights. Where it is not prescribed, it is assumed to be a congregation. The congregation, however, can arrange differently by its decision as often as it does otherwise. The example of the city of Zagreb to tell you the truth is actually rare when the City of Zagreb Assembly appointed the Assembly of Holding, the congregation in character and the vision of 11 people who must decide unanimously. I think God simply saw it, I don't know who came to it... because at the assembly it's quite logical that the legal representative is the legal person of the assembly. There are other supervisory committees and boards of directors. But that's it. The other thing, I think it would be worth thinking about or having deputies pick out all the way from the council. The truth then might be that criticism of what counterpart Stazic said then this institute would be if the deputy stayed if the leader was a little disabled because he would not be a directly elected deputy, then there is little in the conflict. But I think you can even think about getting the headship back. However, it is partly compensated with this provision that the leaders are elected for 4 years. And I don't see what's wrong with that. I am not a supporter of the eternal administration. These people are caught in a working relationship if they give him a mandate or you choose him, and you schedule him according to his professional training. Someone's going to say it's lush bureaucracy. Well, it's not exactly a wake-up call, it's always someone retires, etc. And it's not normal, so what do you think when the headmaster comes to change all 10 headmasters? Well, I haven't changed my 10 headmasters and I've been here more than once. I've changed two, three. ... I don't see why a professional who does his job would change. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's another thing if you're hiring your party friends and party friends when another friend and friend comes in and changes your friends and friends. I didn't put my party friends on headmasters or headmasters, I put in non-partisan people. Exceptionally, if someone is professional and in the party, of course, that I have given him confidence but he must be willing to take the risk of flying when someone else comes. And now what are we surprised at? It's in nature like that. It's like it's different out there. And that's actually what I wanted to finally say is that even one dilemma that I would ask the motionary to explain. That's where I agree with the review of the deadlines. It's not a happy time when this is brought. The election is close, for example. Now you don't know the rules. This is just the first reading. There's no telling how many councils we're talking about. It is prescribed to determine by number, and the number will probably be determined by a new census, and the census will be when it will be. So I'm specifically now, for example. I'm negotiating with the coalition. What to negotiate at number 41, number 45 or number 51 is not known whether the congregation will have 300 inhabitants or 295. Which I don't think is such a shitty question. So I'd like to ask a little answer about what number will be the current... list, since the list. And I'm not so sure I should prescribe a number. So far, it has been democratic for all the congregation bodies to decide within a number between numbers, and that was the right thing to do now we're fine. I don't see these people being stupid that they can't determine how many councils they want to have with their statutes. So I think that this reduction in the base of the budget is a reduction in conditionally said departure is not bad, and I think because you are obliged to account for someone and I believe that the reasonable people will propose a reasonable budget and reasonable parliamentarians will also go with reasonable amendments. I think we're going from the wrong assumption that they're all unreasonable. So it's not good to write laws based on examples. There's so much on my side. I had some other things, just maybe in some replica, even though I swore I'd only replicate to lift the replica, and I'll take that next time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20255	But you have five replicas, so you'll answer. Zoran Vinkovic, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20256	Perhaps my colleague Zlatko would do well to return the delegate system in the way you've told it here and about the story of the deputies, etc. I think we all need to understand here that we can't mix pears and apples, that we need to separate executive and representative power, and where we're lucky to have a court. We have a direct choice of local leader who is directly responsible for citizens, not the president of SDP, president or HDZ or HDZ, but directly elected citizens. And citizens are the only ones who can replace it through the referendum. The number of voters in the referendum I think can be arranged, with the minister's intention as far as I understand today to accept one such way. Not this charm of the law and mixing the authority of the body of the representative and executive body. I again claim that the boards of directors, the boards of directors, served exclusively as party personnel and in order to satisfy coalition agreements. So you're gonna go to the plumbing, you're gonna go to communal because you're from that party and that party, not because you're professional and capable. That was the only reason, and I think I should ban the pre-election coalitions. A lot of these so-called. small parties wouldn't even see any parliament, wouldn't see local self-government, local committee. And that's the only thing. There's no possibility of a deal, there's no deal. Let's see what happened to Varazdin. It's not the only budget where the representative body should be. A man ended up in prison and what if he hadn't resigned, what would have happened? Well, he hasn't been proven guilty yet.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20257	Thank you. Replication response, Zlatko Komadina.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20258	Dear counterpart Vinkovic, if Croatia were one electoral unit and you wouldn't be sitting in the Parliament, first. ... As for the boards of directors and supervisory boards and party placements, let everyone testify about themselves, and I assume you are in the middle where... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I didn't throw it to you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Some courtesy would be equally welcome. As for the old system, in the old system to become mayor of colleague Vinkovic, you had to have the majority that first needed you to be mayor, and then you answer them to propose a budget and they accept, if you are not mayor again. So that's what we had, we can have it very easily so that we can get away from this law. And one thing you haven't replicated to me, so maybe somebody's replicating, I don't know if anyone mentioned it, I'm trying to apply those penalties for gender equality. Then why did we vote it if we didn't intend to put the same number of women and men on the list. What did we vote so that it would be a decoration? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20259	Comrade Vinkovic, when you get the word you have the right to speak, do not disturb those who speak. My colleague Anna Lovrin has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20260	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Komadina, of course, it may be an honor to call the law after you and I wouldn't have mentioned it if I didn't like it, it wasn't maligning, it's for sure. But I have to say, you were probably so valuable to the SDP that you had to come to the government and they didn't want to spend taxpayers' money, so they came up with a law like that. And I must say that this is a little advance by this bill because unlike that hereditary monarchy in which the abdicating leader has determined who will inherit it. Now it is said in advance by the law to the citizens that it will still be the one elected first on that list. So in that sense, some little shift was made, although I think it should be thrown out of the law. I would agree with you that it would have been better if it hadn't been for the headship to be abolished than that, every time these leaders are re-named as professionals, so they don't know where they're going to go after the term of office. So it would be better to keep the headship that can be and does not have to be professional, and yet to help the mayor, or mayor in this business. And it is true that according to the ZTD, it is quite clear who makes up the congregation. The congregation is made up of owners, but it is often in people’s minds inconceivable that the congregation can be one man because if one is owned by a company, then there is also one man who is a representative who is also the owner. And we're going to talk about gender equality just as soon as we talk about this next Law on Local Elections, then that topic will come up.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20261	Replication response, Zlatko Komadina.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20262	I'm usually aware of myself, so I don't need the law, ma'am, to be aware of myself. So as far as the law goes, and if I was fond of SDP, I guess it would still last, right? So much for my SDP, some for the SDP. Otherwise, I don't have any other replicas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20263	Replica has a colleague, Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20264	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Komadin, I agree with you that one of the essential attributes of this law on which we can measure how good or bad the fundamental relationship between the holder of the executive authority was in the municipality, city or county and on the other side of the representative body. But I disagree with you that this law, if it seems to me you've well guessed that ratio. That's how you told me something about whether he was right or right. I don't agree with that. Namely, I know that in a large number of units of local self-government, the leaders of the executive government thought they were god-given. And that they often held on so that they would be elected, and for them they were not political parties that had run them. And I believe that the current law is not good, and it did not allow a quality instrument that could change that head of the executive government could disband, but as we know in the Republic of Croatia, it was a very rare case if such an opportunity had occurred in the first place. But this law, or this bill of law, has one option and it is my fault that the government disbands the head of the executive authority? That's the moment he doesn't bring the budget. And I think that if the head of the executive authority proposes a budget that is in line with the guidelines given by that same government on growth in tax revenues, given GDP growth in the current year. If the draft budget provides for all that is necessary for the financing of the unit of local self-government, and the representative body for its own known reasons does not like such a budget, then, because of the failure to adopt the budget, we also disband the holder of the executive authority and the representative body. That's not good for me. I am that it can be dissolved, but it's not just one way, and it's my fault.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20265	Answer to the replica of my colleague Zlatko Komadin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20266	Well, I just wanted to say that ultimately it depends on the people we choose. In fact, I am deeply convinced that if you go by force of arguments towards the council, that the council accepts to a large extent what the head proposes. And if you go by force's argument, then the council comes back with the same force and we get into that situation. If that's the case, then they'd better go check on both citizens so somebody's gonna get more or show the citizens they think were right. But again, I'm saying it didn't happen very much, and I don't see why we're afraid it's going to happen. I even think I can honestly tell you that according to this old man to stay anything to make it less of a case than it might be now after this new one. It seems so mild to me, but they lived and saw.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20267	And the last replica, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20268	Thank you very much. Well, here's the esteemed Komadin, I will, Mr. Komadin, replicate the part where you said you weren't clearly defined by the rules, so you can't go into pre-election talks with potential partners. Here is the possibility that no one in this House knows that in the Primorje-Gorina County the government is acting by the Green Party, and then the Party of Democratic Action, then the Autonomous Regional Party, and so the Croatian Social Liberal Party has eight. It was popularly called pre-election sausage, as many as 8 parties and, of course, when there are no rules, we don't know the number of councilmen we're going to choose then we're having a hard time sharing places and possibly chaires. And that's why I'm at the end of my debate that I said was a fundamental problem, but it's only being solved by the other law that we might be discussing tonight at ten o'clock. Indeed, what is the meaning of this law and the day-long debate when you go to the polls in the 8-party coalition, there are still some household tips missing from individual skyscrapers and then apply all the opportunities that local self-government offers. It turns into a chair election, because neither one of them signed something without a chair. And then what kind of message we send these mayors, i.e. Not to the mayors, but to the citizens who simply go to the polls, I don't know about 30 or 40 percent. They're aware of that. And how hard it is to say all that in one piece then on that official paper when you teach the candidacy very briefly, this time this coalition was called a coalition for. And that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20269	Answer to the replica of my colleague Zlatko Komadin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20270	Yes, Mr. Boric has no such 8 in that coalition, but he has SDP and 7 of them. First of all, second-readers have never been the subject of a store where I used to trade. The directors were directly under executive authority, because the other thing is if someone is suggesting someone to you, and that man is a professional that you wouldn't accept, but that you write coalition agreements, and I know they're being written, I've never written them like that, and I've never written them to which one's head goes to which party. They'll never find that in me anywhere in any archive, anywhere. And sharing the Governing Council and the Supervisory Boards on some key to Parliament's participation would be a good thing. I am even for that, but that's what we see from both sides, even yours. These were often criticisms, you remember well it was shared by participation in parliament of coalition parties, not HDZ. However, the committees as well as the Assembly have always been divided in accordance with the position and opposition ratio. And also presidential seats. But when we have democracy so that we all understand it in the same way I will be the first to enter into the governance structures all representatives from the parliaments. There are examples like that in the world. However, there is a little problem and then legal responsibility. That's where Mrs. Lovrin mentioned something earlier. In fact, the question is whether you can give confidence in keeping a company with the opposition, and you can ultimately answer for that part of the story. I think it's hard to do, but I think you're a witness to it yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20271	We're continuing the debate. Branko Bacic next.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20272	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, my dear colleagues and colleagues. So here I am during today's debate, in a great deal through replicas, and I have expressed my position on this law. Now I'm going to try to sublime it somehow and point out what I'm going to disagree with in law. But before that I'll say here's what Mr. Komadina said earlier and about it we had a series of replicas during the morning, that the law in the first reading means that we are expected to have another reading, I believe by the end of the year, by the end of the session, that it comes late and that it would be better to say that it should be as well said in accordance with good parliamentary practice that this law should have been much earlier in the debate and long before it was adopted so that this important segment of the functioning of the state, the local self-government, could be better prepared for elections. Another thing that I don't think should have been prescribed by this law, that's what the ministers were talking about, was it necessary to define the number of doctors in certain units of local self-government? The European Charter of Local Self-Government states that the law should enable local self-government units to determine their own internal structure to adapt it to their own, beware, special needs and make management as effective as possible. I don't think that the number of council members in each representative body should have been so decided that they should have left it really in the domain of the decision-making unit of local self-government and that they themselves, in accordance with their needs, define the number of council members and that it really was their autonomous decision. The other thing that we were already talking about today is this dilemma that was opened by the law of Lex Komadina is that after 2 years after only known reasons, probably from the opportunity, the elected head of the local self-government unit, the elected head and the executive officer went to another probably better duty, he would not go to a worse one, to be chosen by the person who was his deputy. I dare say, with due respect for all those deputies who are excellent, they are doing their best from the municipality to the county, that our citizens were still arounding with the one who was wearing that duty. He was crucial and his work at the local self-government unit at the time was especially valued when it was decided. I disagree that after only two years of leaving the possibility of political corruption or anything after only two years, after half the mandate units of local self-government do not go to the polls after the main person leaves the post. I think that we should have stayed on that formulation that in the last 6, 8, 10 months we should not go to the elections, but after half of the term, I do not accept it and I do not hold it absolutely that it is even democratic in the first place towards those who decide, and these are our citizens. Thirdly, one small remark may refer to the possibility that the mayor, but not more than 0.5%, will decide whether to acquire or alienate the property. That's not good. Namely, what's wrong? It's not good that small units of local self-government whose original incomes are only 5 million kuna, and there are many that are below 5 million kuna, 0.5% is 25 thousand kuna. So will the City Council be called together to decide 25 thousand kuna? So I suggest that instead of 0.5% of the current income of the local self-government unit, you find that up to 5 million kuna if the original income is that much over 20 million or over 10 million kuna, and over 20 million kuna can only be 0.5%, because then that's 100 thousand kuna and then so much for the mayor and the mayor to stay in his section. It was also about the directors. It seems to me that if you are somewhere, if somewhere this law is written through the prism of large units of local self-government, and primarily the City of Zagreb, then that's what I think it's written here. Namely, we have 570 units of local self-government in Croatia, a large number of small municipalities have one person or two, three persons employed. When you after the election hire a new head you're practically, and this old man stays because they've all regulated their working relationship by a contract indefinitely and he can't leave that job, you've raised the staff costs in that municipality by 25% to 30%. They hardly and in this difficult financial situation already carry out their budgets, when we give them the person with the highest salary in that unit of local self-government, it is the headmaster and we add another such salary he will not be able to carry out any more obligations than we have and we have determined the amount of funds that the unit of local self-government can spend on the expenditures of its employees. As for the budget, not making a budget, I've talked about it many times, it's not a good provision for you. I am alone that can be replaced, disbanded both by the head and the holder of the executive authority, but according to this law only on one occasion, there is only one option for me to blame. This needs to find a new moderation to establish this relationship between the executive head and the representative body, but I don't think this is a good model. It is not a good model that he can be disbanded if he acts by law, and on the other hand, according to the Law on Local Self-Government, he is obliged to enforce law in the field of his unit of local self-government, even though, I think it is one of his fundamental obligations and duties as head of the unit of local self-government, or that executive authority. I also have to say that I don't like the part where you make it possible, regardless of the size of the unit of local self-government, that the mayor, the mayor, or the mayor may be a volunteer. I don't know, I don't think it's good, and not just a message in the item that someone who runs a regional self-government unit, for example the Primorje-Gorski County or the Split-Dalmatia that can be a volunteer and he and all his deputies. I think I don't know if it means that the ruling majority among the present parliamentary deputies sees most of their future leaders, so that they don't leave parliament because, given the election results, there would be no new MPs who would change them in the Assembly, and then, in this way, they ensure that they can be mayors, mayors, mayors, etc., but I don't think there's really any reason, I don't see what would be the reason for the leaders of the local self-government units through, for example, 10,000 residents, as defined in the current law, to be professionals and have to act professionally. I think we should return it and it's not a good message or anything. Later, there will be a debate, I don't know when the Law on Local Elections, and I've already said it this morning, and I don't know if we'll be able to talk about it tonight and when we're going to talk about it, but in the law following this, it's allowed even for the mayors to be parliamentary representatives, I think that it should really give way to the mayors, especially the big cities, that they can also be parliamentary representatives, it seems to me that it would be a good message to get rid of this law that mayors, mayors can't be at the same time and parliamentary representatives. I'd go so far as to be no chiefs, but here's the least I can do is make it the mayors of the big cities that I can't be parliamentary representatives, and about the mayors that are going to be spoken of in the second law that I don't even talk about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20273	Thank you very much. And now we're going for a few replicas. The first Golden Comadina.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20274	... Dear Mr. Bacic, first of all, I'd like to answer when you mentioned me on duty. [[Specially enabled.]] It's a duty for me to take responsibility, you said someone was going on a better duty. Yeah, for example. I don't think leaving the mayor's post as minister came on a better duty, I think I came personally on a worse duty, but in the name of responsibility I went on that duty. I think so much about the idea that's better, and the worse it is. Let's play a good job, health issues, and the programming differences that led to what. As far as direct elections are concerned, I remind you to remember why we were all for it, almost all of us, the citizens of Croatia made it clear that they wanted direct elections after those circuses and trades that were actually party self-will or party corruption changed the will of the citizens, and that was happening in quite a medium. I'm a witness in our midst, in the county when on the night of the long knives we lost three of ours off the list, people disappearing, became in most of the HDZ, the morning we were to choose the mayor. I mean, the citizens voted for them on the SDP list. I think so much about it. That's why it went to the direct system so it couldn't change, and then we have these disabilityes that we have. As far as mayors and mayors are concerned, I am either entitled to be on the lists and to go to the mandate of parliamentary deputies, but I am the same for them not to be, either. In all respects to you fellow mayors, I don't see how you can at the same time of work, which is usually between 8 and 4 to be in two places and do two jobs at that same time of work. There are other duties this afternoon and weekend, that's different. Hear that in nature means that the deputies are working there while you're sitting here, and you have to sit around all the time for quorums and Fridays for voting, which is why I don't see it. But don't get me wrong, I am for having everyone have the right to run, to choose and be elected, to withdraw, to be replaced, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20275	Thank you very much. Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20276	Mr. Komadina, I just mentioned the law as it was called, I didn't mean for you to go on a better duty, or else I never perform in the Assembly, taking care of people, but I speak in principle. Since you mentioned yourself whether, I don't think it's true that you weren't important to the SDP because you wouldn't be called... For the vice president, I guess in that part, we agree, yes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But as far as the election is concerned, it's a direct choice. Directly elected mayor, mayor, i.e. mayor for the mayor, mayor and mayor, the deputy mayor was not elected on the day when the election for the mayor, i.e. the deputy mayor for the mayor, and for me it... At least that's what I think, we so, such a relationship and such attitude must carry as far away as possible, as long as these elections make sense. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They don't make sense elections in the last few months, they don't make sense in the last few months, but after two years, after half-term elections certainly make sense, and I'm saying I'm not for such a provision to allow but in the beginning of the division of the prey to call it so rudely among the people who will run for mayor. Maybe we can start by saying right away, I'll be mayor for two years, and my deputy will be two years, and that way we'll make it easier to form a coalition between our parties, we'll share that prey, and in a certain way we'll play the will of the citizens, and the first one will be the one who might win it more easily. I'm not saying that after two years, the deputy mayor or mayor or mayor and that there are leaders. That's my point of view, and I think we can talk a lot about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20277	Thank you. Ingrid Antičević Marinović replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20278	Here in your debate you say that you are not for such coalitions, you interpret it in your own way that everyone looks like sausages but there was a time when you had so many coalition partners that it barely cared about on the ballot. But apparently the times have changed and you're no longer some good married man you'll obviously be alone and that's where your fear comes from. But only by the way. Here you mention and so you baptize a certain law even calling it Latin by the name of a representative. And you tell me what you would call a practice that has been in government in the city of Zadar for decades. So in 2001, our coalition along with the coalition of the honorable man Stanislav Antic gets most. And you're buying Renata Peroš and it was the beginning of mandates rather than the wholesale trade that embarrassed us in front of Europe, and we paid for it with a late approach. That's one thing. Before that, before 2001, several nautical miles of the ship sailed for three days and otherwise it has a sign of the boat's name faster, so when the police and the police stole exactly 300 votes and the police found that theft and it located exactly where it happened on the ship's famous name, Fast. But she never found out who did it on the boat faster and one of the... suspects told the press on the inquiry so what do you want we've been sailing for as long as it takes. And in 2005, with the help of us, they were no longer local authorities and powers, but with the help of your government at the time, we get because we are complaining we get the same number of mandates, the truth you, by the election result and we and one and by the right of national minorities but the government does not recognise it and the government please make a statement, "What we are looking for, the proposal is unfounded because it is generally known that the electoral list is not arranged," and with that list we went to elections. And until today, the Constitutional Court has not resolved our request for an assessment of the constitutionality of that conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20279	Thank you very much. The answer to Branko Bacic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20280	Vice President, dear colleagues. First of all, you didn't replicate anything to me you needed Mr. Boric, I think Mr. Boris was talking about sausages that were running around on election lists in the Primorje-Gorski County. This part about the election in Zadar I know something about, it seemed to me 11 years ago. And since then, to this day, despite your team, how you told your irregularities not to say a harsh word for what you said here in that same HDZ Zadar has continued to win. Well, that's the best answer, that says a lot more than me answering your line here. Well, then, if that's how you speak in Zadar, then the HDZ in Zadar wouldn't always win in Zadar County. It is likely that the people of Zadar would notice that something is happening there among those HDZs. Therefore, I think the biggest punishment for the SDP in Zadar is that for years HDZ has won convincingly.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20281	Replica, please. Davor's Mlakar replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20282	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear counterpart Bačić, you were wondering, and you were well wondering what rights were left to local self-government as the government proposed by this law, and what I would say is the narrowed rights for which in some ways local self-government has now been able to reduce this law further. Well, that's the basic question, the rule of the people in this sense means that we are invited to this extent to make sure that we determine to these units the exact number of council members because they are not seriously mature enough and not capable enough to determine for themselves which number of members of the representative body a single unit should have. And this is the very continuation of the policy that has been being sold to us all along where we are interpreted as not amending the law, where political appointments are not political appointments and that the will of citizens who are constantly being questioned in the elections is protected by the fact that the Commissioners will determine their deputies without being able to decide on it by voters. It's just an illusion of democracy, not a democratic law as the government shows it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20283	The answer to Branko Bacic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20284	Thank you, Madam Vice President. That's right, young man. In my presentation, I was talking about this part of which I do not think the Government respects the possibility and the legal obligation, and especially in the part because we are also signatories of a European Charter in which local self-government is the authority to decide in the section prescribed by it. In my opinion, this law has been violated. But what's even worse than this law, and I'm sure the minister will accept it and change it is that citizens who directly elected the executive authorities to change it in a referendum. It's been abolished by this law and it's not good. And I think here's what I'm sure the government will accept and return to the law the possibility that the leaders of the local self-government units in the referendum under the precise law of the conditions laid down can be replaced and then re-elected in the new elections by the new mayor, mayor or mayor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20285	The replica Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20286	Thank you. Well, Mr. Bacic, this argument of yours seemed quite reasonable to that censor, and I think that it should actually be a little bit more elaborated, and it seemed reasonable to me, and in fact that it wasn't sufficiently elaborated in this bill of law. I would do one other thing, when you told these commissioners, the mayors and the deputies and about the possible division of the spoils, I don't see exactly which prey is divided there, I can't quite figure out what prey is and besides, the elections are coming after four years in which voters can always punish anyone who tries to abuse their position. So I don't see which... exactly, which is the idea of dividing the prey. But there is something else that no one has mentioned so far, we have a whole series of municipalities, cities and counties where according to this Constitution on national minorities are deputy mayors, mayors and deputy mayors from the ranks of national minorities elected under special law. At this moment, with these amendments, the position of deputies puts in a completely different position than before, so it can be relatively easy for one of these deputies to become mayor and mayor and deputy at some point. He's been chosen by special regulations on a special list, I don't mean in any form at all, but simply the question of whether there's such a chosen leader even choice and legitimacy because he's chosen in a completely different way of choice. Well, maybe that's one question like this that you should consider. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20287	Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20288	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague, I said that we can speak roughly about the division of the loot, but I will remind you that there have been agreements between both parliamentary parties and within the same parties because of the use of parliamentary pensions, agreement on joint conduct of MPs for two years. So we witnessed that, in a very large number of cases, a single representative had withdrawn after two years and left the office of counsel to another representative so that he could exercise some rights. I said that such a situation could happen at the level of the leaders in the units of local self-government. It doesn't mean he will, but in this way we really do leave it to the two people at the beginning to know that they will act as captains with the blessing of citizens who didn't know it at first. I don't think that's good, and I said I'm expressing my position. If your position is different, I respect it, but I don't think it's a good thing and that whoever won the election won that mandate must... until the end, if he gives up within a period of less than 3, 3,5 years that the local self-government unit must call the election and go back to the election of a new mayor, mayor or mayor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20289	And the last replica, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20290	Thank you very much. Well, here's what I have to do. I need to replicate to my esteemed colleague, Bacic, for the part about the headmaster. According to this bill, it might be a good thing that for the first time today, after these next elections, we form a local self-government, that they are gone and that we start over and then whoever comes and picks up his team after four years and leaves. However, we have an inherited condition. I will now give an example of what it was like when the SDP came to my town on the island of Rab in 2001, before it was HDZ. He had a properly elected headmaster, the SDP comes, shifted everyone, not offer them a new job, not give them a severance or I don't know what, no, but all shifts, come new. As permanent employees sue the same city, then be what counterpart Kregar said it lasts for years, then after 5 years the judgment of the court comes back to work, pay them back somewhere between 350 and 400,000 kuna per head. It's called good government behavior. We also have other cases that when not just the headmasters, let's say the mayor's office. And they want to be special, and then every new set wants its own head, but they're all in a working relationship, for good. In my town, it happened again that the constant shifts, the mayor of the mayor's office left, took severance and after four years he came back again and now if he's changed again, he may be entitled to re-delivery. We simply go from circle to circle, and as a fundamental problem I say we state this story of direct choice. And finally, given this bill of law, here's what I'm going to have to do for my colleague Anticevic...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20291	It can't. Time's up. ... Replication response, Branko Bacic. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Kola Boric [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Take care of the weather. [[/Attacka Boric: Once before the election, and the second time in Christmas time. Thank you very much.]] Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20292	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Boric, I disagree with you that this law should, it could be supported that there are zero elections. Although I don't know what choices I'm in favour of the administration run by local self-government units that these people are experts, that they know the functioning of the local self-government unit and that they are constantly independent of what the political party is at the time in power in the local self-government unit. This should make the administration depolitical, be professional, be effective and thus make the administration an efficient service for Croatian citizens. Perhaps we should consider what we just said, I think that headship as a co-operative body has worked closely with the mayor, or the mayor, or the mayor, or the mayor, should cover the part in which the political party that wins power through its members of the headship could, in a certain way, direct the work of units of local self-government. But the part about the effects of the local self-government unit is good for me that these are people who know the job, who have been perfected for years, and not after two or three years, some new ones who practically first meet with the local self-government unit.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20293	We're continuing an individual debate. Tanya Wrbat, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20294	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here's the debate that's been going on since morning, and we've heard a lot. I will concentrate on one part of this bill that I have not heard that colleagues have specifically looked back on it, and that is what about minority members of national minority representatives except, of course, colleagues coming from the national minority club. I say this as a representative of the majority people in the Republic of Croatia, but who lives in an environment that is particularly proud of the way and the co-operation and co-operation with members of the Italian national minority, in this case of the Italian national minority because I am talking about Istria. I have to say, I'm skeptical of this solution that I see here when we talk about deputy mayors, because I'm starting again from the thesis that I've said before that we can't put everything in the same mold. Unfortunately, we live in a country where different national minorities are treated differently. It's one big problem that we have a responsibility and we have to solve. These are long-term processes that must lead to a fairer relationship with all minorities. In Istria, we are particularly good, or at least we consider it to be a very good relationship and cooperation with the Italian national minority. From our point of view, I believe that this part of Article 18, that is, the last indent of Article 18 of the Law, is a sort of step back for members of the Italian national minority in the environments like the one from which I come. So, more or less all statutes in the Istrian county of municipalities and cities predict deputy mayors or mayors from a national minority that is majority there. In this case, the Italian National Minority. In this case, if we apply this law, of course we still have time to change it, we get a mini mayor just for this Italian case. What's his relationship with the mayor and the deputy elected on this general list? These powers are not clearly defined enough by the deputy mayor, but there is a possibility that they do not form part of the same team in a simple dictionary, that one should be elected from one political party, and that others be members of another political group and that there may be more honesty, that there may be a rivalry, that there may be conflict, and that at the end both minorities and the majority of the people there will be at the end of the loss. I therefore believe that, in law, if we decide on this variant that I am in principle in favour of the minority choosing its own representative and the executive authority, and not only in the representative authority, then that representative in the executive power indeed has some specific powers to know what and when and how it will work. It was here from the National Minority Club that the deputy mayor elected from a special minority quota could not choose the mayor. I think it's understandable that his legitimacy is, unfortunately, smaller. Today, in Istria, we elect deputy mayors, mayors from the minority ranks. It's one of the fluids we're proud of. I think this will lead to the fact that we're going to push minority members into some ghetto and that they're going to choose themselves, why can't I just vote the same as the Croat for the mayor who's a member of the minority? I don't think this law is going to lead to it anywhere, because the political opportunist is going to say we're going to propose Croats here now, and the Italians are going to choose themselves anyway. I think the political parties in Istria today are at such a level of development and political culture that we ourselves are trying to involve Italians in the work. So I'm afraid that would be a step back at least as far as this perspective is concerned. Of course I repeat, this does not apply to all national minorities in Croatia and, unfortunately, I understand that it is trying to find some kind of compromise. However, in this last article, the last paragraph of Article 18 di exactly foresees a situation as in the city in which I live is the town of Umag, which of course respects, has an obligation in its statute to choose a mayor or deputy from minority lines. As far as I understand this item we would then have, say, in the case of two or mayors and two deputies would not come this extra. And that is exactly the environment in which there are a particularly high number of members of the national minority and there would be a need for an additional representative in the executive government. I will say something else that has not been said here today, and in my opinion it is one very good thing that introduces that later law, which is basically that members of the national minorities through this law, that is, this law that is later in the debate gets the de facto for the first time in some law in the Republic of Croatia twice the right to vote. It's something I personally support, and I think it's a good idea to introduce it. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20295	Thank you. We have a replica of our colleague, Bozidar Kalmeta.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20296	Thank you. Well, here's what I'd like to say to my colleague, Vrbat, that I agree with her debate, and practically what she said, I don't have much to comment on. But I'm going to comment on some of the other facts presented here, but here's some attitudes behind this pay phone. So, I have a proposal for a minister who's not here right now, but he'll hear, it's no problem. Everything is prescribed in this law and I don't think everything should have been prescribed, for example, which will be the number of council members in some local self-government unit. But since everything is prescribed, then I would suggest that the following be prescribed, which is that HDZ in Zadar is no longer allowed to go to elections, so maybe the SDP and the sausage, as my colleague in Zadar says, may win the election. Here, I would suggest it to the minister to consider it and to discuss it here a little bit. And one more thing, I don't remember everything that's been said, but I remember very well the past local elections when the result was 59%, and my colleague, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović, much, much less 40 percent. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20297	Thank you very much. But my colleague Calmeta, you've been out of the Parliament a little longer, you can only replicate on basic exposure. The answer to the line of my colleague, Vrbat.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20298	I'm glad you took advantage of my argument to abuse this institute of replicas, but you did make such an interesting suggestion. So give me the amendment, and I believe the minister will be very happy to accept it. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20299	And Zoran Vinkovic has a replica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20300	Dear colleagues will not interfere with these relations around Zadar, but the fact is that there is a difficult SDP passing regardless of whether the ship is fast or with a little vitre but in any case very difficult. But on the side. Here I was reading carefully and in my debate I did not touch this article on 18th, precisely in view of the Constitutional Law on National Minorities, etc., but it is necessary to clarify here what is the function of the Deputy Mayor. So, the deputy mayor or mayor, or mayor, the head of the local self-government, has the authority he approves, or that I am directly elected head of local self-government. So, if in 4 years the head of local self-government does not give any authority to his deputy he doesn't have to do anything, he doesn't even have to come to work as Kerum or his detachable deputy, but he will get by law, since they were able to determine whether this job will be done by volunteering or professionally most of them have been determined professionally and will receive wages for their work. And I'm using this replica once again, and I'm appealing to understand the directness of the election of local self-government leaders, the indirectity of the election of the representative body, and that we're not simply bringing in, I'd say one possible Frankenstein performance that this representative body, and you've been talking about the absurdity of some demands to the budget, the absurdity of the request for employment, and I don't know what kind of things that could fall to certain council members in mind to replace this time four times in a normal election cycle of local self-government leaders.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20301	Replication response, Tanya Verbat.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20302	I am pleased that we agree that these representatives should be strengthened in the executive government coming from national minorities. You said that, I see, I'm glad that we agree on the issue of national minorities because usually our parties don't always agree on it, so I'm glad to hear it now. I believe it is my personal opinion that members of the national minorities who are in the executive power must deal with not only the minority but everything. Like everyone thinks women should be involved in education because it's for women. I'm afraid this will lead to these members of the national minorities elected in the executive power to be given to them here go open up some set of national minorities there, and they won't be allowed to work in executive power what the executive authority does. Especially if they are not selected from the same list. I suppose it will and will lead to the ghettoisation of the minority itself in the environments where this minority is indeed numerous and should be included in both executive and representative power. That's what I'm saying from the experience of the environment that we've been through. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20303	We're continuing the debate. It's Damir Mateljan's turn. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20304	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues here after the whole day's debate and stories about sausages and spongy vessels it's hard to say what's new and something dramatic, but I'll probably do it again, but some things are good to repeat. First of all, I would like to join all those in the debates that went to the team to actually praise this way of working, presentation, the course of the adoption of this law, because this is actually a precedent for me to receive for the first time a law that has passed a broad public debate, not just a formal public debate through the Ministry's website, but a public debate involving all the stakeholders involved in this law, such as associations of mayors, associations of cities, associations of municipalities, such as the academic community, or civil society associations. I am such a course of passing a proposal of this law by me guaranteeing his high quality. This proposal of the Law on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government does not, in my opinion, intend to change the previous law but rather amends and amends it in the part in which the past law has in practice proved inadequate, impractical, non-functional and inapplicable. And that's first of all in that famous part that many have talked about here today, and that's the recall of the local mayor, so mayor, mayor or mayor. Therefore, the model is left with the possibility of ending the mandate of the directly elected leader in a referendum requested by the representative body or part of the voter, but remains the possibility of recalling in the event of an emergency of the law of resignation, death, a final judgment, and a new instrument is introduced, and this is the case of the simultaneous disbandment of the representative body and the executive body in the event that the budget is not taken, or a decision on temporary financing. All the criticisms that have been directed here today, as well as criticisms that went through the public debate, are precisely related to that part of the law with the argument that it is leaving the model of active involvement of citizens and representative bodies in calling the mayor, i.e. the mayor, the head of responsibility. On the other hand, the counterargument of the applicant, i.e. the Ministry of Administration, is the fact that in this existing law, this possibility has never been consummated before. The value of the quality of a law is shown by me precisely in its application, practice, action, therefore this argument is fully acceptable to me by the applicant. In addition, I also think that the instrument of disbanding the executive body and the representative body unless it adopts a basic financial document of the unit of local self-government cannot necessarily mean that it affects the stability of a certain local self-government, it does not necessarily mean that such a situation will lead to conflict, but rather the opposite of the opinion itself is that the adoption of such a document is a space where an executive authority can be agreed on, so the executive authority can therefore be agreed with the representative body, and if they do not agree, then if this compromise is not reached again, I do not see any reason why the citizens would not be these judges, or therefore both, one and the other authorities would not go to the elections. I will not look back at other parts of this law because I say there is already a lot being said before me, and there will be after my debate, but I would return to what I said first, which is that this law does not essentially change the role of local self-government units, and I am convinced, and I think that today's debate has shown that such a new law that would in many ways change the relationship in local self-government units is necessary. Croatia today has nearly 600 units of local self-government, and from this fact it could be completely wrong to conclude that Croatia is actually a decentralised country. But the cause of such theoretical, territorial decentralisation is actually a matter of decentralisation of the state administration. In order for a local community to manage today with any part of the financial capacity it would target its local development, it must simply be a municipality, otherwise there will be nothing of these financial capacities. Today, local self-government is deprived of jurisdiction, the independence of financial resources for independent actions, for independent strategies and for development plans, in fact, the possibility of action is deprived at all. Centralised funds and decision-making on their distribution leave units of local self-government with no issuing sources of income, deprive units of the local self-government of that basic postulate, that basic reason of existence, which is the preparation of development strategies, investment in municipal capacity, investment in infrastructure, so general development, the improvement of a local community. This fiscal centralisation prevents local self-government units from being competitive in the market at all, let's say they can be involved in the preparation of projects for the European Funds, that they can accept European funds at all, and thus enrich their local budgets and thus help the central state. For all these reasons it is actually visible that most, or almost all local leaders... The source of local, or any power, that they are no local sheriffs, but that ordinary beggars who depend on national funds, depending on the ministries, which, of course, is not good for this country, and I'm afraid that unless we change this way of dealing with local self-government that we can forget about the capillaries of this country, that we can actually forget about the development of this country at all. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20305	Thank you. The Republic has Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20306	My colleague Damira, it's an honor. Here's my commendation for this exposure, just to clarify this matter that mayors, mayors, mayors local sheriffs and local powers, you've noticed very well that they're actually poor, often if they're not political-like, they can arrange meetings with ministries, have building permits, projects, but if you don't belong to the same political option you'll find it hard to get funding for certain projects. That's how it's been all this time since the Croatian state. All the time. I hope that this year when the budget of the Republic of Croatia is going to change, and you are absolutely right and I say it for many years that Croatia needs fiscal decentralisation above all, so you can imagine what it would be like if only 2% of this increased VAT went to local self-government units, which would be possible for local self-government units at that time to finance all projects, from sports, social media, increasingly imposes the social problem in local self-government and all the way to municipal infrastructure. This is one of the future tasks and this Croatian government that must go through this fiscal decentralisation and realize that the problem is not solved in Zagreb but above all in local self-government. Big majority of problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20307	Thank you. The answer to the replica Damir Mateljan.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20308	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Yes, well, I've been acting alone since 2004 in co-habitation with state authority, let's say so, but until now I've managed to increase the local budget by one seven times precisely for the reasons of European funds. And so I think that responsibility is on the local self-government, that it has to strengthen itself primarily its human capacity. Be assured that things are changing, it is proof that I, who know all the ministers, can come to any minister unless I have a project, unless my project documentation is okay, God regrets that I know him, and that's a good way. That's the way to go on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20309	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. Tatjana Shimac Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20310	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister with his associates. Here we see today a very big interest and different thinkings that are naturally fundamental as the vice president has just told us about impossible predictable misunderstandings. We all certainly have a variety of examples that we can make here. Such a proposal to amend and supplement is certainly a way of controlling power, a way of resolving competence between the executive authority or representative authority, all of which is in the citizens' interest and, of course, the aim of increasing the level of responsibility was the executive authority, representatives of the executive authority or representative authority. When we look at the mayor today under today's law, he has a very strong position. Of course, this position lies with him from the very way of direct choice and also from the existing legal provisions that, for example, exist. If the budget is not brought to early elections, it means it is not going to go but only to the city council. Therefore, in these ways of relations we cannot expect this very mayor to encourage a relationship, to build some consensus towards the council. That is why a new legal framework was needed to promote such cooperation. Because unfortunately, when it comes to disagreements, very often our citizens are victims. The mayor's strong position, of course, allows for effective work, but this should be followed by great responsibility, and we have seen prime ministers and various sheriffs and emperors, etc. Because the hand on the heart all depends on the psychological profile of a man. And it is not said, "Give the man authority, and see how he is." And very often it is visible that the present particular interests are personal interests and that they are actually above public interest. This proposal increases the mayor's powers, increases his power to appoint representatives of companies. But here I wonder where the supervisory function of the representative body is. And here it is necessary to appeal and say that this bill, too, may be another instruction to all citizens that this is precisely the kind of thing that actually makes them think well about who they choose to be representatives of the executive government or the mayor. There's something else I'd like to say about the deputy mayor. They're elected directly as mayors. They're on that rounding ticket. Today, there have been various findings as to whether they are worth something or not, whether they are ruining the mayor or whether they are helping the mayor to come to power. The law states that the mayor is essentially an executive body but does not prescribe what the deputy is doing, that the deputy performs executive tasks. That's not what the law so far has said. So far, the law has essentially not given a definition of the deputy mayor. And no matter how many of us we are here, we will surely have every story of what our mayor's relationship is, or what authority we have, and in what way. So what's the status when we look at it? The law does not prescribe anything about deputies, the mayor can trust and not have to, and the deputy is obliged to adhere to everything the mayor has to do to him or give him power of attorney or not to give him power to do so. But I repeat, the deputy has received legitimacy directly. He wasn't named mayor. So it's in the law unarranged. What does it look like in practice? Well, in practice, it seems very often that deputies are well-paid ficuses or sleeping beauty, etc. Citizens expect much because they think that we have a responsibility or that we have no responsibility but to have the power or power of decision. However, the law so far has not defined it. It is also not defined how the mayor can sanction a deputy if he does not act as he says. This law prescribes the exercise of executive power by deputies, however, only when the mayor's term of office ceases and should be more than two years. Why two years? What was not part of the executive authority until then, until then, was not important in all of this, until then it was not possible that he had no authority or responsibility, so I ask the question of what was the deputy in the first two years at all? Is it really a ficus? I think there's still a lot of work to be done and including all these remarks. And I will finish my discussion with the inscription standing at the entrance of the Prince's court. You know that there was a prince in the Dubrovnik Republic who writes "Olith Privatorum of the public girls," so we leave it private, we accept it socially, and that's what needs to lead us all whether we're representatives of the executive or representatives of the representative government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20311	Thank you. The replica of Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20312	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, this is exactly what I've been pointing to, and I point out once again in order for the Proposer to really consider this article of the 12th proposed law, in which he says in an explanation that he has resolved the issue of the executive authority in a way that is now not only the mayor, but also the deputy. However, it is not because he speaks of the deputy as the holder of the executive authority only when he steps into office as mayor, mayor or mayor and deputy position remains completely undefined. So he's going, he's choosing on the list directly with the mayor. What's their relationship between them? What can the mayor do if his deputy mayor starts doing the opposite or destroying him and obstructing him? So it's not this law, these amendments have been settled, and it's been agreed that even in the existing law, and that's why it's an opportunity for us to settle these relationships.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20313	Reply to the replica Tatjana Šimac Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20314	Thank you very much. My colleagues agree with you, of course, and I repeat, the law does not prescribe what it does, it prescribes that the mayor can and does not have to give some authority, and the deputy is obliged to listen to what he says. But the deputies are also people we're all responsible for. Therefore, if we will and duty, we will also have responsibilities in all of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20315	We're continuing the debate. It's Miss Plancic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20316	Dear vice president, respected ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. As the proposal itself has identified the proposed amendments and the additions of this law aim to more precisely determine the role of executive, i.e. representative authorities in the units of local self-government in order to resolve the identified problems and all in the interests of citizens. In my opinion, the proposed solutions go in this direction and I think they are significantly better than the existing ones and therefore I certainly support the adoption of these amendments and additions. As I have the experience of acting as executive authority, I feel called upon to look back at a part of the proposed solutions that I want to empower, or one that I think might still be done. First, Article 4. The draft law amending Article 28 personally does not support the regulation of the exact number of members of the representative body with a detailed examination of the scale by which the units are classified according to the number of inhabitants. Namely, the number of members of the representative body is regulated by the applicable law in the range depending on the number of residents of the local self-government unit, by setting out the exact number of members of the representative body by its own statute, so I advocate that it remains so, and that the law does not suspend the right of units of local self-government to determine the number of members of the representative body itself. The fact is that, in practice and according to the knowledge that I have through the association of cities, the majority of units of local self-government seek not to increase the number of members of the representative body to the legal maximum primarily because of the level of compensation to council members who, in four years of their regular term, reach a significant amount and represent a financial burden on increasingly scarce local budgets. The second thing I want to point out is Article 21. Draft draft law supplementing Article 48(1) These amendments propose redefining the powers of the municipal chief, mayor or mayor by prescribing the authority to appoint and resolve representatives of the local self-government unit in the bodies of public companies and other legal entities established by the decision of the representative body by the local self-government unit and thus removing the ambiguities and problems from the so far frequently unequal practice. I personally fully support the proposed addition of the law, because as it seems in practice and I have experienced it myself, and even now, at the end of the term of office, I often feel like a mascot that has assumed great responsibility for tied hands without... Management because all city utility companies and all city institutions in my local self-government are managed by the administration set up by the opposition in the city council. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition to the support given below, it would like to take a closer look at the provisions relating to the powers of the Executive Head for the appointment and resolution of the representative of the local self-government unit in the congregations of the company. Who makes up the company's assembly, and the issue of choice, i.e. the appointment of members of the board of directors and supervisory boards established by the units of local self-government, is therefore determined by a special law – the Law on Commercial Companies. This law defines a company as a legal person whose establishment and structure are determined by that law. Therefore, the unit of local self-government, or founder of a company, of limited liability companies, may, in a social contract, declare the establishment of a company, and not the statute or statute of the unit of local self-government, be legally distributed only under the powers laid down in the Company Act. The provisions of the article of that law no doubt indicate that the Assembly of the Commercial Society constitute its members in a situation where the unit of local self-government is the sole founder and member of the company’s company’s company’s congregation makes the city its sole member and no one else. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on local and regional regional self-government is prescribed to represent the municipality, the mayor or mayor, or the town or county. It follows that the Assembly of a company which has only one member makes up the same member representing the mayor under its law, and the mayor is the only one authorised to represent the unit of local self-government and in the assembly of such a society. Therefore, as a congregation of society on behalf of its sole member, the city can only be decided by a person who is legally authorised to represent the city, which is the mayor. Therefore, the city's representation by the mayor is the only thing where the city is the sole founder of a company cannot depend on the will of a representative body. That it is thus confirmed by the judgments of the Commercial Courts, as well as by the expert opinions of prominent legal experts from which I point out academics Jakša Bargić, the head of the Department for the Rights of Society and Commercial Law at the Faculty of Law in Zagreb and professors... Professor at the Department of Commercial Law of the Faculty of Law in Split. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Regulation of powers to the Executive Head for the appointment and resolution of the representative of the unit of local, i.e. regional self-government in my opinion, in accordance with the provisions of the Commercial Society Act, by giving the proposed additional executive head the power to appoint other persons as representative of the local self-government unit as the sole legal representative of the local self-government unit in the bodies of companies as representative of the unit of local self-government. I also support part of the provision of Article 48, which limits the right of the Executive Chief to appoint and resolve representatives of the unit of local self-government in public bodies, companies and other legal entities unless the special law provides otherwise. We often heard in a public debate that such a decision would give the mayor too much authority. And I ask the question of how can the mayor be responsible to the citizens for performing the basic functions of the city in a situation where there is no impact on the business of the city's municipal societies and city institutions? At the same time, I advocate to tighten the mechanisms for recalling the executive leader if he violates the regulations or is requested by a significant number of citizens or representative body i.e. to return to the law the implementing provisions on the possibility of replacing the Executive Head of the referendum. And finally, the third thing I want to point out is Article 47 of the Law, which adds a new title behind Article 85, which reads: "At the same time the disbandment of the representative body or the resolution of the municipal chief, mayor, or mayor and his deputy." Article 85a therefore provides for the suspension of both the representative body and the municipal chief if no budget is adopted within a specified period, i.e. a decision on temporary financing. In my opinion, the provisions need to be made more clear. It is not clear to me what it is intended to achieve by that provision. So may I be allowed to ask the question why should the municipal chief, mayor, or mayor, and his deputy be relieved of his duties if he proposed the budget under the law and for some reason the representative body did not accept it, or bring it in? Or vice versa, why should the representative body be disbanded if the executive body has not submitted the draft budget and the budget could not be adopted? I think that, in this case, we should first distinguish and then make an addictive disbanding of the representative body, i.e. the resolution of the executive head of responsibility, either for the situation, i.e. one or the other. for the fact that the budget has not been adopted. In particular, although the link and interdependence of the executive head and representative body of the unit of local self-government in the process of budgetary adoption or other acts adopted by the representative body on a proposal from the executive body should be irrefutable by law, the consequentity of the consequences with the responsibility of either the executive head should be prescribed by the law of any representative body for failure to comply with the prescribed obligations. Therefore, the disbanding of the representative body, i.e. the resolution of the executive head, should be regulated depending on which of them failed to comply in the process of exercising the legal powers of local self-government, or which of them failed to fulfil its obligations properly within the time limits and in accordance with the relevant legal provisions. And in practice, the situation of the Executive Head’s resolution should be avoided if it has fulfilled its obligation, i.e. the resolution of the representative body if they were not in a situation to adopt a budget. Finally, by looking at and assessing the proposed amendments and additions to the law as a whole, I believe positive and acceptable that the proposal will be further developed until the second reading in the interest of making local self-government function better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20317	Thank you, too, Your Honor. The next is a respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20318	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So when you talk to citizens whether they are members of representative bodies, executive bodies or only citizens in certain units of local self-government, all of you are mostly exposed to their problems starting with us the situation is specific. It's almost an unspeakable rule that always happens. And it's very difficult to pass one general act that should regulate a whole series of specific situations. Because here in the county where I come from, where there are only 35 municipalities and 7 cities each of the municipalities, each city has its specific situation. However, I think it is certainly necessary to welcome the amendments and additions of this law because its indeterminateities have often been abused, or used for daily political purposes. First of all, I think of the interpretations of the competent authority that once ruled in favour of the executive, and sometimes in favour of the representative authority which at least was incorrect, or the rules of the game were not clearly defined. I believe that this law, i.e. amendments and additions to this law, is more specifically defined rules of the game. That is why some colleagues and colleagues have mentioned the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which is why I agree that local self-government is the cornerstone of democracy in this society in which we live, especially if we are talking about local self-government and I am glad that the minister announced and that we will soon discuss a law that will particularly regulate local self-government. Because it is the most direct form of democracy and means managing its community that citizens can have. So there is certainly local self-government because people sitting in certain bodies make certain decisions and citizens are not some abstract characters that they see on television or sometimes at some celebrations, but are people who are their neighbours, who also live in these units of local self-government and share the fate of the same. So first of all, what I would like to point out in this legislative proposal is that the relationship between executive and representative authorities is finally regulated. So the mayor, the mayor, the mayor and the council, or the assembly. Thus, the pronunciation states that competences fall within the body's body's cleavage. The executive authority which has additional legitimacy by directly elected and under this bill, such as colleagues and colleagues before me mentioned the appointment of the company's parliaments, also appoints the leaders, but in some ways it is logical and understandable to me, since the executive authority that has the legitimacy of direct elections only needs to choose its closest associates, so here I am talking first of all about the leaders, people who will oversee and manage the work of companies, communal companies, etc. that are owned by the local self-government unit and thus implement the programme that these people have promised their voters. Without further ado, the representative body is the basis of local democracy, any democracy, however, but the saying in the European Charter of Local Self-Government states that the representative body is the foundation and should therefore have stronger control mechanisms, primarily for business of any commercial company, any municipal company that is in the jurisdiction of the units of local self-government. According to this proposal to amend and supplement the laws, as well as to the old councils, the assembly will continue to receive reports on the business of city firms. Therefore, it is a form and mechanism of control that may exist, but it may also be necessary to consider some stronger mechanisms where the representative body will be able to directly and more strongly influence the business of these companies. However, political responsibility should primarily be shared in accordance with jurisdiction, so far we have had cases where the mayor is responsible for everything, although the representative body sometimes imposes decisions that she or he disagree with. The other thing is the budget. The budget is you will agree most important to each unit of local self-government, as the most important basic document, according to which projects are carried out on its territory. And it is logical for me, at least, that this document must reach a consensus, i.e. that there must be an agreement that the executive and representative authorities at the local level should function. However, it should be pointed out here that responsibility should be on both bodies, both on executive and representative, because we have discussed here legal regulations that can be better, some worse, but the key question is, at first, we as a society actually grew up for such a step in democracy that we did when we introduced the direct election of the mayor, mayor, or mayor. My colleague, Vrbat, mentioned some before me, I would have characterized these unbulful cases when most of the mayor's representative body imposed crazy ideas, so the budgets were voted on by dozens of millions of kunas that would have been used for the construction of the pool, but the council members themselves were aware that these were unrealistic expectations, i.e. that these funds would not be. Now I'm going to caricate you to the truth, I'm going to go a little ad absurd, but such a city council can decide to build space ships on its territory and to set aside billions of kunas for the construction of a dock on which they will be built, although it doesn't make any sense, and it's clear to everyone that this money will never be moved, and the mayor will be responsible for carrying out that warrant, or as such when it doesn't meet, it won't work because it's completely insane and out of his mind then I wonder if he'll be responsible for the court. So I think that responsibility should be shared and that the representative body whose legitimate right is... and the obligation to participate in policy-making at local level, as the representative body may also be the most visible model of the political will of citizens, i.e. citizens in the territory of a particular unit of local self-government, so that they participate in the creation of a budget, so projects and policies at local level. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But then, like his colleague Kregar mentioned it, we tend to do that in daily policy matters to bring about an ad absurdum. And in the end, I would refer to the referendum. That's what the minister said on the committees on several occasions, the referendum is a double cheater, actually, because it didn't work anywhere. In my view, it may be necessary to consider that this provision should therefore remain in this law, although I consider that practice has shown that it will only have a symbolic value, since it was simply inexecutable in practice. I also agree that executive power cannot be the one that is absolute, therefore which is immeasurable, but whether it is a referendum practice has shown that it is extremely difficult to perform. In any case, I welcome the adoption of this law and I hope that in the second reading we will see many quality solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20319	Thank you very much. The next is Zeljko Kolar, a respected representative. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20320	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear ministers. Well, I don't have as long experience as my colleague Vinkovic to be mayor in several terms, but I was an opposition city councilman, so I was city council president, so I was a member of the county headship, so I was now directly elected mayor with 68% in the first round, my list of half-dominated majority, so I could say something about these relations. First, it should be said that the Republic of Croatia has made tremendous progress since the 1990s, and that there have been no more of these supernadal cases as were in the units of local self-government about the purchases and this by colleague Vinkovic, there may be, but very few and very rare examples, and I see no reason why such a, such mistrust with people who have just been elected by the citizens to perform these duties. I was the president of the city council, and I can tell you that it is immeasurable to be directly elected mayor with the powers and responsibilities I have, but not the work I have in relation to being president of the city council. It is not easy to give your name and name whether you go as an independent candidate or if the party stands behind you, you give not only your name and name, you give your entire career, your whole family, it is all in focus to you, and if you do not perform your duty according to the law, in accordance with people's expectations, you will come very soon to the first page. The elected city councilman, after being elected to the council, so if the opposition is practically four years away from coming to the city council and there is no way that these same people who voted for him to call him off in any way and what his responsibility was, was not at all interested in the work he was doing, probably not even his own party would run for office anymore. That's one side of the story. On the other hand, the town council's story as a legislative body also has some powers and needs to try to find a balance. First around the mayor's recall I think you should stay that... you should stay and they can make it a citizen. You need to see what the best measure to take is if you've been chosen by 68% of people can't change you 25%. However, some measure and this construction mechanism that you have directly chosen to be changed by their will should remain. This system we've only been working on for four years now, but for some more serious analysis, maybe we should have played 8, 12 so we can see if it's good or not. But I personally don't mind that if you don't get a budget under normal conditions to go both, to go to the council and mayor because in Krapina-Zagorje, it was once done and people recognized that the mayor was right and with his list he was mixed up in the re-elections. You don't have to underestimate people. And when we're in opposition, then it's our people's fault and when we're in power, then people are fine. That is not so, we have to ask ourselves why we sometimes get people's trust, which is why sometimes we don't get people's trust. And there should be a very clear one. As far as the headmaster is concerned, I'm not even personally sure. It's one question of small environments, one question of great environments, but when you come and take responsibility, it's objectively that you want your team. I came across a headmaster who's a 12-year-old head and he stayed because he's great and I don't think a colleague who's going to come after me is going to change him because a man knows everything. He also attended several seminars this year, EU funds are being monitored, additional schools are being trained to speak foreign languages. Who's gonna get rid of a man like that? No one's normal. Therefore, it is not necessary to underestimate the mayors who come to do some cleaning work now, especially in small areas. So we all know each other. Today you're mayor tomorrow you're not and you have to stay in your little town or in your village or in your place call it whatever you want and meet with these people every day. Well, you're not just living that term for four years while you're mayor, so you're staying there all the time, and you should keep that in mind. What I think should be changed, which is an article that is related to the availability of property means that the municipal chief and mayor or mayor may decide on the height of the individual value of a maximum of 0.5% of the amount of income without the income achieved in the year preceding the year to be decided, etc. And that's where my colleague Bacic was right. So we can hit a job without a public tender up to 70 thousand kuna but you can't buy a playground plot for a playground is an estimated plot of 30 thousand kuna, and you have a limit of 28 thousand 500 and you have to call the city or you have to wait three months after that, and then you can't call the competitions to do these works and after that, it's been a year. This is life, and there should certainly be something to do to determine some normal limits that would be the case, and the mayor means twice a year, except for this act of the budget, which is currently being run around, twice a year, reporting on his work as a city council, and it may happen that the city council does not accept the mayor's report. You should take care of that too. The term of office after two years that, after that, if the mayor resigns, he may be replaced by the deputy and there are no new elections. Who's going to run in advance to be mayor for two years? What motive to enter the election campaign to defeat your political opponent, offer your fellow citizens some kind of program based on which you want to win the election and leave after two years to continue your deputy? And my deputy is who I chose to go to the election with me he knows everything I don't know. And that's why I took it so we could be as good and as acceptable in people's choices as possible. And it's these very rare things. And just in case it happens that after 2.5 years or three years, if I were mayor or anyone else and that the Prime Minister invited him to become a minister and that deputy to continue to do that duty until the election, I think it would be an honor for all of my city and for all those who voted for me and didn't, but to their misfortune and mine, it won't happen. But it's something that's in exceptional cases, and we're not discussing something today as if it's going to be a rule. I think there's one more thing to solve, and that's... a state audit. No one talked about it today, and I think it's the key. You have unconditional opinion, conditional and negative. And now we have almost 90% of the local self-government units have a conditional opinion, but the ratio of what got them conditional opinion is huge. Let's see if we have scores from 1 to 5. One who is negative automatically wastes, one who is sufficient institutions must deal with it. We can't all be great there either, but the alarm is if it's not enough. How many mayors and mayors currently do not respect the provision to spend 20% on wages how many units of local self-government should be abolished under current law because they do not perform their functions and not now but years ago. And we should talk about it, but we're not talking about it. And every time we start discussing local self-government at the moment the elections are coming. Unfortunately, sometimes justified, sometimes unwarranted. But the taste of ending should have more trust in people who choose their own citizens and the mandates do not last 20 years. It's been four years, and I don't believe that people will re-elected the mayor of the one they weren't happy with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20321	Thank you, Your Honor. We have three replicas on your exhibit. He is the first respected representative of Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20322	Here's the thing about wanting to mention me a few times. This whole debate was actually supposed to go away, at least I was trying to get through in a tone like this first constructively. So it's obvious that people who acted, so this executive government knows far better the problems that they met not only in the former, so the system when there was headship, when the mayor was elected from the city council or the mayor or the mayor didn't matter now, when he could practically be replaced, not because the citizens turned their backs, so he was the bearer of that list that won the most votes in the election, but because the councils were being sold, resold, etc. On the other hand, it is also visible in this system when it was a direct choice that this very referendum provision prevented me from saying to the representative body that I would simply say under quotes is going wild and that it is practically doing obstruction. There are examples where mayors will no longer be elected, because citizens and those who go to elections are foolish and will vote for someone who does not come to work, who has not run the city properly, etc. There are all the elements, so I would say positive responsibilities that are already contained in the system of the law that simply no one can behave in a way that is not appropriate to that place. And I'm glad you noticed a number of other things that are primarily related to the functioning of local self-government, both executive and representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20323	Thank you very much. The next replica and respected representative of Branko Box. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20324	I thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Kolar, you have said about the leaders that there is no need to underestimate the commissioners, mayors related to the replacement of the head, citing their example of how a man is educated, monitoring EU funds, speaking language, etc. It would've been nice if what happened at the beginning of this year when 120 management heads were replaced by the move of a feather. Can you answer me how many of those you listed were good and high quality among those 120 and were still removed, and were selected through the contest? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20325	Thank you very much. Third replica, the respected representative Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20326	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colar, a colleague, encouraged me to do this replica because of the fact he spoke about the termination of the mandate and the motives for a competition in general in the mayoral, mayoral or mayoral elections. I believe in your sincere and good motives and believe in the motives of all those who appear in elections to be elected to certain duties. But in this particular case, it's not a question of motive. It doesn't matter what motive you're in the election from. It is important to ask whether it is okay that after two years of your term of office you do not give voters the right to choose their mayor in the elections, and I would comment only on this proposal in Article 14. The law because here is part of your problem with mandates, which is the fact that there is something that has not been or has been quite a different statement. They are now talking about the end of the mayor's term for those reasons in the current law, but that their mandate ceases by law in the case of a prescribed special law. So, now, the mandates that are in the law so far on elections will be spoken of by the taxing reasons for the termination of the mandate, and we will now introduce some other laws that will also talk about the possibility of your mandate stopping, but not for these reasons mentioned in the Law on Elections of those leaders, but from some other special laws. In fact, it's probably an intervention because of your colleague who's now the chairman of a large company's administration, and in fact illegally appointed his deputy so he can take on another duty. That's what we're talking about, that you're not giving the right choice, not the motives why you're competing.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20327	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Željko Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20328	Dear colleague Mlakar, it's whether to see if the glass is half full and half empty. You're obviously half empty, and I'm half full. The people when they chose on the list were both the mayor and his deputy. People knew who they voted for. It will be rare cases when the mayor, for some reason, will leave after two or two and a half years of three years. Unless you know something that you're preparing for the local elections, you're trying to re-evaluate what's about to happen. I am convinced, I am convinced by talking to colleagues from all over Croatia who are now doing the job and 90% of them will run again, that no one can think of running for two years and a day to leave it to someone. Well, it's not like he's gonna be given two years and a day, so he's gonna get a pension that could once have been done with a parliamentary term. This is one job you do, you run one piece of the track, and somebody else comes and runs. I don't see why we're mystifying it. It's like being the mayor or the mayor of a city or the best job in the world that can be found here. It's a great honor and obligation for everyone chosen by people from his place. So, who knows him best.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20329	Thank you very much. We're going forward with an individual debate of MPs. Dear Representative Ivan Klarin is entitled to 10 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20330	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with his associates and with a letter of respect from the government. Mr. President, at the beginning of the debate at 9.30, you said this debate would take six hours, I mean, if I'm not a good mathematician, but we're going in at 8:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20331	Mr. Representative, a net debate means no replicas, no stops, no obstructions.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20332	I thank you. So it is important to say about the amendments and the addition of this law that it is trying to create an additional stability that between the representative body and the executive body, listening to all these discussions, everyone is speaking somehow from their own backyard, from their well, so that in Dalmatia they tell me so the mayors defend the mayor's position so that they can be parliamentary representatives, those who do not say it is not good. So there's a saying in Dalmatia that someone's barking over the village, that they're not barking about the village, they're barking about themselves, but I'm not comparing it now. So, as far as this law itself is concerned, I consider a few things to be good. I will try to shorten my debate as we have said, here are eight hours of debate, a net debate for six hours, so as far as the referendum is concerned, an advisory referendum is being introduced in Article 2. Often as a young chief of staff in my municipality, my senior colleagues say, "Why aren't there any choirs of citizens?" I mean, it's something that people are used to when they're in the former states, but later in our country, so the mayors often convened choirs of citizens. In this advisory referendum we often try, which is good, so get an opinion from our people if we are directly selected from them but it is also good. I support that provision. As for deputies acting as deputies, so after two years of time, I think that's very good. I think Mrs. Lovrin criticized it, I'm sorry if I made a mistake, why do I think that's good? You have a case now, and the minister very much, I hope he knows, in the city of Drnis, unfortunately a month ago, the mayor of Drnis passed away. And now the 12th month elections are being discussed to re-schedul the next local elections at 5th. So, apart from the constitutive session of the new city council, I don't think any next session of the city council will be held, it won't be a simple time. I'm sorry there are no representatives from the Sibenik-Knin County there, two days ago, the mayor of Sibenik-Kninski therefore calls for a press release why the elections have not yet been held? So I support his position, it's his legitimate right, but I find it unnecessary. So, there is a continuity that is said on several occasions, and normal and stability of government because it is practically here when I mentioned the city of Drnis he is practically in that period for 6 months and more than when the mayor unfortunately passed away he is a total city administration out of function which I believe is therefore not good. And I would also like to welcome the number of members of the representative body, so far has been defined in the ranges so that each unit of local self-government in its statute has chosen a number of members of the municipal councils of the city councils, etc. So we have an example. in my county that at least municipalities, my municipality is specifically the largest municipality in Sibenik-Knin County, but it doesn't matter, so at least the municipalities have the largest number of representative bodies, have the highest number of council members. And every councilman, every chief, the mayor, so before holding his own local elections, he goes to himself, so he sets up the number of representative bodies that suit him. that his list gets most of it, so in practice we have frequent amendments to the statutes almost at the last meetings of the city and municipal councils, which is precisely because of that part of the increase in the number of representative bodies. The greatest praise and privilege of two things that the mayors will be able to directly appoint congregations of city and municipal companies. I don't think it's a good idea for local politics to break through utility companies, utility companies are exclusively executive firms. Where you'll get more executions than purity, greenery, etc. Unfortunately, we have a number of examples where the mayors are one political option, the council of other political options. The Council elects representatives of the assembly and then we get an opposition to the mayor in our own municipal enterprise. What has proved to be bad many times, so the most famous example in the country is therefore the ratio of the City of Zagreb and the City of Holding. I don't know in my case what I'd do if it were my opposition in my communal, I don't think it would work, but then the citizens who expect one and the other to be more efficient. I won't last much longer, I'd say in the end, as far as the local committees are concerned. There is also a situation in a state that is not heard, if I may say so, so everyone interprets it as they will, normally as it is specified in their statutes. So a lot of cities and municipalities, almost all of them, have local committees in their statutes, but these local committees, these elections for the councils of local committees, to be more specific, are not being questioned at all. I therefore support the minister's announcement to amend the law on this matter. For example. Mayor Skradin Mr. Dujic has in his statutes local committees, he has never called them off. We would all like to be mayors if no one touches us, that no one criticises us, and often these councils of local committees are therefore the most directly elected leaders of therefore local committees that control and even in this case they are for me and advisory bodies. I would also like to list one example that is not even in the country, so if the settlement, city or municipality has 9 settlements in its district, there are elections for a place where the city is center, and somewhere they don't question it. In particular, in my municipality there are so called, and there are also local committees of the seat itself, while for example. There's no colleague Branke from Vodice, that's not the case in Vodice. So I think that such provisions and such practices must be evened. As far as the law is concerned, normally I will commend him, it was said earlier that the consensus was passed, so the amendments and the addition of the local law, when the mayors were directly elected to the Parliament, we approached the developed countries, but there is a lot of uncertainty, so I welcome the amendments and additions of this law, and the next law on local elections which, normally I call for the second reading to be by the end of the year, to enter into the new election year with the law, so I welcome that order is finally being introduced and clean the yard before the local elections themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20333	Thank you, too. Let's go forward. Dear Representative Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20334	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. Here I am, in a few words, going to say my vision of this bill. First of all, I would like to say that we have heard a really good and constructive debate today, and that it is obvious to all of us that we have one stable system of local self-government in a political and any other sense, and I think it was also the intention of the promoter to come to an even more stable political system at the local level through changes, through a proposal to amend this law. Whether it's going to be or not, that's another question. I'm not going to talk a lot about what some colleagues have mentioned, I think the time we're discussing is not the best, it could have been discussed much earlier, it's all six months until the local elections and those who talked about the good spirit of parliamentary practice, I think they're absolutely right, but we leave it aside, I would say more here about two by myself the key reasons why I shouldn't support this bill. It is the first, Mr. Minister, that through this law, you provide an opportunity for the mayor, the mayor and the mayor to be replaced by those who did not choose him. Does it make sense that a body that has not chosen leaders has the authority to replace a leader? For me, it's totally unacceptable, and I think that's exactly the way to what we don't want, political instability, that the path to political trade, corruption to political and all, and the fact that in some units of local self-government, we're going to have a crisis situation every year and the question of whether to survive mayor, mayor, mayor, and whether to remain this same assembly of municipal, city, city council, and county council. That wasn't the case until now. The local self-government in these 19 years is how much the local self-government system is, whether it's that old model when the headship of the municipality, the city or the county was elected in the council or in the assembly or it worked directly. Well, now. So they also heard in this debate today that there were no cases, many cases of crisis situations, only a few, that there were three or four how many referendums or attempts to pass through the referendum mistrust or trust to the mayor. So that's the first one for me I'd say an illogical situation would give opportunity to those who didn't choose a leader to replace it. And at the same time through this law, you take away the opportunity of those who chose the mayor, the mayor and the mayor to relieve him. So it's also completely illogical. So citizens who have been elected to the election with a certain percentage, is it so, both the turnout and the votes for the commissioner, no longer have the possibility through the amendment of this law to influence at all whether this man should remain the mayor, mayor or mayor. The referendum is no matter what the best model is. If there was no percentage censorship for Croatia's entry into the European Union in the referendum, why would there be censorship here? Who says it has to be 50% plus one vote? Why doesn't it be that the referendum is legitimate if it comes out as many citizens as it's been elected? I think it's the only logical solution. Rarely where you have and in a small midfield case that more than 40 percent went to the polls, to a local percentage of more than 40 percent. Then why wouldn't that be a condition? Or that there's no conditions at all. How many people go to the referendum, he's legitimate and the decision is legitimate and there's no choir. So that's two key things for me why I can't support this law because these two would say great illogicalities and I don't think it's good that there are such illogicalities in the law. It's fortunate that this is the first reading and you have until the second reading to complete this bill. And I am convinced that then there is a good chance that we can all really support the law if a good part of these proposals that you could hear today through this parliamentary debate is included in the draft law in the second reading. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20335	Thank you, Your Honor. The next is Honorable Representative Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20336	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So after such a long debate, just let me discuss it for a little while, and I'll make some points that I think are important here to say. The objective of the proposal for this law was defined by the Government as strengthening political stability in relation to, greater efficiency in the performance of the affairs and clearer determination of the rights, obligations and responsibilities of the representative and executive body. We can all agree more or less that the legal solution that was before 2009 was not good because it allowed the representative body to change the voter's will and the most common way of political trade, or to say even rougher often and political prostitution. The existing solution again does not define in a satisfactory manner the relationship between the representative and the executive body and the liability for non-functional which is only overlooked by the disbanding of the representative body. The resolution of the mayors, mayors and mayors according to an existing resolution based on the referendum was in practice irreparable. This is the area of the regulation. This area seeks to regulate this bill as an institute for the simultaneous disbanding of the representative executive body because their responsibility does not start and cease from the start of the electoral process itself, and must not prevent their actions from disabling the basic function that they have been chosen for. Since deputies are elected together with the commissioners, it is good for mayors and mayors to also define their executive powers because it is fair and fair to them because they are not and should not be just a class of democracy. Practical reasons for both politically and financially being respected in resolving the continuation of the deputy's mandate in the second half of the same when the head for a particular reason can no longer perform the same function. Of course we don't think anyone here would knowingly go to the polls to spend two years in office. The provision on the rule of selection of the deputy representative body in the order of the representative minority is good. It certainly contributes to increasing the quality of democracy in local self-government but is not precisely defined, and accordingly its feasibility is questionable. Discussing the percentage relative to the number of voters proposing a referendum is a good solution, and I believe 20% is a pretty balanced percentage. It is necessary to welcome the regulation of the exact number of members of the representative body with a well and logically defined scale in relation to the number of inhabitants because I think there have been more cases of indifference or disproportionateness in relation to the number of inhabitants and the number of members of the representative body in practice. It is not bad to mention when we are already talking about clear regulation and what is not the subject of this law because it is defined by the Law on wages in local self-government and the amount of salaries of the mayor and mayor who determines the representative body. There's mostly no order here. It is often the case that people have either unwarrantedly high or unjustly small compensation and often the difference in their professional preparation or the number of local self-government residents in which they manage and vary. And we heard in the debate that sometimes the representative body performs various acrobatics to harm the leader. The decision to appoint a headmaster to four years in many cases makes sense because, as has already been said here, at least it will stop with hypocritical practice. However, in relation to the single administrative departments in which, given the scope of the business and the specific professional capacity as well as the number of employees, it is not the best solution and should be accounted for. In smaller municipalities, the heads of the single management department are mostly on these jobs for many years and often represent a picturesque expression of one of the pillars of the municipality. To welcome is the regulation of a more precise regulation on the selection procedure of local committees. For example, my municipality, in which I am the head of this election, has been held but there are certain problems in the very functioning of the local committees. Let's just mention the question of their management bill. Of course, it is often too often to expect that local committees themselves will carry out public procurement or competition procedures, and then in this sense their functioning is questionable. At the same time, the disbandment of a representative or executive body seems to be a reasonable solution. In situations where they are no longer able to fulfil their basic obligations for what they were chosen for, it should be possible for citizens to re-elected those who will represent them well. Finally, the draft law in its intensities has good solutions that seek to eliminate the problems and problematic situations that arise in practice and therefore need to be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20337	Thank you, Your Honor. Let's go forward, dear representative Drazenko Pandek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20338	Thank you very much. Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. So the proposed changes to this law have come across a divided opinion. In my legal profession they can joke on our account to say three lawyers five opinions. Here, it could almost be said the same thing to three debaters in a public debate, five opinions and more. These proposed amendments provide essentially suggestions on how to address the outstanding issues raised in the application of this law itself, especially regarding this relationship between the representative body and the body leader. Therefore, in the first instance, the situation observed in practice is addressed, so that the representative body is very limited in the situation where the head of the body submits a budget which the representative body does not wish to accept. So the new solution foresees both the disbanding of the representative body and the resolution of leaders and deputies, which I think is a good solution, and the position of mayors according to the current model was far stronger towards the position of the representative body and this solution essentially brings them into a certain balance. In my opinion, there is a well-proposed control of the application of controls and balances, and the principle of control and balance between the representative body and the executive body should, in my opinion, be withdrawn through all provisions of this law. So the public debates, they were often called precisely on the US political system of stability and longevity can thank the very existence of well-measured control and balance between different authorities. Of course, it would be advisable to extend that principle throughout this law. The introduction, therefore, of a direct selection of local leaders, which was new to 2007 when this law was passed, is a good news for me in our political system, regardless of some of the opinions you heard in the public debate that our political culture is not high enough and that the principle of these direct choices of leaders at the present level of this political culture is not good. I can in some ways agree that the results obtained with this electoral system may sometimes be favourable to the application of demagogy, spins, deception of the electoral body, but I think it is also part of democratic maturation. So it is noticeable that basically the electoral body in Croatia in some environments especially at that level units of local self-government works essentially a lot of shifts... So in one election they choose one person, and in other elections they may choose the diametrically opposite person. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So big oscillations and major shifts on that political scale are noticeable. But I would say that there is also a noticeable and large maturation of that electoral body, I would say even serious and uninhabiting on some cheaper pre-election marketing. I think the next local election will show it. That's not what I'm saying. I have a custom of making more contact with people let's say from the base, down from... And I think I come from one environment that's quite mixed up, from the Sesvet. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a mixed and rural and urban environment, there's a lot of mixed population from indigenous to settler let's say in working villages, so on. The dormitory at the time of the industrial revolution in the 1960s and '70s and now moving in during the war. And none of those environments I have to say are largely buying into some big words behind which narrow private material interests stand. Most people have learned to recognize and see things like that. I think it comes up like I said easy maturation. I am therefore personally a supporter of the direct election of the leader and at the local level, but I also say the spread of this principle continues. But well, it's a topic for a second debate. However, it should be agreed that because of the lack of much experience and some democratic tradition in the application of this system, we still need to have a certain control system. I think that confirms, of course, the practice so far. So I think it would still be good if this institute recalls the mayor in some form not to lose. In a public debate four, five, six months ago, the possibility was mentioned and I think that here, in the debate, there was said to call off the call of the leader, in which case the mandate would cease both the head and the representative body and then be mentioned as some of the best majority of the 20% therefore the electoral body that should be declared to be such an institution of impeachment, and therefore a 50% plus one number of voters who have voted for the selection of the head of the body. I think it was a good solution that was in the public debate and I think it would be good to reconsider it. According to this system of control and balance, however, I think it should be given to the representative body but with a certain delay. For example, to achieve a two-thirds majority of all members of the representative body. This would, in my opinion, establish exactly the balance and control in this matter, the possibility to punish extremely poor work, and that calling the recall option is not so easy that it can destabilise the work of the body and abuse of the institute along with, of course, some procedural dams that this referendum to call it can't be called every hour but must be in certain time periods whether 12, 18 months is the thing that is best estimated to be the best for a particular situation. There has been almost no word in the debate so far, and this is to be traced to this establishment of control and balance allowing the call-off referendum to be called or to be called a representative body. This is because of another very important reason for me, many have talked about it, and this is the fact that party crossings are even if they are motivated by the acquisition of certain syncours or even material benefits and what I consider to be a purely misuse of the position of authority or the receiving and giving of bribes are taken for granted. We all kind of condemn this behavior, but in the end, it just comes down to its shoulders and here's what it's like to be able to do. I think that in our electoral system, however, when selecting a particular list, in most cases, the party color of that list is viewed, so is the person, but in most cases, as the dominant one, I think we can agree to watch the party's membership of the list. Of course, that doesn't apply to independents, so far as we've called them independent lists. If, therefore, there is a change in party uniform, especially if there is a change in the ruling opposition party in the representative's body in terms of twisting the voter's will without a choice, and it is essentially the same result as if the elections were classified, even if it was conditioned by some offer as I said... or some material use. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These crossings may be motivated and understood by some reasons for changes in political commitment, conflicts in the party, etc. Nevertheless, the voter's will in the election is distorted. Let's say, in my example, let's say the Sesveda bases, we had a council of 19 members in which 11 council members changed the party colors and it started about a year after the election. Now, if it's not a defiance of the voter's will and a complete denial of the democratic process, then here's what it is. I think that such behaviour causes legitimate disdain for citizens, contributes to the collapse of confidence in politicians and the system in general, yes. And if, therefore, the party transfers result in the fact that the head of the body has established control over the representative body then the situation in a particular unit would be essentially cemented and neither would the proposal proposed by the ministry therefore go to new elections in the event of the adoption of the budget nor would such an option be possible. I think in such cases there would have to be a system that would allow at least some voter control. So, I suggest that we consider the same system as it was in the public hearing for the mayor's impeachment to provide that in certain cases new elections for a representative body can be requested. There's an objection that it's complicated and that it can cause instability, but what do we have to say in the case of this one I mentioned? Stability that has nothing to do with voter will. There's such stability at the end of the line in dictatorships, isn't there? I think that because of the 20 years of democratic experience in our country, only 20 years of which it was necessary in the war to introduce control mechanisms that would contribute to the consolidation of some democratic standards and explain unwanted behaviors. Furthermore, in the public debate, there have been disagreements over, therefore, disagreements over the appointment of the head of the body, but I see that I am running out of time, so here's only the end of my opinion, and I think that this law is a good basis for discussion, given that he suffers criticism somehow from the diametric opposite sides. I think he's had enough and in most cases he's hit and I expect he'll bring improvement in the second reading and present a good basis for future law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20339	Thank you, too. At your presentation, we have one replica, respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20340	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Pandek, you have listed a series of problems and also specific ones here from your local self-government unit. In fact, it's about what you say is a falsified, so it's a forged election. So it's post-election engineering. There are almost no municipalities in Croatia, the city and the county where there were no such things, to say under the quotes of the "purchases" of the council. So it's just that the voter's will is played. And she was playing. Now, you've also noticed that in such a way, there has been a very ugly and bad opinion of the citizens about politicians. Not just an ugly opinion, but a disgust on politicians. And such ways of buying and counterfeiting are actually an election result, so post-election engineering is wrong for the good part of what citizens think of us all. Now how do you stop it? We can prevent this by saying that democracy has slowly matured after 20 years, but the time has matured to finally make a law that will also prescribe direct elections for the representative body. Not only for the mayoral and mayoral mayors but also for representative bodies, but also for the highest representative body itself, which is the Assembly by name and last name. In that case, whoever is elected to the representative body of any municipality, city, county will not have the possibility, will have the opportunity but certainly his career in the future is over. Most likely, very likely if it plays out citizens' trust, if it sells party uniforms etc. I'm not saying parties shouldn't go to elections, but to give citizens the opportunity to round up the name of the man on the party list, not the whole list.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20341	Thank you very much. Next is the respected representative Mario Moharic. Here you go. ... Did you report the answer? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I didn't see it. I'm sorry, I didn't see. Replication response, distinguished representative Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20342	Thank you. In principle, of course I agree with you, that's what I said in my debate that I believe that regardless of the inadequacy this choice of direct... is good and that it should certainly be further spread. Okay, that may be a question for the next debate to introduce open lists or perhaps smaller election units. Maybe not with one, maybe with three, four candidates on one election list. But in any case, I think that the solution so far regarding this transition and shopping and trade is not good and that some solution must be found that this solution must not remain because unfortunately it will continue to repeat itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20343	Thank you very much. We go with the last registered representative, the respected representative Mario Moharic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20344	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The bill is very good, and I will list a few of my remarks that could improve the law in the second reading. Since the last regular local elections held in May 2009, certain problems have arisen from the fact that the executive powers previously controlled by the representative body through the authority of selection and resolution of the municipal chief, mayor or mayor is now in the exclusive jurisdiction of the directly elected municipal chief, mayor and mayor. Without cooperation between the representative and the executive body in the current legal solution ultimately results in the disbanding of the representative body most often when not proposing a budget. In order to prevent a new solution in this bill, it is to strengthen the interdependence of the representative and the resolution of the executive body in the absence of a budget or temporary financing decision by the representative and executive body precisely in the event of the adoption of a key document, which is the budget of the local unit. It might be good to install a clause in the sense that this decommissioning measure of the representative executive body does not apply in the last year of the term of office when the particular interests of individual parties or groups of citizens are expressed for obstruction and for taking positions for the upcoming elections. I believe that to welcome a new solution in this law that ensures continuity in the conduct of the municipal chief, mayor or mayor in a situation where more than half of the term of office has passed and leaving the possibility of acting by the deputy elected at the same time as the municipal mayor, mayor, or mayor, whose term of office has ceased. The applicable law provides for administrative authorities to be managed by the heads of directors appointed by the municipal chief, mayor or mayor on the basis of the invitation to tender. The bill proposes the appointment of a head of staff at a time of four years, with the possibility of re-naming. This would allow the municipal chief, the mayor, or mayor, in the absence of a headship as a collective executive body to form a team to carry out the tasks of the only part-round management unit of local, or regional self-government during the duration of his term of office. The decision-making of the head is also proposed to be regulated in accordance with specific regulations governing both the rights and duties of the head as officials in local and regional self-government. As part of this, I propose that mayors and mayors in smaller units of local self-government be provided with a view to how they will call the competition to suit them, so that they decide. The amendments to the laws and amendments of the Law on Local, Regional Self-Government in Article 55 suggest that a new item be added, in the event that the municipal chief and mayor fails to carry out the procedure for the appointment of the head, the administrative bodies, as provided for in Article 22 of this Act, shall continue to work in accordance with the existing decision, within the time limit set out in paragraph 1 of this Article. Here are my examples. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20345	At the end of the debate, the Honorable Minister of Management, Bauk Arsen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20346	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. 8 hours and 42 minutes of debate on amendments to the Law on Local Self-Government shows how interesting this topic is, how politically important it is, and how much, as of course, the composition of the football team, we all have opinions about it, and there is always another game coming. I'd just look back on three or four things that took the most of the time in the debate. One question is therefore the way the mayor recalls the citizens. What I realized was that the general conclusion is that the current mechanism is not good, and that in that part of the government's proposal to change it is not problematic, it's just a problematic way of changing it, and it's not to abolish it, but to replace it with a similar and mild mechanism, and I think that those expectations that go in that direction in the second reading will be satisfied. The second challenge is the influence of the representative body on the shift of mayors, i.e. the influence of the assembly or councils on the question of elections for mayors. So there is a certain difference in thinking about whether or not this institute is even applied on one hand, which means that the congregation would still have no effect on the shift of governmental powers. And secondly, whether this institute extends not only to the budget, but also to other situations and to the ultimate ideas that it should be in any situation where one of the political factors assesses that it is necessary. So that's another important element. So there are different sides of the proposal on how to regulate it, and unfortunately all these ideas will not be satisfied in the second reading, so once a year this instrument is a medium or semi-medium solution. And the third objection was about the headmaster, so whether to have an instrument that the mayor of the new one who comes has the right to appoint the headmasters, or the old chiefs in the supposed signs are eternal and irreplaceable, and I think let the captains who are elected worry about it. If their leaders are good, let them leave them, if they are not good, let them change them. And the fourth thing, the question of appointments, therefore, to the Assembly of Commercial Companies, and to public institutions, is now the question of how much it is directed first to put everything in the same basket, so whether public institutions leave exclusively in the jurisdiction of the Assembly and companies in the mayor's jurisdiction, and if it is in the jurisdiction of the mayor who prescribe the mechanism. What's important is that the norm is clear, that it no longer creates confusion and balance between the representative body and the mayor, if not already in the decision-making process, then in the control of the implementation and in some other way, and I believe that we're going to fix this norm as well. The rest, I believe, were therefore proposals for repair, and they will be equally and considered regardless of who they came from, because I believe that it was therefore a constructive and good debate on this law, and I thank everyone once again.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20347	At your presentation, we have a signed replica of the respected representative Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20348	Thank you very much. Short and clear, Mr. Minister. So when it comes to the congregation of society, whether it's commercial, then it's meant to be a set of people, a set of people, so it's not clear to me at all here I've been in some politics for a long time, as a man can be called a congregation. Whether it's the mayor of Slavonski Brod, Zagreb, Varazdin or I don't know who, and why it is once already if he's a congregation doesn't change and set another name. He can't be a congregation, if he's one, how will he, so we all know the gathering, the gathering, or I don't know. Well, here's a suggestion for the Minister to think.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20349	Thank you very much. With this replica, we have exhausted the list of respondents to debate on this subject. I'm closing the debate. We'll decide on the bill when the conditions are met. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government, First Reading, CZ No. 184. The debate on the draft law is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. "The Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed by the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Please state who's behind this conclusion? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote is 91 for, 26 against and 5 abstentions, the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20352	Thank you, Mr. President. So even though some of the provisions of this law have been conducted and during the previous item of the agenda I want to explain this law and why we propose what we propose. So what is fundamentally the electoral system for local elections remains as it has been, and that is the mayor and his deputies are elected by the majority system in two circles, and that the councils are elected by the parliaments with a proportional system at the threshold of 5%. We have also assessed that there is a need for the electoral process for all local administrations to be governed by a single law, and now we have two special laws. It is also proposed in a unique way to settle the issue common to all local elections, and issues specific to certain types of elections are governed by specific provisions of this law. It is proposed to correct the start of the term of office of members of the representative bodies and the start of the term of office of the commissioner. A better and more precise number of signatures for mayors and mayors and voters' lists have been defined, the terminology of the candidate lists and candidates who have proposed the vote has been changed, with the name of an independent list and an independent candidate so far. An adequate term is now being introduced for a candidate list of voters and candidate groups of voters. No-candidate provisions remain as in the current law. It also extends the deadline for running and delivering candidate lists to the competent electoral commission from the 12 to 14 days so far. Certain changes have also been made in the composition of election bodies and the way in which members of election committees and election committees are appointed. It is therefore arranged that those parties who are not represented in the city or municipal council but who are represented in the County Assembly are also taking part and thus increasing the circle of parties that have the right to participate in the control of the elections. A longer deadline is set for the appointment of polling stations, a more detailed matter is being discussed and the possibility of a member of the representative body's term of office is prescribed for personal reasons in the same way as defined in the Croatian Parliament. It shall also be more precisely defined in the event of replacement of a member of the representative body on the candidate list of two or more parties changing. It also foresees a way of establishing a representative body and new deadlines and that it can be established three times. The incompatibility of the simultaneous conduct of responsibilities for municipal commissioners, mayors, mayors and their deputies, or the issue of incompatibility, is extended to the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest, the Law on Police and the Law on Civil Servants. It is also determined that the municipal chief, mayor, mayor and their deputies cannot be at the same time a representative body of the appropriate level of self-government. A period of 8 days shall also be prescribed for the resignation of the non-compatible duty from the date on which the final results of the isolates are declared for the holders of the executive authority. Cases of termination of the term of office shall be prescribed for the municipal chief, the mayor, the mayor and their deputies under the law, in more detail the way in which the elections are to be made and the results of the vote shall be determined for the municipal head, mayor, mayor and their deputy mayors, changes shall be made to the regulation of the issue of representation of national minorities in the representative body of the unit, the replacement of members of the national minority representative body, and the establishment of representation of national minorities in the executive body. The amended regulation would significantly reduce the number of units in which the additional elections would be carried out and would only implement them in the event of the provision of adequate representation in the representative body of the unit where the representation of representatives of national minorities could not be provided in other ways by law, while the selection of deputy mayors, mayors and mayors of the national minority would be carried out at the same time as the selection of the executive body. A single arrangement for monitoring all local elections is prescribed, a way of carrying out election costs and thus safeguarding electoral rights, and a single regulation of infringements and fines for all types of local elections is laid down. The election process will be fully arranged in a unique way for all local elections. Based on observed shortcomings in the implementation of laws that regulate local elections, respecting the DIP recommendations, election processes for all local elections are governed by a single law. So I believe this is a law that will improve the election process for local elections. And here I call on the representatives to discuss it and accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20353	Thank you very much. Do the representatives of the working authorities want to take the floor? I'm saying no. I'm opening a debate. I've opened the debate, so you'll have to do it next time. Okay? ... Let's discuss clubs. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The first is club IDS and respected representative Damir Cain. He's not in the hall, he's losing his right to debate on this subject. The second club is the club of Croatian Labourists and respected representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20354	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President and Minister. What I want to say at first is, for us in the Croatian Labours, a direct selection of the mayors of municipalities, mayors and mayors is not a question, nor do we consider that there is one serious argument why the model of direct elections should be reconsidered. Of course, only after the third election cycle will a qualitative analysis of the repairs of why the direct selection model is introduced. I won't spend time on history now, you all know how many problems there were, political trade, shopping and stealing mandates when councils and congregations elected mayors, mayors and mayors. The exchange by citizens, it was already a subject, one of the essential parts of this model. Now, for a concrete proposal to improve the law until the second reading. Article 6 of the election deadline shall be set at least 30, up to 60 days due to a number of working days, and in particular by the authorities overseeing the elections, appointments. I think it would be better if we went 45 to 60 days to get more time in peace... to prepare and store because I think that 30 days is too short. Article 9 refers to respect for the principle of gender equality and to the specific law. You see, Ministers, this is one provision in this law that does not otherwise mean anything because according to this special law on gender equality, which the Government, and based on the proposal for authentic interpretation of the laws of Agent Tyrelli, thinks is clear and does not need to be interpreted, has actually been found to be unclear. In fact, the obligation of at least 40% of women on the lists prescribed in this law has raised doubts since they have been applied and since the sanctioning of parties and independent lists that will not respect the principle. And based on the government's opinion, which has come to the conclusion that this provision on the mandatory management of gender equality accounts has actually been applied since 2019, because in the law on gender fertility, the definition of the third election cycle under which only elections for the Croatian Parliament are now under way. And if such a provision on this law remains that in the local elections next year, the obligation of at least 40% of the sub-represented sex in Croatian politics is women, it will not be mandatory. And that's an example of when we write laws and inconsistencies or doubts in it, we later have a problem. Therefore, according to the Government, and the position of the Committee on Law, this must only apply in Croatia since 2019. I heard that yesterday, the Committee on Legislatives discussed this in such a clear provision for more than an hour, that it became clear to them that it was in fact clear that it should not be interpreted or respected in local elections but it seems to me that they are on the verge of recommending that the law on gender fertility is changing and that the quota should be mandatory from 1.1.2014. We'll see, probably because of the European elections. In '15, great. This Regulation shall enter The data that citizens must provide when signing support and candidacy is required is the number of IDs and place of issue. Why not the OIB, namely the citizens when signing with them, do not have to have their ID card but know the OIB or have it written down. The difficult situation is that citizens who want to sign support for the candidacy if they do not have their ID card on them but, for example, a driver's license or another identification document that can determine the place of residence will not be able to because they do not know the number of IDs by heart. So if we were to facilitate the collection of signatures, then the number would replace the number personally with the OIB because we all swore it would be the only number of citizens in Croatia. Article 12, verification of the candidate's signature. I would like to remind you that for parliamentary elections, candidates should have had neither a statement from the notary nor an electoral commission on acceptance of the candidacy. For parliamentary elections, statements did not have to be certified. Why local election statements should verify, whether in the notary or in the commission. Article 38 tries very softly and weakly to establish the obligations of local media in monitoring local campaigns. I believe that this provision in Article 38 is insufficient, insufficiently clear and that we need to find a solution that election participants, regardless of whether or not they are party candidates, have an easier access to the media, because otherwise they will really be aware of all the payments, and then it extremely collects campaign costs and, of course, there are objections about the high amount of money being spent. I understand the intention of Article 41 and Article 42. I even support that the parties represented in the County Assembly exercise their right to electoral commissions and election committees in municipalities, cities where they have no councilors. But both DIP and I have tried to figure out the calculation that's being used and I have to admit I failed. Here I am, mathematically in the handicap. Paragraphs 8 and 53 of point 10 of Article 51 are likely to have been made by error, if it is not corrected. In point 8 of point 51, there is an obligation for the County Election Commission to publish results in polling stations, which is very important for the analysis of the election results. However, in Article 53 ten, when it comes to urban and municipal committees, it is mandatory for the results to be published by polling stations. So it would be extremely good if, as the County Election Commission publishes results by polling stations for county elections, such a commitment exists for municipal election committees. Municipal and city officials say they collect data by election committees for county elections and deliver it to the County Election Commission, but to publish, collect and publish for municipalities and cities by polling stations, I did not find such a provision. Article 48 clearly states that the control of campaign financing is run by the State Election Commission. I won't strangle you with the provisions of the law, I'll just repeat my assessment that next year for local elections under the letter of the Law on the financing of political activities and election promotions will have to be opened 8 and a half, about 8 and a half thousand special accounts. Each candidate and each election participant must submit 3 reports to the National Election Commission. This means that the State Election Commission will have to control about 25 and a half thousand reports. I understand the intention of control, but it seems to me that we went to another extreme, that one party with 300 lists, municipalities, cities and counties must open 300 jury accounts to finance the campaign. It just turns out to be funny and nakarad. The level of receiving donations and spending limits per unit may be managed within one account or at least to regional level County. Effect of the same 10% cost, resources... will banks for opening and keeping a jury account. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Termination by law. Penalty of unconditional imprisonment for more than six months, condition for termination of office. I will remind you that in Croatia we have a law under which a civil servant cannot be admitted to the state service, I quote: "persons cannot therefore be admitted to persons against whom criminal proceedings are being conducted or convicted of a criminal offence against life and the body, against freedom, human rights and citizens against the Republic of Croatia, against the values protected by international law, against sexual freedom and sexual law, against marriage, family and youth, against property, against the security of payment and business, against justice, against the credibility of the documents, against public order or against official duty." Therefore, those who are subject to proceedings, criminal proceedings or have already been convicted of these offences may not be civil servants either, but in Croatia, for the mayor of municipalities, mayors, mayors and members of the representative body, a person who has been convicted of these same crimes for up to 6 or more months and after the election takes office with the situation to get out of prison on the day of the election. Because he will take office on the second day after the State Election Commission determines the final election results and then he has the conditions for taking office. I think that these provisions of the laws governing the right to candidacy should set far stricter criteria precisely on running and obstacleing running under similar conditions as it is for admission to the state service, because I simply don't believe that more rigorous criteria must be made by civil servants, administrators from people who will manage budgets than, say, 7.8 billion kunas as it is in the city of Zagreb. And secondly, when it comes to an event that took place during the term of office, so when it stops by law enforcement, because this one is already in office and then this prison sentence, the unconditional prison for more than 6 months, we still have to make a difference, and here it foresees shorter penalties for acts of economic crime, corruption and abuse of authority and position. Article 94(4) of the draw if two or more candidates have the same number of votes, I know you'll tell me that some other states have been introduced into the electoral system by rollers or casinos, I'm against it. It is better to let both candidates go further as you have suggested a good solution if two or three more after the calculation... the candidates for the council have the same number of votes that then the number of members of the representative body increases and we let everything go further and further so be here. 69rd paragraph 3 of information on polling stations. Whether that poster is enough or we can find some solution for citizens to be more informed about where they vote. Article 88, I repeat the position of the municipal chiefs and mayors should not, they could be council members of the County Assembly. As we have the view that municipal commissioners, mayors and mayors could not be representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Articles 80 and 92 of the term of office and candidateship are bound, I repeat, for the sake of importance. Indeed, we are in a situation where we have more rigorous rules for employment in the state service than local officials, the right to run for office and the conditions for termination of office by law. We will be very pleased if Article 49. The civil servants' law is inscribed into this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20355	Thank you, too. The HDZ Club's position will be presented by respected representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20356	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, first I'll congratulate you on the timing, here after 9 hours of continuous debate on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government, it has already moved this way, counting on exhaustion and talking about the Law on Local Elections, but it also shows how important we all think that such a law is. I believe that the law deserved more public attention, I believe that it would be much better for all of us if it had been discussed, and then when the public could have followed it directly, I fear that in this hour after all these discussions and replicas, none of the citizens will hear what we have to say about anything, and at least about the Law on Local Elections. But we had to adapt to how the agenda is established so that I don't waste time on everyone who's had patience and welcome this I'm going to say a few things and quote something that seems important to me for the adoption of this law. By fraud, the smallest change in electoral legislation in a year ahead of the elections is exclusively electoral engineering and serves only to deceive voters and to give some political options a deserved advantage over the elections. That's not my point, that's the thought of today's Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, who said two years ago when we had a chance to talk about passing the Law on Election Units. Not only Mr Milanovic but also the president, Mr Josipovic, then representative Vesna Pusic, today's management minister Arsen Bauk, were full of criticism about the idea that within a year before the election, electoral legislation was changed. And something that we have already managed to discuss today, we do not question the constitutionality of this law. We do not doubt that the Constitutional Law for the Implementation of the Constitution spoke of other matters and other deadlines, not of direct application of these deadlines to this law. We are talking about what all who have criticised the amendments to electoral legislation in the year before the elections talked about good parliamentary practice by also calling for the opinions of the Venice Commission which, by the way, we have heard, there are more and more ways to talk about what can or cannot be changed in the electoral legislation. My question to the government is what has changed so significantly in your views, in your thinking of a democratic process, about the time in which electoral legislation is changing because our choices are local in 5 months. So, I'm sure by the time the second law reading goes through, I believe that you'll try to speed it up as fast as possible, so we'll have four months, let's say, until the local elections when we have this new law. This new law, of course, has its own good side. And I would like to commend the idea that elections for representative bodies and executive powers are put into one law, and I think it's a smart and good tendency of this law. It may have been possible to think about it, and there was talk about it, but it probably wasn't time for the electoral code to happen, so that all elections and all electoral actions would be in one law. It seems to me that some of these quoted and that was a proposal, but now it doesn't seem to matter to the government, and it doesn't matter to this law either. And so it seems to me that it is unnecessary to go into the details of this law at all, given the fact that on that day here I am not to be any prophet when he enters into force until the election will share us for, say, four months. But while I'm talking about this law, and here's my colleague Lesar was saying something, it seems important to me to mention things that burden the law, which speak much more than just technical changes to the law, which seemed not necessarily to be passed or could have been solved in another way. When you now take into account this law and the law on amendments and additions to the Law on Local Self-Government, then you will see that we are going to the upcoming local elections with a new idea, and this is the first time in Parliament since tomorrow by applying such rules other than the municipal chiefs, we are returning mayors and mayors as executive heads at the level of regional or regional self-government. So the legislator instead of perhaps reducing the possibility he is expanding the possibility of the mayors in Parliament. I'm going to state here the position of the HDZ Club and apologize to all my colleagues who are the executives at the local level. It is our opinion that unfortunately those who are the mayors, the mayors and now the mayors of this fact that also the parliamentary representatives were found not wanting to and in conflict of interest. They are in conflict of interest when they decide on laws that will be applied directly not only to their unit but also to them personally. It's about the Law of Payments in the local administration and self-government. And that is why we think that this law to spread such a circle and that de facto leads to it with the mayors I can find in Parliament is not a good solution. What we think is a bad solution, and I know that so far there has been a law but it seems to me that there has been an opportunity to change it now, it is incompatible with the duties listed by this law taxively by which there is always a danger that we should skip something, which is where the duties that are not compatible with the duties of members of the representative bodies of local and regional administrations and self-government and executive heads. Well, it's perfectly logical for some to be here, but for some, I think that since it's not some crucial thing in the law, at least until the second reading, if you insist on this law, it could change. I'll tell you about the illustration. It is incompatible to be a member of the representative body of the local self-government unit and, let's say, to be a director or vice-president of the university. To be honest with you when I read it, I'd write the opposite provision. I would ask the Rectors and the prophesyors to be members of the representative bodies of the local self-government units because I cannot imagine that this would in any way endanger the performance of one or other duties. Let us, in particular, say that the Rector of Zagreb University is a member of the Small Mlaka Municipal Council. But that's what I think we do over and over again, and over and over again, we overwrite some of the solutions that we seem to be bad. Also, this is what he said I would come for some of your experiences again because you often have your experience and needs to standardise everything, members of company management bodies owned by units of local administration or self-government in which the unit has a majority package of shares or shares and director of an institution or other non-profit legal person to which the unit is the founder. Is this why I can't be members of municipal and city councils? I'm not sure, and then I'm also the president and member of the company's management in majority state ownership. So these are some norms that I wanted more to illustrate that this collection of all duties that are in this electoral law on the one hand lists a whole series of duties that should not be incompatible with the duty of members of the municipal or city council or the county council, while at the same time it seems to me that it would be good, and that it would be worth it by other law, to resolve that what is important is the municipal chiefs, mayors, mayors and mayors, given the importance of these duties they conduct, given the amount of work they face every day, and in the previous law we talked about additional powers of obligations and responsibilities that do not belong to members of the Croatian Parliament, because it seems to me that if they do their work in the same way as voters expect them to choose to have no capacity at the same time, nor time, nor opportunities in the same quality manner as other. I may be wrong about that, but it seems to me that the duty of a parliamentary representative to this extent is serious and significant that it should be devoted to it as much as possible, not some parallel business that many can do at the same time. And that is why we plead that when this law comes to the opportunity to be passed before this House, it is entered into the law as something that can correct its text. However, I will remain saying the basic question, if we have accepted the fact that it is not good, that it is not a quality solution that, within a year until the elections are held, changes in electoral legislation, and Mr. Ministers' adoption of a new and united law this time is, by any logic, amended electoral legislation, perhaps a quality solution for this law to be discussed in order to see all the good or bad that it carries, and that its application is delayed until the next elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20357	Thank you, too. First we'll hear one replica, the esteemed representative Ivan Klarin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20358	Here I support Mr. Mlakar most of what you said, but it is not a great shame to change the legislation 5-6 months before the local elections. For me, if we're going back, the biggest damage happened two years ago, that is. In 2010, when your government unfortunately took a local self-government of nearly a billion kunas by changing the income tax rate. So that's the general damage the local self-government suffers. There's only so much, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20359	Mr. Arsen Bauk, the secretary of the board of directors has now called.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20360	I just want to say one sentence for the record. Therefore, since the position of the HDZ Club on the incompatibility of the duties of representatives and mayors, mayors and mayors, this law will not allow the mayors to be representatives of the Croatian Parliament because the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament in Article 9 is a prescribed non-compliance of the office of mayors and representatives and therefore will not be able to be representatives in the Croatian Parliament and this law does not introduce the mayors into the Croatian Parliament. That's all I wanted to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20361	We're continuing the club debate. In the name of the SDSS club, a respected representative of Mile Horvat will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20362	I thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I do remember in the last term that we had discussed and pollemised whether it was legal, whether it was useful, wise, opportunised to bring or change or to enter election legislation in the year before the election. However, if we have talked to each other so late today and hopefully have searched all aspects of the previous Law on Local Self-Government, I hope that some wise and good and useful new solution for this segment of society will come out of it. Then it's perfectly logical for me to impose some logical sequence to then pass this law which should somehow operate on all of our previous ideas from these past few hours of debate. Therefore, I agree that we could also discuss this fact, about a year before the election, but also if we have already entered into the job and the proposal that electoral legislation should be prepared, profiled from all of those negative heritagees or negative experiences from previous periods and before these elections there is some kind of refined, fine, clean text and model. Then we're about to do it, and now it's about time we did it now. For this reason I won't talk much because it's already quite late, etc., but respecting the fact that the promoter has made a really great effort to bring these two legislative proposals, I'm just going to try to analyze four, five articles to help him for reasons that we don't need to do it through the amendments tomorrow. Therefore, in Article 16, the proposal for candidate lists and candidates, we believe that a new item should be inserted after paragraph 1: voters can only be the signatories of one candidate list or candidate in the elections in the local self-government unit, i.e. in the elections in the regional (regional) self-government unit. If the voter signs several candidate lists or candidacys, his signature will be invalid, and the candidate list or candidacy will only be valid if it has the required number of voters' signatures without his signature. So that's kind of a technical question, but that technical question is a lack in this article and it can be about a big problem tomorrow. In Article 58, I took into account the suggestions of my fellow MP, Shoja, who is a longtime chief with great experience and has a lot of local elections and he told me so, says article 58 on election committees that election committees number the presidents, vice presidents and 8 members. So we think, and I agree with him, we think that in small units of local self-government, let's say some censorship of 5,000 residents or voters, as the ministry has already defined itself to be a smaller number of members, let's keep it as three members, because it's difficult in such small local self-government to provide so many people in so many polling stations. And besides, we have one special aspect, and that's money, so it costs it, and small local self-government costs it, and the next dimension of it is what he suggested, that's about why people argue with each other. There are big problems that we're going to put, or who we're not going to put on election committees to earn that kuna at the moment. It seems a minor thing to us, but I believe that a colleague has a fat reason to point out this possibility to me, so here I am conveying his suggestion in Article 58 to think about some kind of variation with a smaller censorship. In Article 76 which speaks about the way the election is done at the end of that article, we think it should be put, that a sentence should be added which says, so as to say: Members of the representative bodies shall be chosen by a proportionate electoral system in a way that makes up the entire area of the unit a single constituency. All voters who have a permanent residence in the area of that unit and who approach the vote on the basis of the candidate list shall select all members of the representative body of the unit. We say we should place a decimal and add except members of a representative body who are elected by members of a national minority whose representation should be ensured in the additional elections. So to make a distinction between one and the other choices. It's technically, but not even that technical question anymore. Article 105 states that the replacement of members of members of the national minority from the representative body is to be carried out. We think where it is said here that he can then be replaced by a representative body when his mandate or mandate ends will be determined by a deputy in accordance with the provisions of this law, and replaced by members of the representative body. We think that here we should further say that if it is a replacement of a member who is a representative of a national minority that must be replaced with the same representative of a national minority because it is often in practice that such one is replaced by a representative who is not a national minority, with a member who is not a national minority and then loses that quota in this representative body. So that's something that's been said from experience so far. And what's most important, and that's Article 111. Most importantly for us members of the national minorities who regulates the selection of deputy municipal chief, mayor, mayor of national minorities, and then we speak here, so in the first paragraph where these executive functions are said to be elected directly. We think it's good, we think it's good to have their deputies elected directly, to choose at the same time as the mayors, mayors, mayors. We believe that this will increase the credibility of the election, i.e. the election result, and the function of the deputies. We think that this is an economical, therefore economical, therefore an economic factor very important in all of this, that it will simplify it, that it will cheapen the elections, and that it will simply lose that vision of the double voting right that everyone has been calling for. Paragraph 3 speaks of the right to be elected, so it is said that the right to be elected has a voter who, on the day of entry into force of the decision to call the elections, has at least 6 months of registered permanent residence in the area of the unit for which the election is conducted. We think that, therefore, it's some sort of passive electoral right. It should be arranged in a way to determine the cumulatively two elements, firstly one general condition of six months permanent residence and the second is to define exclusively minority membership. If we have said this in Article 107 when we talk about repeated elections, it is said that the right to choose and be elected only have voters from the ranks of members of the national minorities by the additional elections do not see why this would not be defined in the regular elections. And Article 4 of the right to propose candidates for deputy municipal chief, mayor or mayor from the ranks of members of national minorities have political parties registered in the Republic of Croatia. We think, and I believe, I'm even convinced that the Proposer won't agree with that, but I'll say, we think that the right to propose must have parties registered as minority parties. So I believe that this is not an acceptable category at all, but that would then give complete credibility, that is, the importance and intention that was planned when elections were set for representatives of national minorities. Or I'll just pull a parallel with a debate over the jurisdiction of a minority deputy, chief deputy, mayor. So, if they have the right to propose it under this decision to propose all political parties registered in the Republic of Croatia, then I see no reason why the elected representative, i.e. the deputy mayor, mayor and mayor cannot fully carry the function of deputies as is possible for the other two deputy mayors, mayors and mayors. So we came a little bit in contradiction between these two solutions. All in all, that would be by the SDSS club. We will support the promoter in further efforts to through, until the second reading this legal text is profiled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20363	Thank you, too. We have one replica of Honorable representative Tanya Verbat.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20364	Comrade Horvat, you are aware that what you said is quite unacceptable. I understand from your party's point of view that it would be something to you that would probably be in favour of parties represented only by minorities, only by members of national minorities. But we can't agree on that, I believe I speak here and the SDP's opinion. Members of national minorities in the Republic of Croatia are full citizens of the Republic of Croatia. This would lead to one situation if they were not simply equal citizens of the Republic of Croatia. All parties participating in the political scene of the Republic of Croatia must have the right to choose and send their representatives to the elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20365	The replica matches the esteemed Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20366	So, my colleague, I have to tell you that I said what I said, I said from some experience. So, in previous elections, we had cases that the German parties had conditionally had their candidates and these candidates when, with the party's engineering of the party, they won those positions, they did not then fulfil the role of minority representatives in the sense that the legislator had imagined it because it had to behave within the party's frameworks that proposed it. He is, of course, a representative of the national minority, but he does not have that function and that freedom of work and representation of the national minority as the representative would have had, that he was elected, or that he was proposed not to be elected, so he was proposed by the minority party.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20367	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20368	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. As the minister himself sees, all of us together have won the benches, and I don't know if everyone, but also the comments and comments of the GONG on the draft Bill on Local Elections, so many MPs quoted them in their previous statements. It is true that the bill, namely that the results of the local elections so far, were very often submitted as I had already said in a replica of post-election engineering and during the term of office there were municipal, city, municipal councils then city councils and county councils changed. So the voter's will was changed, and actually the choices that were made and the basis of which the representative bodies were formed were, that will was played and it was forged. That would be one of the goals actually, and I would like to see this bill prevent it. However, this is still not really mentioned in this legislative proposal, nor is something particularly taken in this direction. When it comes to limiting the ability to run in the elections here, Mr. Bauk, I would ask you to tell me if there is a permanent residence that is a prerequisite for running on some local and regional self-government unit has an appropriate time limit? Is this a permanent place for me to move to Dubrovnik yesterday, the day after tomorrow, and I can go to Dubrovnik for a candidate? Or is there some sort of a period of stay in that permanent residence of half a year, a year or more? So I don't think it's defined. Either we'll let myself, I say tomorrow I move to Dubrovnik and the day after tomorrow are, or a month after that I'm going to the Dubrovnik mayor's election instead of let's say Dubravka Shuice, or I don't know who's already there, or Vlahusic pardon isn't Shuica, she was. Six months is a deadline? I think if it's under the law for six months, I don't know if it's exactly a deadline, a time period that is, but it's a good democracy, so I guess six months is enough for this. Furthermore, when it comes to electoral or pre-election silence, then it is said that it is clear that Saturday before the elections, usually Sunday's elections, that there is therefore a need for electoral silence, but the violation of electoral silence is particularly expressed in units in local communities during local elections. So I'm asking you, and I didn't find in this legislative proposal whether or not it can be democratically hindered by what is difficult to prevent, and these are internal social networks that work and on Saturdays clearly. No Electoral Commission can prevent Internet communication or the work of social networks or facebooks or any other, net.hr or I don't know who to activate for a particular person or for a particular party or I don't know what. Here, we can't do it, it seems to me a little indecisive. ... I don't know, but here's what might be good to talk about, because it's clear how here and it says that local officials, so the executive authority in the area of, say, Slavonski Brod, given the lack of money, the economic crisis, the economic crisis is usually ruled by a portal or portals in the area of the city. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Whether it's a boat or any other city. I'm talking to the government financially, she's funding it, and this portal, which is usually the title of a private title holder, is doing what's useful for the executive government until then, but not for any opposition or I don't know who. Now that we're going from article to article here's the disputed 88th incompatible duty right now. So he says the municipal chief, the mayor and the mayor and their deputies during their duties can't be. It is clear that it is not explicitly stated here by a parliamentary representative because it is regulated by the Law on Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, although it would not be bad for you to make such a statement here and say, and my God, why not in two legal acts be the same formulation. And I think of something else that has been forgotten, which is that at the end of this entire list, which is still on page 39 to add to the EU parliament, the EU itself prescribes that nothing can be done by the European Parliament in the country of origin or by being a member of the municipal council. Is that right, fellow Ingrid? ... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It is because of what they believe or are believed to be the involvement of the Europarliamentary, and I think it is the same thing that we will soon regulate the new Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament, what Mr. Cain said in one of them seems to me to be a replica to exactly what the citizens are calling us, and that is this picture here when there is 10 I am not going to say 10 to 15 in total and when they call us inactivity, inconsistency in the Croatian Parliament. But clearly, these people, some people who are municipal chiefs, mayors, or some other kind of behavior, have a duty or a job at work. If a parliamentary representative as well as a Europarliamentary were to be obliged and only have that job and that duty, I believe that our benches would be more filled and the engagement of parliamentary deputies would be greater, so I guess they'd get a nicer picture of the citizens watching here now on someone named MAX 2 TV I don't know, and I can be watching this transmission. My colleague Salapic left me with these remarks, and then when I'm going to skip a little bit like Lesar because it doesn't quite show that GONG has told me everything. So I don't see any reason for candidates so for candidates or candidates with everything that writes, name and last name, nationality, permanent residence, the date of birth is OIB and the number of IDs and the place where it is issued for the voter. Now it's one thing for candidates and another for voters. Either we use both for each other or for the OIB or ID number. Here I think. You can't. You'll explain why you can't. Furthermore, when it comes to the composition of the electoral committees, there is indeed a questionable increase in the number of members of the election boards, and then there are also talk of permanent and non-permanent members of the commission in which 2 plus the president and the vice president plus 4 permanent members and they must be as far as I have read and understood the lawyers. Now you tell me if we can find six lawyers in some community or city I don't know about permanent members of the election boards in my Gundics or I don't know about Klakara or Bebrnja, do I? I'm afraid not. Furthermore, those non-permanent members to whom three plus three belong, so from the so-called the ruling previous and three out of the opposition. When purchased as was done and done in all units of local and regional self-government, almost becoming a practice, you no longer know who the opposition is compared to the previous elections and who is not and who is ruling. So, for example. when I was in the Municipality of Sibinj, and the HDZB had one councilman who had crossed over from HDZ and entered HDZ couldn't find anything in common to say the words with the president of the electoral commission because he claimed that HDZ had the right of a member of the electoral board and not the HDSSB, although HDSSB had elected a mandate, and he later moved in. This should define whether it was the right of a member of the electoral board defined by the result of the previous elections or whether the situation was found at the end of the term and the start of the new elections. So I ask you to pay attention here because we are damaged in several places even because these rich HDZs bought our poor, thank God the situation in Slavonia is so that people are probably. Salapic came voluntarily without buying. So voluntary. He was there. I won't say how, he wasn't accepted properly. Now let's move on, that's... Furthermore, when it comes to the fact that the state rules here you prescribe how much each member of the electoral board will receive compensation or reward to say for their work on the electoral board, and this one for local elections, so I wonder if all units will be able to because they are not all the same assets of GDP and everything that goes with it. So I didn't find that there would be an unequal amount of compensation but it would be in the whole state, let's say 300 kuna to say, it was common. Will it be easy to pay off the city of Zagreb and that of my municipality Klakar, Bebrina and Gundinci? They won't, they won't care. It won't be the same. Keep going. He says this, Article 30 says that when someone gives up their candidacy and after the election commission has verified his candidacy, and he remembers a day later, I won't go to the elections, that the candidate has to report it within 48 hours, so after the candidacy has been accepted. I hereby declare that the list of those names of candidates for executive power shall be published 72 hours after the fortification. 'Cause if after 48 hours he's gonna give up his candidacy, then how's the list gonna be published? Correction no. These eight days before, where our former First Deputy Prime Minister was killed because he did not activate his mandate in the Assembly, which was extended to a six-month stay in order for personal reasons to avoid such a thing, I think it's okay. And prison for over six months and a restraining order is already a subject that was processed even though I had it. So all in all, I think that after this legislative proposal in the first reading, then the second reading to you as a minister and us as representatives follows what I said at the beginning, and the amendment of the law on election of representatives to the Croatian Parliament, and above all the reflection on the development of democratic processes in Croatia in connection with direct elections for both the representative bodies and the executive authority and from the municipality to the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20369	We have two reported replicas for this debate. First respected representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20370	Dear colleague, you spoke in your debate among other things about the ban on electoral promotion concerning new media, you mentioned social networks and portals. First of all, it's two very different media. News portals are actually classic electronic publications that go according to the Law on Electronic Media and apply to them as well as to all other electronic media. Social networks are something else. When you talk about some people on certain social networks sharing their statuses, talking to friends or escorts, it would mean banning people from meeting their friends in what they would call real life and drinking coffee and talking about choices that would be that day or the next day. So it really is a little bit and even bizarre. As far as the candidates themselves are concerned, the DIP before the last parliamentary elections has actually resolved the dilemma by issuing a directive that people who are candidates in the elections must not actually publish anything on social networks that does not prevent other citizens who are not candidates or candidates in elections to do as they would do in order to tell real life because the 21st century carries... life on social networks as real as the one in which I now say so. But what the real question is, can it make any sense for the promoters?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20371	The line corresponds to the respected Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20372	Great, I totally agree with you, especially with this last question. In fact, here's where the election in the United States went to a presidential place where there was no electoral silence at all. So as we close down, you said well because I didn't say that the social network is banned, but we're talking about this right now, the notion of electoral or pre-election silence, and we have all the possibilities of action. Well, I don't have to write on Facebook, so I'll have my 500 members write on it, and then the same devil. So it's really already absurd this notion of pre-election silence and I agree completely with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20373	Another replica, the esteemed Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20374	When you specifically apostrophe of this procedure in Article 13, actually the whole running procedure, so you mentioned the ban on running, I think you're on a good track, but you need to unite, so here you are, replicating maybe one suggestion for the Ministry anyway. This whole law applies to all adult citizens, perhaps rarely which law where almost all adult citizens are addressed, and this norm must be so precise, surgically precise that it does not need any special interpretation. However, the meaning of the law must be such that politics rises, that everything that is planned to remove the policy to run for the person who is accused is already in the stage, let alone being convicted. So, we can run for convicted person, but she'll stop, that's cases like that, let's give that person a run for citizens to vote for her, and then let's just remember he can't still take office. We will not play to the citizens, it should be prevented at the beginning, and I am well and on the trail of what you are saying, and also on the trail of what Mr. Shakespeare said on the Legislative Committee that these persons should, in that very sense, be thought about but also about legal persons who are accused and in this sense should be considered. But let's not play here with incompatible duties. These persons, the President of the Republic, judges, constitutional judges, all of them as candidates, and we know they won't be. For years, ministers from one political option have been running on a certain municipal list, holding lists, cheating voters, says vote for me and voters think he'll give up, and he doesn't think about it or her leaving the ministerial post. It is a conflict of interest that we must prevent at first and prevent, therefore, the incompatibility of duty and in running. They don't have those people to ask for or let them thank the other man. ... Go public notebook... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20375	No, we won't. Time's up. Replication response, respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20376	Thank you very much. I don't take this as a replica, but as a supplement and colleagues, Ingrid, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20377	I would like to inform you that in 19.25, it is time to report a ten-minute hearing, and now Minister Arsen Bauk has answered the word.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20378	I promised Mr. Grubisic I'd explain the OIB and I.D. So, when you go to collect your signatures, it's important that you be signed by voters from that place where you run for office, and that can be determined by an ID card. Imagine if you don't have a ID, you type in the OIB, and five signatures are out of the local self-government unit, and your list falls for it. So that's why your ID card to know who's signing and that's the one signing that you know that he lives there, that's the voter from that part. And as for running, I'd still be a little more liberal here. So the problem of the political scene is not that someone with such qualifications can run, but that one has a great chance of winning the election. And now it's questionable, so the mandates are basically not equal. So, someone who's a minister, if he's running for four years or a representative can only be a year on the job, and the other three are quite neatly performing that duty so that I wouldn't still be here at the moment, I wouldn't be so much changing election rules in the year of the election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20379	Replica. Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20380	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, if the voter has to show his identity card to prove his place of residence or residence, then the candidate also proves the place of residence, not the OIB. And for the candidates, you predicted OIB, and for the voters, I.D. Right?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20381	The time has come for us to hear the SDP's views, they will be transmitted by respected representative Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20382	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here were the remarks why we're passing the law now, the elections are May. So, six, seven months before the elections why we're making the new electoral legislation that regulates these elections. Why so late. And we, the truth God, could conduct the following local elections and by the existing old ones, so to speak, legislation, because we have laws that regulate it. We could absolutely do it. So it's not about any new laws that regulates anything that hasn't been regulated so far. Let's just go, the intensity and purpose of this law and this law that we discussed in the previous point is that all the perceived shortcomings, the disadvantages that we have seen in practice are not good to change. So this Law does, and there is a series of improvements and new solutions that have not been good in existing legal solutions or have not been resolved at all or have not been treated. And it is good that this Law on Local Self-Government finally has one law in one place that regulates all local elections and municipal and urban and county because these elections are held on the same day and by the same and logically that they are treated in the same way and even participants in the electoral processes are either passive or active more or less participate in one and the other and third and it is good to regulate it in one place by law. However, I don't think there should be a big party dispute about this law and the previous one, because here this law is neither SDP nor HDZ nor anyone else's, but it should be everyone's, because it's not just SDP or HDZ candidates in local elections, so now the law needs to be preferred by these or those. We have cases on the ground, so where almost all the parties represented in this House are present in municipal county or city councils and have more or less almost all their leaders. Therefore, the law should make sure that it is not especially for any party, and it is not simply to make elections to make the effects of these elections, the local elections as democratic and as efficient as possible. What this Law may not be enough, and on the other hand it should not be treated that is even lower than the local elections is local self-government. It is in one article here, because local self-government is important, local self-government elections are also important, and I think that this should be regulated by a special law and regulated by the whole issue of choice, so for local committees. Because as important to us here in the Parliament, what we are discussing and thinking, we believe that it is important for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to believe that people in every village, in every village, and what is important is what public lighting will look like, whether it will be asphalt or nogost in its place, and that is decided and discussed in local committees, and they are elected in other elections, not local elections. Therefore, the problem of local self - administration should be particularly regulated and given the meaning of what it really needs to be. On the trail of what I said at the beginning, that this law, therefore, is seeking a series, looking, seeing, looking for what the shortcomings have been so far, is looking for improvements. I'm going to list a few solutions that are really improvements. For example, the Institute of Peace of Councilors' terms for personal reasons. For the time being, it could, therefore, establish a stay of mandate for reasons of incompatible duties. But why can't someone for personal reasons leave a term of office for a certain period. Although well treated here is no shorter than 6 months so that someone could not, by chance, attend a session of the municipal or city or county council because he was prevented from asking for the session to have a replacement member, and then regained his term. So I think it's a good thing that this is the way to get rid of it and get rid of it this way. It is also good that it is extended conditionally to say the deadline when extraordinary elections will be held, that it is extended to 90 days because it is really often 60 days too short if it comes at the time of summer or if it comes at the time of the holidays of some etc. I think it is good that the law and regulation of what has not been regulated more precisely so far determines the day of entry into office of the newly elected, or the departure of those who have been so far because so far it has not really been regulated. There was no problem where the same chief or mayor is again, so it doesn't matter what day he gets on a new duty, until he's old, but where he's changed, it's important what day he changes, and it's never been regulated so far. Just like a series of other things weren't regulated. What's good, now I'm going to say something that may be paradoxical or absurd, what's good in this law is a good thing that he doesn't treat, and all of them here or many of them here have turned around to treat it right now, and it's about the incompatibility of performing a duty with a congregation duty. This law doesn't treat it at all. He doesn't say that mayors, mayors and mayors can be in the Parliament or that they can't. He just doesn't treat it. And it is good not to treat it because it should be treated by another law, the Law on the Selection of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. It would be absurd, however, for a law regulating local elections to determine who can be at a higher level at the state level. It's absurd of that. This law doesn't treat it at all, and that's exactly what it's set up. So, you can't say by this law that I can't be or can't be, but they're not being treated at all, and that's good. And the Law on selecting MPs in the Assembly should tell whether there can be people who are at lower levels, mayors, mayors and others whether they can be. It's a matter of the second law. When it comes to this incompatibility it has been and here the debate may be too tight or too wide in some elements. I don't see why anyone shouldn't, for example. could be a member of the Board of the Croatian Forests and Councilor in Jelenj. I see no reason or in Slavonia in Oprisavci, I see no reason why it would be incompatible to be a councilman there and to decide there about asphalt in its street and here to be a member of the Administration of the Croatian Forests. But, well, we can talk more about that. What I also think is well solved is that the whole chapter is dedicated to representatives of national minorities. That's good, and it's good to say from both aspects of savings and material resources and human resources and time that we don't have additional choices and that all through one unique election is solved. Otherwise, we in Croatia can certainly say with pride that in our Constitution and our legislation, we have a high standard of protection of the rights of national minorities, and this law confirms it, and I think that if there are any other improvements, it has come well, but in any case, I think that this law is also in line with those high standards that we have. And finally, the intensity of this law was that everything that practice has shown is bad to improve and change, to remove shortcomings, to be clearer and more precise in many things. I think this law is on that trail to offer these solutions and if there are any other good improvements to the second reading we have time, but basically the law is good and I think we'll have choices much more efficiently and more democratically than ever. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20383	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate of 10 minutes. The first to enter the debate was Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue on this agenda point. I invite Mr. Branko Vuksic to take his word for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20384	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues. We are not bipartisan, we are a tripartite Parliament at this time. They're representatives of the three parties. I'm sorry there are no more mayors in the Parliament, which some have already gone home, they probably went to do mayoral duties. I will still talk about, although I agree that in some sense this law does not speak about the compatibility of the duties of parliamentary representative, chief, mayor, but today we have started this topic, I have raised it in the debate on this law before and I consider Mr Jelusic had just said why not some member of the administration could be a member of the representative body in the municipality or county? I don't think there's a need to build up functions, that the legislation of Croatia needs to be aware that the laws allow as little accumulation of functions as possible. In my view, first of all, it is not effective, it is not polite to be completely demagogue at the same time in several functions, and especially in responsible functions. Yes Mayor, Mayor, Mayor or Mayor of the City of Zagreb is a function, unless they are supermen as I said before, which requires full-time, more than working hours. The duty of a parliamentary representative is certain if he does his job responsibly that he is insufficient for 7 days a week and 8 hours a day. And I think that actually if we allow the mayors, the mayors to continue to be members of the Croatian Parliament that we simply cheat on voters and that this is an agreement by the parties to satisfy the appetites of their members. Nothing else. I'm sure citizens don't benefit from that. That's probably already said a hundred times today in the Parliament, but there's another monster that needs to be reached, a disease that needs to be reached by a sick flossule, I've been chosen by the people, I have the right to do whatever I want. It's an example I watched for so long until Mrs. Kerum left, excuse me, Kerum Bencic, no one mentioned Mr. Kerum's name. Mr. Kerum has not been coming to work for days, weeks, neither to Parliament nor to work in the city of Split. And who can do what? No one. He should not do anything, for he is chosen by the people. Can you regulate that? Is that something you can get at? Let's think about it. Whether anyone can be elected and said he will be elected in 4 years, said Zagreb Mayor Milan Bandic. I've been elected by the citizens and I can do it. Do we need to check, every day be every official regardless of the level of political, every day should be checked? It seems that no, the elections seem to be the only criterion, it seems, given that we do not have a referendum that in free Croatia we have only had one referendum and this referendum on EU accession, which was not a special referendum. We had that referendum when we decided to disjoint then there was a referendum in Yugoslavia. Therefore, in Croatia we did not have a single referendum, the citizens did not even taste direct democracy in the way it is consumed in the EU countries in which we hope to enter next year. One of the biggest wound cancers is exactly what someone has said first of all is not a matter of function but a question of character but should also restrain these characters which makes many honorary mayors, mayors and mayors of the local sheriff's label neither guilty nor indebted, because there are local sheriffs, ruthlesss who do not respect their citizens, those who chose them or there is a law of the Republic of Croatia. so let us also consider the compatibility of the duty or allow the mayors and mayors of the city of Zagreb to be able to be a member of the Croatian Parliament if that is how the citizens of the Republic of Croatia decide or let it not allow the mayors or the mayors. Because I don't know who can explain it to me, I'd like the minister to explain why, let's say, the mayor of the city of Zagreb can't be in Parliament and the mayor can't be in Parliament either, and the mayor of Split can be in Parliament. Earlier, one of the colleagues also said the number of Split residents and the number of residents, say the Međimurje County, which has 120 thousand inhabitants, compare Split, compare their responsibility to the budget, and I think it is incomprehensible. I don't want any more since it's too late, that's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20385	Thank you very much. On your exhibit, we have a signed replica of the respected Damir Malacan.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20386	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, to this stinging of Mr. Vukusic, he's sorry that there are no more mayors, the Commissioner is now in the Assembly just to warn him of the fact that of the nine MPs who are sitting here right now, we are the four mayors and mayors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20387	Here's the answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20388	I'm sorry they don't do their job, so I said they probably went to do their job elsewhere. Secondly, Vuksic is not Vukusic, when you are already replicating.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20389	I apologize if I said Vukusic, of course Branko Vuksic. It is up to the individual debate that the distinguished representative Branko Hrg is.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20390	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen. In this small number, Mr. Minister with his associates, here's how Mr. Vuksic and I catch and hunt today. I have to really say here that it's not good to generalize and that it's not good to put local officials in some negative picture because realistically looking at local officials are people who are daily with citizens and who can't say three sentences, something nice that seems good to the press, they publish it and there's never again anyone can catch it. A local official when someone says he's with his voters tomorrow, they're taking him by the sleeve and asking him to do what he promised. That's the way to look at local officials because otherwise they'd go the wrong way. But as I said in that previous point a few things are also related to the changes of this law, since it is said here that we are on time with these changes, that we have a lot of time to solve all that we need to solve so that we can prepare very well for future local elections, and we need to prepare ourselves. Then here today I'd like to make some suggestions and suggestions that we take a little bit more seriously under this law and try to make a law that would restore a little citizens' faith in people who are involved in politics. Today, all of us dealing with politics are marked, marked, we have a negative perception of citizens, today it is in some way a certain shame in Croatia. And how could it not be, because today we are talking about the illogicalities that we have in our laws, so Mr. Lesar mentioned the Law on civil servants and the Law on civil servants and residents in local self-government, I will add here a law on basic education and education where it is also mentioned that a person in a school institution who is legally sentenced to prison punishment can not be admitted to work, regardless of whether parole or unconditional punishment is imposed. Now imagine an interesting situation when a city councilman comes to your school or perhaps the chief of staff is running for mayor, comes to school where he used to work, this is an example from my city, where he made some manipulation, a criminal act, sold school property, he was convicted of it even as mayor and was removed by the decision of the minister of administration and now he comes to school before his colleagues, in front of his teachers, teachers and children who are there and starts talking to them about some values in society. So can we expect these young people, these intellectuals, ordinary people who are not educated to trust politicians and that they will have a good picture of politicians? You see, it's just a little, little text in the law. I say I've been potentiated by some debates here today where things like this can be solved, where one more beautiful image can be returned, a picture of a clean face in politics, because we're simply going wrong in this way and we're never going to be in that light that many people should be in because we can't generalize all the people who do some work. Not all of them are equal and not all of them are doing the same things and not all of them are criminals. What's important to say here is also the thing that we can ask people who come to work in the city service to have a conviction about impunity, and in the case of mayoral candidacy, mayoral mayor, city, municipal, county council members, it doesn't need the same thing. Let's try to think about it a little bit and really look ourselves in the eye and say whether it's okay or not. I don't think so, and I agree with my colleagues who said that here and my colleagues today, and I think we could scratch it a little bit and return that little positive picture. But what I would say here in some of the articles' proposals, let's say in Article 11, it might be good to erase those lines as much as anyone should collect voter signatures and then put 5% for lists, so for individual functions, for mayors, mayors and mayors 10% of the total number of voters. In this way we have an honester relationship, not every unit of local self-government, regionally the same number of voters and residents. Let's put it nice to be a percentage, it's easy to calculate, the election commission will determine what that number is, everyone will be able to say and everyone will be able to fill it in the best way, the best faith. What's also very important, and what we're meeting with our citizens who are criticizing and saying why you have lists with people I'm not going to vote for, I want to vote on that list only for that and that man, I don't want to vote for this one forward or that one, I want to vote for the last vote. Let's just give people a little bit of a scratch here, so let's try to make some concrete moves and steps towards what our citizens are looking for, let's make an election law of open lists, and let's let the citizens choose on the open lists of whoever they want. Now, for example, in Chitluk, Herzegovina, last elections were passed by a man who was last on the list. He didn't want to go to the council at all, so he put himself there. Last man, citizens thought he was the one who could represent their interests. He didn't pass third on the list. If we want a more honest relationship and some things, then we have to go in that direction and think about it that way, that way we sort things out, that way we edit legislation and create a more honest picture so that citizens can really decide better and more. And one more thing, it's a very discreet and questionable election in the second round. They are very disputable and questionable because in the second round of practice, it is known that much fewer voters come out than in the first round, so it happens that someone who received 46.47% of the votes in the first round, in the second round, loses to someone who finally got 25% of the votes, eventually because the voter's response is less. So there are some things that might be thought about too. I'm going to give a very simple example here. BiH, we're not going to Europe now, we're going this other way, they have this system that works that way. So let's think about these things and see if it's a fairer model, let's just take it out a little bit. We say we have time, so let's take that time. I think that in these ways if we went a little bit more to do so we could do something a little bit more honest, so that it would be for the satisfaction of the citizens of Croatia, especially voters, and that ultimately it would reduce the cost of elections which is very important at this time of recession and crisis and reducing the budget of local self-government from day to day. And what's more important is what I said in the previous part. I think it would be necessary to add here to the law, too, that elections for local committees are held when elections are held for representative bodies, so that I don't even speak of the law as having to provide that there may be a referendum issue at a time when elections are held local or even national in the other part. Let's say the question is whether the Croats want the legalization of marijuana. Why not ask citizens such questions, why not allow people to decide on the same cost, without any additional costs, without any problems that should happen further. Here I think it's a few suggestions that would certainly please the citizens in at least one part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20391	Thank you very much. At this exhibition we have a replica of the distinguished representatives of Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20392	You spoke of what should be possible obstacles to running for individual functions in local elections. There is a law in Croatia called the Law on the Legal Consequences of Criminal Crimes and simply people who have committed some crimes or committed some criminal or criminal act simply cannot have consequences, which, by the law, cannot have... either. The example that you mentioned as regards the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, as well as some other laws refers to a very specific and law-specific and numbered criminal offence since it is about persons who work... So it is perfectly logical that persons who have committed crimes against them, for example, for crimes against family and youth, cannot and must not work in schools, and your example is to come from a politician and then tell children about this or that simply something that cannot happen because under that same law, every promotion, and especially political schools, is forbidden. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20393	Thank you very much. You called a little late. I need you to pick up the phone while the MP speaks. I'm sorry. We're continuing an individual debate. It is up to the honourable representative Josip Boric. He's gone. He's losing his right to discuss this matter. So the opportunity to speak will be given to the esteemed representative Joseph Kregar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20394	I thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two good news first for the minister and representatives of the ministry. If I'm not mistaken, I'll be the last speaker because there are no other reported ones. That's good news. And secondly, I don't think, I don't think I'm talking for six minutes, and I've already spent a lot. Unlike many who participate in this debate, I have one important handicap. I wrote about these questions a long time ago. Ninety-two, I wrote my first book on local self-government, and I wrote the laws. Well, if someone accidentally got their hands on it, then you could object to me changing my mind. But gentlemen, I haven't changed my mind, and you'll see what I've been suggesting for at least the last 15 years. In 2003, a group of six university professors explained and submitted the draft law on local self-government elections. That was Wednesday. It was supposed to go to the government on Thursday, and Mr. Racan warmly accepted it. But then, I won't mention the names, and there was a coalition partner who successfully mini-minded the initiative. Two main things I'm going to do here again because they're very important. The first thing was the fact that it changed and proposed it as a radical procedure in the electoral model. A solution was also proposed, and I signed it by which the elections for local self-government units should, in particular, take into account their size, be the elections in the so-called so-called elections. small election units, so direct elections, not party lists. It's something I think we should keep in mind today. I know how the speed of approach to elections and all other constitutional and political circumstances mean that such ideas rarely can actually succeed, but they must not be forgotten. And the other thing I'm going to point out was actually the fact that it's very difficult to find a good electoral model because of the huge differences that exist between local self-government units. 89.23% of local self-government units in the Republic of Croatia have less than 5,000 inhabitants. So, more than four-fifths. This is why another proposal that could actually be considered sets the difference between small municipalities and cities. There are also cities that have under 5,000 inhabitants, where the model could be based, based on one such approach to direct elections. But I think a better solution might be a mixed model as suggested. And I will mention here, there are studies by Mirjana Kasapović, Zakošek, Slaven Ravlic, who have been talking about it for years and after every election, local elections show very similar conclusions and require a change. A mixed model would mean that in larger units of local self-government in which there are more inhabitants, they would have combinations. I would advocate 60% of the voters, i.e. selected by a list or political parties there are more organised and active. There are several issues that have some content in the election promotion. In local, small units there cannot be won with abstract programs we will go to the European Union. Local affairs are being dealt with there, and local officials and congregations need to do so. And allow the third to finish and make my promise. Now it's started and we all seem to be getting along about that ban on cumulation is function, incompatibility is something that I think I almost would say a question of day. Well, that's the kind of atmosphere I feel not by dividing in a party sense, but simply for practical reasons we're finding out how wrong it is, even though the principle reasons here absolutely stand. Incompatibility should be implemented as soon as possible. In any case, that should not happen, and that is one of my regrets that I ask you to perhaps remember that we are postponing for an indefinite period of such a change. Those transitional and final provisions that are actually talking about that we will not be able to apply the law we are now discussing right now, or the one before. Perhaps you should consider the possibility of shortening those deadlines. I'm thanking you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20395	Thank you, too. Now I'm going to read the names that still applied for the hearing. Anna Lovrin, she's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Zlatko Komadina, he's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Domagoj Hajdukovic, he's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Zeljko Kolar, he's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Dinko Bosnjak, he's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Minister of Management Arsen Bauk finally called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20396	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It's been a long day, but I think it's been quite a good, contentable, efficient and I think that, in fact, I look forward to the debate in the second reading, but then we're going to have to make a concrete decision about some of these solutions that are being seen here from all sides. As for the Law on Local Elections when I speak to Professor Kregar, I've had far more creative ideas about the electoral system. Of some I gave up immediately, I did not dare say them, of some I gave up after an analysis of what I was doing in the course of the year but it is not too late to make one analysis after the local elections and see including what MP Hrg said that in the next local elections in 2017 we also choose local committees. One ticket more and more well. Now it's not possible in any way yet. As far as the electoral model is concerned, the mayor's choice of mayor remains this way. There can't be. It can be considered if it's one or two laps. If one circle is then, in some way, stimulates the coalition before, if there are two circles then access a slightly lighter coalition because there is always a repair, in a relatively small number of units of local self-government, the staged candidate has turned in the second round, but should leave that possibility. There are cases like this, I think Sisak and Vukovar are best known for this election. As far as the selection of representative bodies is concerned, there are more possibilities. Let's just say that for the county parliaments, the more appropriate system we now have for the Croatian Parliament is that we have more multi-mandatory electoral units, but within the year we didn't want to mess with it. Therefore, and then, in the context of several multi-mandatory electoral units, open lists would be taken into account. If there were an open list for example for the City of Zagreb Assembly then the ballot would have one ten pages because there would be 30 lists with 50 candidates, everyone must be on the list of 1500 candidates that is cca ten pages. Yeah, so I don't think that's really our goal. The second model is not necessarily a combined but a mixed system. Something similar to the German model, which is that one part of the MPs are elected in election units directly and that the lists go to compensatory mandates for example for smaller parties that have a number of votes, but nowhere enough to get the most in election units. That would be, in that case, we would have more elected representatives directly. So it's one of the possible models, but we can discuss it for the next local elections. We didn't want to change the election model in a year before the election because we know that it can come back when someone else decides. It's better this way. So I think it's part of political correctness. As regards the provisions on the incompatibility of this idea we have heard, we will consider, as regards parliamentary duties, when we discuss the Law on Elections in the Croatian Parliament. So I announced the start of a public debate in the second half of next year. Therefore, this law also requires a thorough and broad public debate. I won't get tired of explaining ideas, and of course the public debate serves to modify some ideas from the very beginning to the end. So we have two approaches. One is a democratic approach to give something to make people manifest, insult you, not criticize you, and then accept what's good. What's the second model is that someone takes it as a weakness. Here's how they don't know what they're going to do, they're proposing, so they're changing, and so on. I'm a supporter of this first model, and here I listened carefully except for short trips to breathe fresh air all the suggestions. I think we'll send even better laws to another reading. I believe and hope that it will be by the end of this session and that we will hold local elections in the broadest democratic standards. We've received an indication of the State Election Commission, and we've accepted a large number of their proposals. About these some, we disagree where what is a political decision is a political decision, and what facilitates the technical implementation of the elections, we will consider it one more time, and we are very likely to accept it. As far as the GONG proposal is concerned, we are working closely with them, taking part in our working groups, but after the working group the decision is taken by the Government and by the Croatian Parliament. So, no working groups. But we've spent a lot of time here, too, in each other's debates, in convictions. Something they managed to convince us of, something we managed to convince them, and this little thing that's left we're going to try to do until the second reading. Mr. Vice President, gentlemen, I would like to thank my fellow Members who have listened patiently all day long, and here I look forward to the debate in the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20397	Mr. Minister, thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. We will vote on these two legislative proposals when the conditions are met, and that will be tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20398	Proposal for a Law on Local Elections, First Reading, CZ No. 185. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. "The Proposal for a Law on Local Elections 2 is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed by the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Please state who's behind this conclusion? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you. I find that most of the vote is 91 for, 26 against and 5 abstentions, the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20399	We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. We're only going to discuss one more legal proposal. This is the 7th proposal of the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, first reading, P.Z. No. 183. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. It will be done by the Minister of Science, Education and Sports, Dr. dr.sc. Željko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20400	Thank you, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Honorable Representatives and Representatives. Here I thank all those who are in the assembly for the interest of this law which has exceptional meaning and does not really deserve this little attention, but since first reading is hopefully until the second reading and debate when we adopt the final proposal will be more present in the assembly than the law will get the attention of the media since it is a key reform instrument in the education policy led by the Croatian government. For the first time, for the development and reform of the education system, it is accessible to look at all educational levels as a whole, relying on the strategic priorities of the EU, but also the strategic priorities of Croatia and in partnership between different ministries. What is a Croatian qualification framework anyway? Why do we propose to pass this law? What do we want to accomplish and how? Some of the questions I will answer are, but really in the shortest form of not wanting to burden you more after this hard day, but calling for us to participate together until the second reading in discussions that will allow this law to receive due attention. What I would certainly like to express at the very beginning, since I think this is a unique example of the debate on a single law that the commission made yet to be established in April 2012 in which there were 28 representatives. Representatives of the ministry responsible for education, for work, for the economy, entrepreneurship, crafts, administration, external and European affairs, representatives of public institutions, education sector responsible for science and higher education, vocational education, adult education, education, mobility of the EU programme, and external evaluation of education, representatives of the National Council for Higher Education of the Conference, Council of Higher Education and Higher Schools, Croatian Student Assembly, Association of Croatian High School Directors, representatives of the Croatian Assembly, Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, Office for Associations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, representatives of professional chambers, employers and Croatian Employment Institute. Already, this fact itself tells us how many subjects were involved in the drafting of this legislative proposal, which only speaks of its quality. I must say that by joining the reform of the education system as a whole through the Croatian Qualification Framework, we will edit qualifications that are acquired in the Republic of Croatia in a way that enables us to pass both vertically and horizontally, with the possibility of moving from one educational path to another, and in a way that qualifications meet the necessary competences on the labour market and are understandable to employers in Croatia and Europe. I would remind you that the EU 2020 Strategy is aimed at smart and sustainable growth. The Republic of Croatia, as a member of the EU, practically accepts this key strategic commitment within a few months and directs its policies towards developing a competitive economy, respecting this key role in education. In this way, for the first time, we are making assumptions that clearly determine which interests, what skills and what competences are needed by the Croatian society for faster development. I must therefore point out that we want to show this proposal that we are building a knowledge-based society, so education must be built on the adoption of knowledge and understanding from which the following skills and abilities and ultimately values and attitudes are to be adopted. The Croatian Qualification Framework as proposed is an example of integrated policies in which all ministries responsible for education, development, science and the creation of labour markets in the Republic of Croatia participated. I must stress that at all levels of education, education programmes should be based on clear learning outcomes, which means the transition of the concept of what the teacher needs to pass on to what the student needs to know. This approach leaves certain freedom and creativity to educational institutions and teaching staff in the implementation of educational programmes, which acquire clearly prescribed standardized learning outcomes. Therefore, our key goal in Croatian education is to introduce a concept to learn how to learn and do so throughout life. The outcomes acquired in the educational process should be consistent with the needs of the labour market, the development of individuals and society as a whole, and the regulation of learning outcomes at all educational levels as a result of studies and research into labour market needs, as well as evaluations and agreements of experts with sectoral councils. In order to ensure the quality and transparency of the application of the Croatian Qualifications Framework, a register of the Croatian Qualifications Framework will also be established of the system of data management on learning outcome sets and programmes for the acquisition and evaluation of training sets, standards of qualifications and qualifications programmes and other data of interest with the aim of linking and coordinating them. The way in which registers are established also allows for the integration of education with the labour market, and through the register of standards of interest will be linked to the standards of qualifications through the sets of competences of learning outcomes. For each profession in the register, the corresponding competences will be indicated, and competences or learning outcomes associated with a specific qualification. In doing so, this qualification may include other competences that are not only related to one occupation, just as competences required for that particular profession can be found in several different qualifications. Therefore, I reiterate one of the key elements of the Croatian qualification framework, which is to bring education into line with labour market needs. So, enough education for employment institutions, finally with the Croatian qualification framework, we create the possibility of harmonising our education system with the needs of the labour market. I have to say that passing this law is actually going to be the easiest step. The Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework is imposed as a priority in the work not only of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports but also of the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Regional Development. What follows after the adoption of this law with the establishment of this register is certainly the choice of a national council for the development of human potential, which will be the central strategic body of the Republic of Croatia for the development of the Croatian qualification framework, which will monitor and evaluate the effects of the Croatian qualification framework as a whole and on certain elements thereof. There is the establishment of sectoral councils, which will be expert advisory bodies representing the professional level of the Croatian qualification framework, since among other things they also carry out the evaluation of proposals for learning outcomes, standards of occupation and qualifications standards. I could talk for hours more about HKO, but for the introduction, I think this is enough. I thank all those who have already contributed to the debate to make this law more quality. I also thank the committee that supported this law, and I expect that all proposals that come into the debate will allow our law to be even more quality and that in Croatia we really have an education system that creates the necessary human labour market for the Republic of Croatia so that Croatia also has smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and is a competitive member of the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20401	I thank the minister. I ask if the committee's rapporteurs will take the floor? Yeah. Here you go. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20402	So the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament at its session of 14th November this year considered the proposal of the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework as a parent working body. In the opening part of the proposal's representative, she pointed out that the proposed Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework introduces the concept of the Croatian qualification framework as a reform instrument governing the overall qualification system at all educational levels in the Republic of Croatia. In the debate, members of the board voted mostly in favour of the proposal. The opinion of most board members is that the adoption of this law, i.e. HKO, will contribute to the implementation of the full reform of the educational system of the Republic of Croatia through systematic and active inclusion of all stakeholders in the field of education and the labour market. And after the discussion of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament, the majority of votes accepted the proposal of the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework. All comments, proposals and opinions presented in the work of the Croatian Parliament and their working bodies and committees will be addressed to the applicant in order to draw up a final draft of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20403	I thank the respected Dunji Spoljar, chairman of the board. I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Željko Reiner, vice president at home. He's gone. The club's losing the right to discuss this. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20404	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, Madam Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. With particular joy and interest, in fact, on behalf of the SDP, I welcome the fact that we have a proposal for a law whose application will have lasting necessary and structural changes in the education system in the Republic of Croatia. HKO goes beyond or beyond the education system itself, will have significant consequences on both the labour market and its dynamics. In fact, by establishing a qualification framework, we want to link the previous, current and future results of learning and qualifications and to put them in mutual relations within the Republic of Croatia, but also the European qualification framework and the European educational space. It's a new system that may be difficult to understand but it's the simplest thing to explain in a way that we can imagine a qualification framework as a nearly 8 cabinet or in our case with 10 drawers and that each qualification and each learning outcome is placed in one of those 8 or 10 drawers. Why are we doing this and why does it matter? Before answering that question, a little introduction. Although it is clear to everyone that education is a value for itself and exists and as a public good, it is necessary, and that is one of the important, although not most important, I repeat certainly not the only function of the education system. It is therefore necessary that education prepares experts who will successfully meet the constantly changing economic challenges and a dynamic and wider labour market. This also means definitely breaking up with an opinion of education as one period of life that has its beginning and end. Education and learning becomes and is a lifelong process, a constant of human life. This means that, accordingly, education systems need to be adapted in a broader sense. For all of us in a united Europe, Europe has a united common labour market, the development of a national qualification framework is particularly important, and to enable the identification of our qualifications in other countries, which also enables employment in other countries with our diplomas and with our qualifications. The same applies, of course, to employment in the Republic of Croatia for persons with foreign qualifications. Therefore, the need for systematic evaluation of education in each country has been established, their comparison with education systems in other countries on the basis of a common reference European framework, in fact, the target of the framework. The European Qualifications Framework for Lifelong Learning aims to facilitate the comparison of transparent qualifications and qualification levels, enabling labour market mobility, the establishment of the concept of lifelong learning and quality assurance of education. The systematic objective of the European Qualifications Framework is to ensure that qualifications meet the personal, social and economic needs of each country individually, as well as the European Union as a whole. The ECO guarantees that behind each qualification a quality guaranteed and in a flexible way enables each individual and horizontal, vertical progress through a qualification scale. The core of the European Qualifications Framework consists of 8 common reference levels where knowledge, skills and competences are classified as learning outcomes. These 8 levels of the qualification framework generally cover all levels and types of education and learning and act as means of connecting, understanding and comparing qualifications within the European Union countries. In this respect, colleagues and colleagues of HKO represent an important insight into the improvement of the lifelong learning system that makes up the backbone of the knowledge and social inclusion society. It is based on the Croatian educational tradition, covering the current situation and the needs of the development of the economy, individuals and society as a whole. At the same time, it respects the specifics of the European Qualifications Framework, European guidelines and international regulations. Building a competitive European and thus Croatian economic space requires the mobility of competences, which includes the mobility of citizens and their recognition and use of them to the welfare of workers, employers and the entire community. HKO is an instrument that will make it easier to employ and develop properly. This is particularly important for societies where both economic, technological change and ageing have imposed lifelong learning as the life and social necessity of education and economic policy. HKO has the task of linking learning outcomes achieved in all educational institutions or in any other way and putting them in mutual relations in the Republic of Croatia and at international level. They set clear criteria for the quality of acquiring a set of competences that an education participant can expect to have after completing education for the qualification of a certain level and volume. HKO represents a unique system that allows learning to be achieved and to be compared to one another and has a simple basic structure and contains an overall and minimum number of basic elements. The availability of education systems for all individuals throughout life is also highlighted as one of the specific goals of HKO. HKO is designed and built to create a basis for building an acceptable, necessary and fair availability of the education system. What does all this mean, and how will all this be accomplished? First about setting up qualifications at levels. For each level of legislation, it is determined and prescribed how much total workload is required to obtain the qualification shown in points and at which level learning outcomes which are also classified according to the descriptions in the level should be achieved qualitatively. This will allow for accurate knowledge of the quality, scope and achievements of each qualification, at each level and we will no longer need to assume what competences this has, for example, auto mechanic or master of croatology. For each level, a minimum accession condition is also prescribed. This means simplified, that you can't enroll in college after primary school, but that you need to finish high school. In addition to full qualifications, it will be possible to recognise partial qualifications, which in practice means that, for example, graduates in the labour market do not recognise graduates as we do today, although they have gained much more competence than high school students, so persons who have completed only four, completed the fourth level of education, will be able to recognise a partial qualification not sixth or seventh level. HKO simply recognizes and values everything anyone knows and all the competences that an individual has. This principle is indirectly reflected in the recognition of informal or informational competences and evaluation of work experience. In fact, many developed countries have realised that for the construction of a knowledge and social inclusion society, all forms of acquiring competence are not exclusively formal forms. Each form has its own fundamental role and value. It is possible to identify and single out a whole set of competences that are fundamental to society and have more lasting values than others. For example, some others may belong to a set of competences that are subject to rapid changes and different needs of society and individuals. It is clearly justified to acquire basic and permanent competences until then well-known, to organise mostly well-organised formal form by acquiring competences, formal learning or education. These are examples of competences acquired in schools and universities. Such a system shall include specific institutions, therefore authorised, certain programmes approved including an approved system of evaluation and evaluation of acquired competences. Other competences an individual can acquire on different or less organised occasions. Some competences can be achieved through organised activities that do not complete the form of socio-accepted evaluation and evaluation. So, through informal learning, while some competences are even completely disorganized in daily activities, so informatively. It is important to distinguish formal learning from other forms of learning, which is formally approved and socially accepted evaluation, evaluation of acquired concrete competences of each individual. This process, as already pointed out, calls the acquired competences the outcomes of learning. I point out here that it is important that this bill is well-recognizable that informal learning does not need to be transformed into formal forms of learning in order to evaluate and acknowledge the acquired competences of an individual. If this is relevant for certain reasons to an individual, then the law provides for procedures and instruments to carry out the formal evaluation of informal and informational competences acquired and to make them recognised in a clearly regulated manner. Understandable demonstration of educational achievements is achieved on the basis of the construction of a clear and simple display of all the characteristics of qualifications, and HKO is the instrument that regulates it. Or in other words, HKO edits qualifications in a way that is at the heart of learning outcomes rather than learning outcomes, although it may seem different at first glance, almost terribly formalised HKO puts the final focus on content rather than the form of education. Third. The general objective of HKO is to ensure the integration and coordination of all parts of the qualification system, including the labour market. This shows sustainable employability as one of the specific objectives achieved directly from the general objective during the implementation of the HKO. How exactly is this achieved? For each profession, a standard of profession is defined, i.e. sets of necessary competences for the relevant profession. Following the evaluation of the relevant sectoral council, it shall enter the sub-registration of the standard of interest in the register of HKOs. Training outcomes, as well as authorised legal and natural persons for the award of certificates on acquired learning outcome sets are entered into the sub-registration sub-registration of learning sets also on the basis of the expert opinion of the relevant sectoral council, and standards of qualifications programmes and authorised legal persons for the award of certificates on acquired qualification are entered in the sub-registration of qualifications standards. So we have three sub-registries – sub-registration of study sets, sub-registration of standard of occupation and qualifications standards. The acquisition of individual qualifications may take place through several programmes. Therefore, autonomy and creativity of educational institutions are still respected, but all programmes must comply with the appropriate qualification standard. And quite practically, the application of this mechanism will ensure that an analysis of the demand is made before an educational offer is planned, and that legitimate objections will be avoided that, for example, people who do not know how to do the work for which education is necessary, as it will be necessary to agree on the standard of qualification and standard of interest, and this is one of the major importance of HKO. So far, or all of us in education could only guess, so in that speculation, perhaps we would guess which competences a student should have after the completion of an education programme so that he could function well on the labour market. The setting up of standards of interest and multi-sectoral cooperation in sectoral councils will no longer need to be guessed, but programmes for the acquisition of qualifications will be designed according to specific standards and qualifications and professions. And best of all, after the completion of the educational program, everyone will know exactly what the testimony, diploma, or certificate means and what competences a person has. The cooperation of all stakeholders through the National Council for Human Resources Development will be possible through sectoral planning of public education, employment and professional guidance policies. Finally, the Minister of Education will have concrete and measurable indicators for making more informed decisions on registration policies, registration quotas and the financing of individual qualifications from public sources. Promoting education in Croatia especially at the level of doctorate should also grow in Croatia's interest, and this will be feasible after the construction and proper implementation of HKO. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, this Law contains several important principles. First, knowledge is a cornerstone of competitiveness. Secondly, the concept of work for life is replaced by the concept of knowledge for work. And thirdly, he recognizes the impact of technology and globalisation. By applying this law, everyone will benefit. Croatian citizens who possess any qualifications will be easier to get a job or continue further education. Their qualifications will be recognised on the European labour market, and if they want to continue education, they will be recognised for formal, informal, informative, but with a strong quality assurance system. Employers, employers will get more comprehensible competences acquired and verified before obtaining qualifications and competences in line with labour market needs. It is useful for educational institutions at all levels to increase attractiveness through the verified and recognised quality of institutions and programmes, as well as a regulated system of education competent teachers and interrogators. And finally, on behalf of the SDP club, I want to say that, I guess you managed to understand that the SDP would really support this bill. This law is evaluated by one of the most important reform laws that will have far-reaching consequences and we want to strongly support all those who will work in law enforcement, but call for a political consensus on the adoption of this law because there is already an expert consensus on this because it is a project that is far beyond or through one political mandate or only one resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20405	Thank you, too. Representative Boro Grubisic will speak on behalf of the HDSSB club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20406	Thank you very much. Here is this important material and the proposal of the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, Mr. President, the respected minister with the co-worker, came in this late hours for debate. Unfortunately, it's not up to us Parliamentarians to decide, but I don't know who. I will come from the end, therefore, from this legislative proposal to talk about the Register of the Croatian Qualifications Framework or how they like to say it here popularly and English framework. So, the register consists of those three subregistries as my colleague said before me. Furthermore, the register is provided by the National Council for the Development of Human Potentials and by the Sectoral Councils. And now it is said to the National Council that the President and members of the National Council for their work have the right to compensation in accordance with the act that the Government of the Republic of Croatia determines the amount and manner of payment of fees for work in councils, councils, commissions, working groups and other similar bodies. This is again linked to the means, i.e. the evaluation and sources of resources necessary for the implementation of this law. So on page 13, we can read that the assessment of the total fiscal burden of implementation of this Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012 is 2 million and 355 thousand kuna, for 2013 amounts to about 3.5 million now not to be longer with reading these thousands and for 2014. 3 million and 775 grand. Nevertheless, additional resources to support the implementation of the Croatian Qualifications Framework are provided for under the operational programmes for the development of human potentials, therefore the IPA Fund. All together, when we add this together, it amounts to more than 10 million kuna, and the pre-accession IPA funds are not spoken of and the funds are not listed. Now, Mr. Minister said that this proposal of the Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework is actually needed because of the harmonisation, so it is this qualification structure with the needs of the labour market, which according to the number of unemployed and according to the state of society that is actually almost gone. Furthermore, it is also a matter of harmonising with the European Qualifications Framework. Which would seem to me to be another wind in the back of what I personally do not want, and that is further speeding up the process of leaving our young educated people towards EU countries. It's opening just the door to that. I do not want to say that we do not need to bring this qualification framework into line with the advanced EU countries, but it is clear that, and this legislative proposal will be adopted, given that the majority of parliaments and the government have proposed that I will say this wide open the door to the departure of our young people in a situation where exactly what I said to the labour market does not really work with us and it is very scarce for that labour market. Now I wanted to say something about the fact that certain laws and legal proposals mention and the possibility of employment, so we are going to change the population, change even qualifications in the Republic of Croatia, and so that a large number, and I say there are 10 thousand young people who leave Croatia regularly and continuously to work in the European countries, will continue to be replaced with the workforce and people who have some other qualifications and mainly with people from our neighbourhood who will be attractive, relatively attractive to work here. And certain jobs. So I wonder, here's the minister to explain, I'll try to figure out if, as those who come here will, since we will adopt and have our Croatian qualification framework that there will be a alignment with people who come from BiH, Serbia, Albania, I don't know Romania and so on. here in the Republic of Croatia when they most likely and as far as I'm concerned, they don't. Although here in one place it is written that therefore consideration of classifications, so on the page. 13, the Croatian Qualifications Framework has been developed with the aim of considering or grading the existing qualification system, including an ex-post description of previous qualifications and easier recognition of foreign qualifications. So I'm hoping that maybe in that part it's kind of this sentence and it's mentioned. This law is a legal proposal without a label E, so it is not a PZE that I would expect in view of such advanced and such a bombistic announcement that it is a alignment with the European qualification framework and the EU gains in this particular area of education and professional training, so I do not understand that there is no E name even though the basic concepts here are translated clearly into English, which is good all in all. Since we have inflation agencies, institutions, councils, the board doesn't even know what's not here, we're setting up another national council. We have these sectoral councils and everything else whose growth and commissions are scheduled for further withdrawal of funds, so there's no longer a name for the agency, and there's going to be a council, so let me say the regulation of the register which requires clear and money all together when we look at the aspect of what I've put forward, I agree that I need to say I'm not going to tell the nomenclature but the qualification framework, and that's how it could somehow be said, but I think it costs my brother a lot of money. It's really a lot. And since we also have a large number of employees in the ministries at the Ministry of Labour, and also in the ministry of Mr Jovanovic, so I don't know the establishment of these sectoral, national and other councils and commissions and all the expensive and money that has been overlooked for it, here I don't know where it goes since the ministry, as far as I know, at least from the papers, has broken through its limit that is foreseen in the budget of the Republic of Croatia. We'll still think about tomorrow's vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20407	Thank you, too. We have a single reply to this presentation by the respected representative Marija Lugaric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20408	Mr Grubisic was based on the initial thesis that these registers will be run by the National Council of Sectoral Councils, but I must inform you, however, it is simply the thesis that is wrong. Article 13(4) defines that the sub-registrations of these two... Standards and qualifications shall be managed by the ministries responsible for science, and this shall be managed by the ministry responsible for work under the register of occupation standards. [[The speaker doesn't understand because of the quick talk.]] That's more than half of your discussion falling into the water. So I hope you won't have a dilemma about voting on the draft law because all the arguments that you have actually opposed to this draft law in the basic story have failed, which is clearly not a sufficiently clearly written sentence of the sub-registration of the standard of interest is being drawn up and run by the ministry responsible for the work. I think that's clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20409	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20410	Here's a short word from my colleague, Lugaric, you said that as the sub-registration of the standard of occupation is written here, it is produced and run by the ministry responsible for the work. Then what does the National Council and the Sector Council do? I don't get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20411	We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Representative Dunja Špoljar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20412	Thank you, Vice President. Ministers with assistants, colleagues and fellow MPs. The coalition government inherited the Croatian land of knowledge, it inherited the results of the latest World Competitiveness List in the edition of the World Economic Forum where Croatia competes with an additional 141 countries, the least investment in education and only 14 observed countries are rated worse. According to EUROSTAT, Croatia's youth unemployment rate of almost 40%, which places Croatia 2nd in Europe. She inherited statistics according to which today, 98% of children participating in primary compulsory education are 61.5 to 65% in high school, 31 in high school, and 16.5% in young people up to 29 years have no qualifications or limited employment opportunities in less paid jobs, more frequent periods of unemployment, the development of socially unacceptable behaviour. I therefore welcome the HKO Reform Instrument, which regulates the entire qualification system at all educational levels in the Republic of Croatia. HKO offers changes in the education system primarily in the capacity-building function to increase employment, employability and ultimately the well-being of people. It proposes ways to expand education outside institutions and promote the chronological boundaries of its formal beginning and completion, offers an educational programme of lifelong education as an imperative, which is in line with the goals of the Government of the Republic of Croatia in terms of active promotion and promotion of lifelong learning on the principle of strengthening the role of key competences for lifelong learning that an individual is required to participate in the life of the community and serve as a basis for gaining competence throughout life. Lifelong learning refers to every learning activity throughout life to improve knowledge, skills and competences within the personal, civic, social or professional activities of the individual. It includes learning in all lifetimes from early youth to old age and in all forms in which formal, informal, informative. Learning is a continuous process in which the results and motivations of an individual for learning during a certain life period are conditional upon knowledge, habits and learning experiences acquired in a younger age. Lifelong learning aims at economic nature, achieving greater competitiveness and lasting employability, but the ultimate goal is the active role of individuals in society. These objectives are to promote social inclusion, develop active citizenship and develop individual potentials for individuals. Today's labour markets require new occupations and a constant change in skills, qualifications and experiences profiles. Skills shortages and their unadjustment particularly when it comes to information and communication technologies are often one of the reasons for unemployment in certain regions and industries among marginalised social groups. The Croatian Qualifications Framework determines that each study programme should be both qualitative and relevant, which means that it provides the necessary knowledge and skills that opens up opportunities for lifelong learning or for quality, but also for employment or relevance. The strategic basis for the establishment of HKO is in the European Parliament's recommendations on the establishment of a European qualification framework for lifelong learning. By accepting and implementing HKO, we will help our children, our citizens to learn their whole lives, to be taught what is really important because the learned are taught throughout the world, and the king is only in his kingdom a king. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20413	Thank you, too. Individual debate, Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20414	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. So I'm going to join my colleagues and colleagues who welcomed the passing of this law out of the pure example I'm about to give you. In the West, when you come to a job interview, no one asks you what you're up to, what you're formal, but they ask you what you can do. And that's something that we often do in the formal classification of competences and skills either neglect or simply the system is not agile enough to keep up with time and needs. In fact, we live in a society where market needs change most of all, I would dare say from day to day. So, if we want to plan it, I would say the professional staff we want to produce in the next 10 years, no one guarantees that the decision we're going to make today will be curient in 10 years, or that no one can tell us that the personnel we're producing today, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow or 10 years from now will be surplus, or that this occupation will no longer be necessary to say so, nor will the market look for it. I therefore believe that HKO is first of all an exceptional project, for the first time a project in Croatia where we can formally systematize, formally, informally, and I would dare say self-discipline because self-discipline in me is the same key only to development, but also to the competent development of individuals. It's precisely because of this question which is the most common issue in job interviews that you can do, the skills and competences themselves do not come from education alone, whether it's formal, informal, informative. They sometimes come from simple learning. So you have people who are educated here, for example, to be economists, but they've spent their whole lives doing, say, Internet design. Let's say they have 10 years of experience in Internet design. The question arises, therefore, whether these people, after 10 years of dealing with this profession, have been formally, informally, part-timely or otherwise, have certain competences to recognise certain knowledge and competences from that area. I think so. And this is extremely important because these people when applying to different competitions where certain formal knowledge is required, i.e. the formal knowledge certificate are essentially denied to those who may have some formal education which is, therefore, not experienced but purely theoretical. Education as such is life-long, so we've been educated our whole lives in a particular calling that we do, in a particular work that we do, in certain tasks that this job and profession impose on us. Therefore, it is extremely important to me that we also formally have some systems, systems that will make this knowledge, competences, skills acquired during and working experience, professional training, formal, informal learning, therefore which will evaluate this knowledge. There was also quite a confusion as to our informal, or informative education, so how to value such knowledge. Various courses, additional trainings, foreign language courses, etc. I dare say, though, that foreign languages may be the most advanced and have some internal classifications, such as knowledge of English or German, regulated certain institutions at the international level that they are dealing with, but not certain knowledge. And for this reason it is also very important that users of these courses are guaranteed a certain minimum of the quality of teaching, i.e. the knowledge to be passed on to them. So if you're taking some foreign language course, some practical work, it doesn't really matter now which category we're discussing, so everyone who attends that course within the Republic of Croatia must be guaranteed some minimum under which you don't go. Of course that minimum is prescribed, everything above is quite well. But there must therefore be a minimum and, accordingly, this course, or school, is worth whatever it is worth. It's worth formally, it's worth looking for a job, it's worth it when it's applied to some contest and stuff. Therefore, I HKO see first of all as a step forward in Croatian education, a step forward that has not been achieved so far, a step forward in which it has been discussed since 2005. So for seven years and more, we've been talking about it, and now we're finally taking some formal steps. I also allow that this law may have some gaps that we may be able to complete. I personally didn't detect them, but I allow them to have them, but this law goes into two readings. Until the second reading, I believe that there will be some solutions that may be controversial that can be corrected, but in principle, I think it's a good thing we even started talking about this. Because this is a trend that is present not only in the European Union but throughout the world. So, an education that is lifelong, which is not often related to formal education and which as such needs to be earned and its value. Therefore, my suggestion would only be in this legislative proposal to find a way to open the door for experience qualifications. So what formal form to implement there, i.e. how people who have perfected themselves outside their formal profession, who have been doing a certain job for many years, have been able to get some formal qualification based on their experience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20415	Thank you. And the last individual debate between the respected academics, Željko Reiner, vice president of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20416	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with his associates. So I think it is very good to pass this Law because we must be able to compare, recognise and recognise qualifications in the European area of education. Of course, it is important that this law is in line with the European Qualification Framework and the qualification framework of the European Higher Education Area. However, I have several objections. I'd like to say first of all that this comes as the last version of something, one process we've already heard started in 2005, actually intensely in 2007 started to work and several variations of text were made. This variant is simpler than some of the earlier versions. But one of the problems is that he is still quite difficult to understand without further explanations. I understand that he was made for experts, but the law should be such that he can be understandable without further explanation. Another important aspect is that this law is connected to a whole series of other laws, and unfortunately it is not in line with everyone and then its adoption in this form some other laws would necessarily have to be changed, or harmonised, and I don't see any kind of preamble analysis of this situation that doesn't really matter. I would also like to say that although the adoption of this Law is very important because it is actually a whole area of education from preschool to doctoral studies and includes, of course, all formal, informal, informative forms of learning. It's one big, actually reform process that happens with it, although it may not be clearly visible to everyone just because it may not be so clear to understand this law. But what's very important is I don't see how a transitional period is secured, a clearly long transition period that is necessary and without which it will simply all be a dead letter on paper. That's what I think you'd have to see in the final version anyway. What got into my eyes is the problem of the National Council which is now becoming very, very important. That's very big. It has 25 members. One of my deep convictions is that bodies that have so many members are unfortunately never operational, it's one of the practical problems, and this body will be very important again I stress. And with that logic, his composition is clear to you. All aspects of those that I say so were wanted to need these personnel produced to those who produce personnel to be involved in this process. However, it should then be worked out much more in detail. For example, it is proposed that there be three representatives of the union's multi-level representative associations, and they are not said to be elected. Three representatives of multi-level employers' representative associations, yet there are no criteria. There's no telling how they'll choose. One of the problems is that there are no national councils, although there are all possible representatives from adult education to high schools, crafts chamber, Chamber of Commerce, etc. In fact, there is no representative of either primary or secondary or vocational education inside. Well, now that everyone else is inside, then I guess they should be in it, too, because they must be a very important part of that process. One of the things I would still like to point out is the problem that is related to division. Once again, the logic of things is clear that the Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Labour are also involved. However, the fact is that I always have a great skepticism when there is something to be taken care of at the same time by the two ministries. I also said that on the board, no matter how much interaction between these ministries is needed when it is not known exactly that one ministry is doing it, but the two ministries are then one thinks it's doing it another, the other thinks it's doing it first and it might be a pretty problem. It is similar with the register, because the distribution of the register to subregistries can make it difficult to serve under the registers, to all those who will need it, and it is primarily those who are involved in the production of educational programmes. And that's why the register should be unique. Of course he must probably have sub-registries, but I believe he should be run by one ministry. In this case, I think the Ministry of Education and Science. It is also very important to point out that Article 10 of the National Council's competence and Article 12(2) is affected by certain competences on the issue of university autonomy, on the subject of registration policy and should be recast. Also, Article 13 provides for the creation of another information system for which it is uncertain whether it will be compatible with existing information systems, and of course it is always in our daily life that the problem is whether it will be delivered by the deadline, up to the prescribed deadline that is very short and clearly defined. Also, Article 14 describes the entry in the register as a very complicated process and should be made quite certain to simplify it or to describe it more clearly at least. Here's to not making everything too difficult with my discussion I think it's a good thing that it started working on it, but this version should be better, too, but I hope that the last version will be much better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20417	Thank you, too. After all, we have one replica, the distinguished representative Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20418	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, an esteemed colleague would be given a lot of weight to pollemize, but we've already done it on the board, so there's no point in repeating it. But about one thing, though. You said it was necessary to provide a long transitional period for the application of this law in order for everyone to be able to adapt. It is one of the legitimate concepts of how things can be done, but changes in the labour market, changes in technology, changes in education are simply too fast. While you come up with a reform, you secure a transitional period and when you start using it, everything you've designed becomes absolutely irrelevant and you have to actually change. The only solution for implementing quality changes especially in the education system is that everything is actually made so that it is constantly changing and that you have a secure flexible system that allows for continuous change. And that is one of the principles on which HKO is based, given that individual programmes are released from the register independently of the time course for which there is a need. Also, you said this law would need to cause it to be amended by some other laws that it was not elaborated. In fact, it is all elaborated in Article 20 because it writes exactly which articles the other laws cease to apply, which are abolished in order to avoid duplication of the body. It's simple, when it's done, it can be done, and when it doesn't, it just won't, but there's no help there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20419	Replication response, Vice President Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20420	Thank you very much. Dear MPs so I don't think they're things, so there's this law-making process, that's not when they want to, and when they won't, so now every version has to be that and final. It's not final, and I think it can and must be done because otherwise there wouldn't be such a process. However, when I said that you should actually provide more time for the implementation of certain things then you will believe me and you agree with me that exactly what I said is unfortunately not all precise, and when you have a law that is very general then opens up possibilities with various interpretations and that's what I think is not good and that's why I am with a few of these concrete due to the late hours especially the remarks that I think can be completed and I think that would then increase the quality of that law and he. Because the scale of things isn't really controversial. I don't think what I'm about to say in the back tables is likely to be controversial. And it was the biggest part of the job to do that and it was done. However, this second part that regulates certain things must certainly be done a little bit. Because it's too much left behind I'd say empty space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20421	Thank you, too. The final word will be taken by the Minister of Science, Education and Sports, respected Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20422	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank everyone in the debate who participated in the debate, Ms. Lugaric and Mr. Grubisic on behalf of the clubs, MPs Špoljar, Hajdukovic and Representative Reiner for their contribution to the debate. I always like it when he has different opinions because if he didn't have different opinions it would mean that someone doesn't actually think at all. Of course, with these different opinions, we can and we don't have to agree. Since Mr. Reiner wasn't at the beginning of my opening presentation, I'm going to repeat once again who was all involved in the drafting of this legislative proposal. Therefore, representatives of the Ministry of Education, Labour, Economy, entrepreneurship, crafts, administration, external European affairs, representatives of public institutions of the education sector responsible for science and higher education, vocational education, adult education, education and education of mobility of the EU programme and external evaluation of education, representatives of the National Council for Higher Education, the Rectoral Assembly, the Council of the Higher Educational Schools, the Croatian Student Assembly, associations of Croatian High School Directors, representatives of the Croatian Assembly, the HAZU, the Office for Associations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and representatives of the Chambers of Employers and the Croatian Employment Office. With this wide commission, 6 round tables were held on which the interested public participated, an Internet debate was held, and on one occasion I will actually hold a presentation on how this law was created because I think this is an example of how the laws are being prepared for this parliamentary debate. Of course, this is now the first reading with all the comments and suggestions that we will once again consider with the committee and ultimately propose to this House the most qualitative and best solution. Some dilemmas should certainly be said that the intended funds for the implementation of this law are indeed the means to be seen in a transparent and transparent way. They are in a reasonable amount and certainly necessary if we are to realise the European funds as well. Also, as far as Mr. Reiner's allegations of empty walking are concerned, I would disagree. So everything is clearly prescribed here and the transitional period of 2 years is really extremely long and allows for all the solutions that are needed and which are provided for in the transitional and final provisions in order for this law to meet its purpose in this period of time. And that is, above all, to enable the integration of the education system with the labour market and the integration of our qualification framework with the European qualification framework and the European space of higher education. I must once again say that without the cooperation of the Ministry of Education and Science to regulate the qualification framework and to link the levels of qualifications with the European Qualifications Framework and the qualification framework of the European Higher Education Area, without first of all taking into account the quality assurance system, the Ministry of Labour that will develop a system of continuous gathering of information on the current future labour market needs of the necessary competences and the Ministry of Regional Development, which will provide guidelines for the development of regional labour markets. It cannot be said either about the development of human potentials or the development of the education system or the development of the labour market in the Republic of Croatia. I therefore believe that the legislative proposal before you is one of the key reform documents not only for the education system in the Republic of Croatia but also for the Croatian educational market and the labour market that will allow us to be competitive in the EU. And I am not worried that part of our citizens will have the opportunity to go to parts of the EU and get a job there but to get a job according to their qualifications, not just to do something to get a job. Once again, I thank all those who have contributed to this debate and very soon we will come here with a final text in which we will install everything we believe will contribute to the quality of this legislative proposal and I hope that we will adopt the law in this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20423	Thank you, Minister. And final replica, Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20424	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, it is true that you have made quite a list of who was involved in this, but then it should be said that, for example, the representative of the rector's assembly was concerned with the matters of jurisdiction of certain provisions concerning university autonomy and the question of registration criteria had separate opinions on this. That should also be mentioned. It's true that everyone... some of them had separate opinions. What's important is, let's say, one of the things that's missing is about learning outcomes. Who's gonna measure them? What institutions are these? What companies need that? And one of the very important things that I think is a principle issue that isn't just about this bill, I think we all need to take a look at it, that someone's going to say that a certain kind of expert should, so let's just say someone from the economy who's there interacting with the ministry, so they're going to say that they need some kind of expert, which unfortunately won't solve the problem. The problem at this time consists of an economic situation, and I'm afraid that it will be long enough in the future, and then the best that we will produce will actually go abroad and, unfortunately, we will be in line with this with Europe, they will leave Croatia and we will not be able to keep you the best. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20425	The reply to the replica of Minister Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20426	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I don't want to be able to extend this debate any longer, I just have to say, Mr. Rainer, that all the thoughts that were given in front of the rector's choir were actually in line and that most of the remarks were accepted. However, I, as Minister of Science and Education and Sports, must say, when it comes to university autonomy, sometimes it is too broadly understood, that under autonomy it means that the ministry gives money and that it asks no questions afterwards. When it comes to the labour market, what we as a ministry insist on and we will insist on, therefore, when it comes to the registration quotas that we will clearly say which are the registration quotas that will be financed from the ministry based on an analysis of the need for the labour market, while providing opportunities to the university, that if it enrolls some other directions that it goes from some other funding than from the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, because we have no intention of funding the education of people that it knows at the beginning will end up at the Employment Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20427	I thank you all for your participation, and I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And now something about these conditions. In accordance with the agreement of the clubs, the conditions will be met tomorrow at 11.00 p.m., we only have a vote. Thank you very much. Good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-15-0.u20428	Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework, first reading, PZ No. 183. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1."The Proposal for a Law on the Croatian Qualifications Framework 2 is hereby adopted. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed by the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Please state who is the conclusion of this proposal? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you. I find that the majority of the votes are 91 votes for and 31 votes are abstentions of the proposed conclusion. We thus exhausted the vote on the debated items of the agenda. We begin on Tuesday next Tuesday 20.11.2012 with the beginning at 9.30 with the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, first reading, PZ No. 91 and Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Penal Code, First Reading, PZ No. 182. I suggest we unite that discussion. Can we accept that now that we have the quorum? There's no objection. A united debate on two draft laws. Thank you very much. Have a nice weekend. I'll see you. My colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Croatian Parliament, we will move first to debate and vote on showing confidence to individual members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I suggest we bring together the debate on the points - a proposal to show the trust of Prof. Dr.sc. Vesni Pusic, Minister of Foreign and European Affairs for the exercise of office of First Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, - Proposed to show confidence in Ivan Vrdoljak for the performance of his duties as Minister of Economy, - Proposed to show confidence in Anki Mrak-Taritash for the performance of his duties as Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning, Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Honored Zoran Milanovic submitted a proposal to show confidence to individual members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I ask the Prime Minister of the Honorable Zoran Milanovic to take his word. Here you go, Prime Minister.
