ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8634	Honorable MPs, respected MPs, we can start working. According to the established agenda, it is now time to submit a report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2011 on the basis of Article 8. The law of the Attorney General. You received the material by mail. The government delivered its opinion. The report was discussed by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Labour and the Social Partnership, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and the Water Economy. You received reports from those working bodies at the session. Does the applicant wish to further explain the proposal? Dear Jurica Malcic, Attorney General. Here's your esteemed Attorney General.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8635	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. This is the first report, a regular annual report on the work of the Ombudsman in this new term of the Croatian Parliament. At the same time, it is also the latest report in this mandate of the Ombudsman, as both the Ombudsman and the deputies cease their term of office at the end of November this year. I also hope that this is the last report to be filed under the old Law on the Ombudsman of the People's Republic of 1992, which is still in force even though the Law on the Ombudsman was to be brought into line with the Constitution in April last year. However, as you know, the law was passed in October, and in February of this year, the Constitutional Court ruled because of formal unconstitutionality that the law could not enter into force when it was due to 1.7 this year, so that it would soon be in the process before this Assembly of the adoption of the Law on the Ombudsman. I hope that it will be in a somewhat altered form than it was voted in October last year and that, in line with the commitments made by Croatia and in negotiations with the EU, it will mean strengthening this institution, not weakening it. Therefore, the report is in line with the delirious and powers established by that old law, prepared according to the standard methodology which has already been in place for the eighth year in which we submit the report to the Assembly. It shall contain statistics and data on the work under complaints indicating some trends and trends in relation to the previous year and the previous year, and shall then contain an indication of the work by complaints and the occurrences of endangerment and violation of the rights of citizens in certain administrative areas with characteristic examples of the cases from which it is best seen and how the state bodies act and how the Ombudsman is acting in relation to these complaints. Finally, the report as usual contains assessments, proposals and recommendations on problems in the functioning of the administration and the judiciary at all and on legal and social security. Just two notes before I go over the short description of the contents. As I pointed out, this is the first report and, therefore, with some new ones, we have pointed out again and years ago, and even more times, the evaluations and recommendations we consider to be still current and we believe that their place is to be said in this new assembly. We consider them current and valuable, so that any similarity to previous reports is not random at all. The report does not contain, as it did last year, specific issues of the position and protection of minorities or persons protected by the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, since this year I believe for a month and a half, a month will be before the new Parliament and a special report on the occurrences of discrimination. These are two necessary notes. Very short on content, since the report is extensive and, of course, should not be repeated and persuaded. You saw that it was 1900 complaints, these cases were open cases of almost 400 to the judiciary, mostly courts. Although the largest part of the report is, and even from 130 pages, almost only 5 are dedicated to the judiciary, everything else is a factical administration, yet the most attention and media is always causing that part, and this year it has been repeated, so it is obvious that one of the biggest problems that many citizens still face is the judiciary. I will mention again that the attorney general under the old law still does not have the authority to treat the courts directly and even when it comes to the length of proceedings or to some obvious abuse of power. In the new law, at least so far it's in the draft, so there's going to be something changing. As of next year, the Ombudsman will have certain powers in relation to the judicial administration. The second continues to decrease the number of cases related to the consequences of the war and the collapse of the former state. You who have been in Parliament for a long time know that some years ago there were 70%, then 50, then last year 20, and this year 10% of such cases. These are mainly housing reconstruction items, pensions according to state contracts, and then some status issues of the conqualification, etc. Obviously, however, the end comes, but 10% of the total number of cases in about 200 cases is still a particular problem since this is clearly about cases that are 20, 15 and at least 10 years old and it is really time to close that chapter. Something more will be in the report on the occurrences of discrimination. And in short, what you can also notice is that the trend is to reduce the share of those complaints that we consider to be established and that's good. But there's still too many, about 26%. Again, I note that there were 50 and 50 years ago and more. This, of course, is attributed to the improvement of work in a certain way and the fact that in some areas there are no longer so many complaints about the length of proceedings. This number is still far greater than in the countries when we look at, in other ombudsmen, where management works better, faster, more up-to-date, courts, etc., so we think that it is still too large, and it is mostly still about longevity, therefore, because of the lack of body and the response of the Ombudsman. What can also be said as a trend, is that the economic and social situation, of course, also leads to an increased number of complaints related to these conditions, hence the social situation, hence labour relations, and in particular to the fact that there has been an increase in the number of complaints relating to the performance, which is, of course, the consequence of this situation, but as a consequence of the fact that the law on the collection of cash claims came into force last year, was carried out in cash claims. The rest moves within the usual frameworks and the data is to increase the number of complaints against public service providers. I'm going to say something about this later, and I think that one of the reasons is that some of the provisions of the new law on administrative procedure that has already been in effect for over two and a half years don't work and people don't know a lot of the situations to address for the protection of their rights. As far as certain areas are concerned, we took a special look at where some recommendations were possible. I'm just gonna list a couple that I think are important. One of these recommendations for harmonisation of regulations, harmonisation of rules governing issues of housing, therefore also in areas of special state care outside that area so that all applicants have equal legal protection and legal remedies, and also in order to address the issue of compensation to temporary users who have invested funds in the owners' facilities so that property owners who are often unable to take over, given that court rulings are obliged to compensate for what is the provisional user. These items are not so much anymore, but they are difficult and they are the subjects of debate in European bodies so that I think this should come to an end quickly. Also, a good part of the report and the recommendation refers to the provision of the necessary standards in accordance with the conventions, as well as our regulations, living conditions, health care and legal protection of persons deprived of liberty. The Council for the Protection of Citizens is against possible abuse of police powers and illegal or irregular work by police officers, which is also briefly processed in the report. Then it is a matter of protecting recommendations for the protection of citizens whose rights are injured by illegal construction. I will not particularly explain this, however, citizens do not have almost any legal protection, and especially because even now the new ZUP institutes are not yet being applied so that we have the largest number of complaints precisely that citizens do not have legal means in fact since inspections are carried out under official duty. They do not recognise the right of the party but must submit specific requests. That's one question I believe the new ministry will solve. Then we repeat that I do not know which time the issue of final settlement of the legal relationship between protected tenants in the apartments of private owners and owners in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision and the report of the Constitutional Court. This is a question that has been raised for years and owners due to inadequate rights, unsuitable rents, etc., but of course by tenants who have been exposed to justice several times and where the poorest who do not have good legal assistance are not also protected. It is indeed high time that after 13 years and following a request from the Constitutional Court to put this issue on the agenda of this Assembly. The following is a recommendation for the urgent addition of the Law on the Protection of Patients' Rights to provisions on an effective remedy, especially after the Constitutional Court’s decision to take such a position. It is then recommended to coordinate the conduct of the Ministry of the Interior with decisions and practices of the Constitutional and Administrative Court in matters of citizenship, residence and other status issues of foreigners, to improve the situation of homeless people and social housing systems and to support elderly people without pension, to speed up the process of deinstitutionalisation of mentally ill persons and for reforming custody institutes, but also to practice a very frequent complete lack of business ability. One of the recommendations is based on a number of complaints and letters from student organisations to systematically edit study and student participation costs in these costs and ultimately, for a hasty amendment of two laws. One law on access to information would allow the second-degree authority to carry out a test of public interest and proportionality, as well as control of the justification for declaring the confidentiality of information, so that the harmonisation of that law and the Data Securitisation Act would be possible. Finally, but perhaps most importantly, to amend the system of free legal aid which has proved to be completely ineffective and which, following the Constitutional Court's decision, is even worsened precisely because, in some ways, the issue of primary legal assistance provided by both associations and legal clinics remains restrictive. We think that the primary legal aid part should be changed urgently given that it would not only be for the protection of citizens' rights, many of which cannot and in the most difficult cases exercise the right to legal aid but also because of the efficiency of the system, legal order at all, etc. Legal counselling is just as important as representation in court. So, secondary legal aid. Now I am going to the final part of the report which contains some assessments of the weaknesses and shortcomings in the functioning of the administration and the judiciary as a whole, as well as the causes and consequences of such a situation on legal and social security and the state of human rights. In the last term of the Croatian Parliament, that part of the report sparked some recommendations and disputes so that the report was not accepted in the Assembly for three years, it was taken note and some criticisms were raised on the reports. Since then, the ruling majority have been challenged not only critical assessments and their content but also the right of the occupier to make such assessments. I hope such recommendations are behind us, especially after the 2010 Constitution has changed, which has defined an institution with a broader mandate in the field of human rights and as an institution and for the promotion and protection of human rights. So I believe that it will manifest itself through the new law and that such a struggle will no longer be. This year, we warn in that section that the reform of the administration is still at the very beginning and that some key objectives are not being achieved. This primarily refers to the need for depoliticalisation and professionalisation of the state administration, and in particular the management layer of civil servants in the public administration. Today, I hope no one needs to explain in particular the devastating consequences of long-term politicisation and political staffing at all levels of public administration. In addition to professional devastation and the decline in the quality of the work of the administration, politicism naturally favours arbitration, clientelism and corruption. The politicised administration is increasingly acting as a government over citizens rather than as a public service, a public service. It's logical and legally the worst they've ever been through. "little people" with no influence, no power, but unfortunately money. The consequence of such a administration is the fact that the new Institute of the Reform Law on General Administrative Procedure is almost not applicable, although the law itself has been in force for more than two, now for almost two and a half years. By introducing new institutes and mechanisms, the law should modernise and improve the resolution of the administrative process, enable faster and easier exercise of citizens' rights and ensure better protection of their rights in relation to all practices, but also the failure of administrative and other public-legal bodies and even what is particularly important to the public service provider. The law, together with the new Law on Administrative Disputes, should indeed have already shown results in greater protection of citizens compared to all those bodies and institutions. As far as the situation in the judiciary is concerned, I have pointed out that we cannot treat the courts directly, we are acting in a way to give these assessments and to act indirectly through the Ministry of Justice who performs the affairs of the judicial administration. The assessment is, I have noted that about 400, about 21% of all complaints refer to the judiciary of the total number of complaints, although I have been stressed for years we have been warning citizens that we are not in charge and that we can intervene in this regard. But besides those 400, most citizens who address us like this, so almost half of the people who speak to us at all, speak to us about the judiciary. The situation isn't good for us yet. Status quo can't be an option although in the EU negotiations process, although normative organisations and material assumptions are created some key problems, which is an up-to-date nature, means the long-term nature of procedures, especially here, should be mentioned civil matters, along with performances and administrative disputes, are far from good. The latest figures for 2010 and 2011 say that all those measures that have been taken and which we have already talked about have been somewhat exhausted and that the problem is hard-core and that it will take years not to resolve it but to ease it. Therefore, they are concerned that by closing Chapter 23, the main business has been completed. On the contrary, improving the situation in the judiciary must remain one of the social priorities not only because of monitoring, although it should not be ignored, but primarily because of citizens, the rule of law and the legal certainty that is also necessary for the functioning of the economy. Therefore, measures must be comprehensive and simultaneous because the causes are also numerous. There are simplified assessments that there are also many in the media that are the cause and that all guilt in courts and judges, although, of course, it should not be ignored that the judicial system still suffers from the consequences of the time when judicial staffing was under inappropriate influence not only by politics but also by stakeholders. Therefore, there is a need to further improve the legislative frameworks in all directions, but I mention this for the second or third time, redefine the relationship between the judicial clean system itself, which includes both DSV and the Ministry of Justice. We consider it important to strengthen the Supreme Court's Supreme Court's Supreme Court's Supreme Court's summit and logistics, both materially and humanly. It is also necessary that what has not been among the priorities and agenda so far, be reconsidered, in my opinion, and the position, role and functioning of other institutions, which depend on and the functioning of the courts. There I would also mention the Constitutional Court, I would mention the attorney's office, the legal aid system that I have already highlighted and legal education. These are all institutions that depend significantly on the functioning of the judiciary. The improvement of the work of administrative authorities and the judiciary is essential for the achievement and protection of the rights of all citizens, for the general state of legal certainty, for restoring confidence in state institutions, as well as the condition for the success of all reforms and measures for economic recovery. Trust in the institutions has been seriously shaken, as have numerous protest actions, civil disobedience and self-help. The multi-annual crisis has deepened and such major social differences have arisen at the time of privatisation. Poverty is a reality for an increasing number of citizens. In addition to social cases and unemployed threats and pensioners as well as employees whose incomes lag behind the cost of living, which is witnessed by a dramatic increase in the number of performances. In complaints to the Ombudsman, citizens point to threats, violations of social rights but also to dissatisfaction with the work of the administration and courts before which they claim the poor property situation is not always equal and do not have an equal chance. They feel that the state bodies do not protect them enough and that they are not helping them, and that they often do not need legal assistance. They complain that because of lack of awareness and lack of communication, they feel unresponsive to the performances as citizens of the second order. Of course, all this indicates that, with economic, narrow economic measures, equal attention should be paid to the reform of administration and justice, i.e. the rule of law at all, is, of course, not even economic measures can be successful without trust in the institutions, without the necessary social cohesion, and which, of course, affects the cancer of social sustainability which at this point is a difficult economic situation to take into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8636	Thank you, Your Honor, Attorney General. And do the government's representatives want to further explain the government's opinion? No, I don't. Thank you very much, I also welcome Sandra Artuković Kunšt and Janko Mrak Karitas representatives of the government and associates, assistants of the Police Attorney. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies, the board of the Croatian Parliament want to take the floor? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. We're going to discuss clubs. Word rights have been registered by the respected representative Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić on behalf of the SDP's Club of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8637	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Pugid's Attorney-General with his associates, government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. Before us is the 2011 report by the Ombudsman, the report is based on the section set out in the 1992 Law on the Ombudsman. The June 2010 amendment of the Constitution has significantly changed and strengthened the powers of the Advocate General. For the purpose of harmonising Croatian legislation with European standards, an obligation to strengthen the role of the Ombudsman was accepted, so it was passed by the new Law on the Ombudsman in November 2011, and as we heard from the Advocate General and, as we know, the Constitutional Court in February 2012 found that the law could not enter into force because its adoption did not allow the number of votes. It is therefore necessary to access the new legal text as soon as possible, since the Government of the Republic of Croatia has already ordered the competent authorities to take appropriate measures in the context of their work. The SDP Club will accept this report because it is extensive, high-quality and comprehensive, the specific quality of this report gives the use of more resources for its assembly, so the report reflects complaints from citizens, other information sources such as various reports by competent state bodies, not governmental organisations, reports by bodies responsible for monitoring individual instruments of international law. Any segment of this report should be approached with due attention. Why? Because this is a very important document, a document that speaks about the state and functioning of the states, a document that is a significant indicator of the state of human rights in the country, a document that speaks about the functioning of the system, a document that tells us how well we are governed by the country and the document that shows how much cheaper and more efficient we need the administration, the administration that is in the service of the citizens and which does not exist for our own sake. As regards the number of complaints in 2011 it is within the multi-annual average. What particularly falls into the eyes is that certain issues and problems have been highlighted for years, but there has been no progress in solving them. Issues and problems in which progress has not been recorded, even though it has been pointed out for years in the reports of the Ombudsman is a subject of the policyisation of the administration, of the status and salaries of civil servants and of the tenants, of the need for further reform of the system of free legal assistance and of resolving the complex issue of the relationship between the owners and the tenants in their apartments. It is unacceptable for the competent authorities to act in an equal manner for years even though they are repeatedly referred to irregularities, it is unacceptable that serious violations of human rights occur and that protection of human rights can only be achieved by means of a procedure before the European Court of Human Rights. One of the fundamental human rights, the right to ownership is a constitutional category, but some of our citizens today cannot use their formerly suspended assets or must pay substantial funds to temporary users who have invested in their property. How can we see from this report is too often the case that the problem remains unresolved even after intervention or reports by the Advocate General. Generation of court proceedings and administrative disputes occurs often through the administration's guilt, leading to ineffectiveness of the entire apparatus and unnecessary spending of budget funds. The role of the Advocate General is of paramount importance in every regulated society, so in particular it should be done to ensure that its powers to consider individual cases of threat to the rights of citizens, who have not been obstructed by the authorities of the state administration and bodies of public authority in the course of carrying out their duties, by impediment to the requests of the Advocate General. Although the legal deadline was 30 days in some cases, it took more than a year for the authorities to respond. In as many as 173 cases, almost 10% of the total number of cases, it was necessary to send up to 5 rushes, and in 60 cases, the Ombudsman did not receive an answer even though he repeatedly hurried. Therefore, not only are some authorities of the state administration and bodies with public authority endangering the rights of citizens, but they are also deafen to the legal obligation to respond within 30 days to the request of the Advocate General. Among these bodies are primarily by the old names of the former Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction, the Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, the Ministry of Administration and individual units of local self-government. And when we see where these former ministries come back again and again to the same things, I can't help but remember the report by the State Attorney of the Republic of Croatia when we looked at that part of his report concerning the civil part of the jurisdiction of the state's attorney's office, when we saw that exactly those ministries that I've now counted are the ones where the least success was in obtaining litigation procedures. So, I would like to point out in particular that this is exactly the part of the state administration that does not properly do its job. There have been areas that have a tendency to rise complaints since 2007, and it is necessary to pay particular attention to these areas as part of the implementation of the rationalisation and efficiency of the administration reform. These are areas of justice, persons deprived of liberty, employment and service relations, family law, custody, finance and enforcement. Effective respect for human rights depends largely on the quality of public administration. The illegal conduct of the administration, including violation of fundamental rights, is always an abuse of the official position. That's what's crucial to change in our country. For years, it was a model of behavior and functioning. And not only was he a model of behavior and function but he gained momentum year after year in his unscrupulousness and in his proportions. We are witnessing a number of proceedings due to abuse of the official position and underranked and highly-ranked officials and officials, and we have discussed this again with a reminder of the State's Attorney's Office's work report. At the end of the evaluation and the proposals submitted in its report by the Ombudsman in the field of administration, justice, and legal and social security are extremely useful on the way to the construction of an orderly state, a country where all its citizens exercise their fundamental human rights. And for all the sake of the SDP club, they will accept this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8638	Thank you, too, Your Honor. Participants in the debate on a report by the narrator are now part of the Croatian Democratic Community club and the respected representative Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8639	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Pugid's Ombudsman, colleagues and fellow representatives of the Croatian Parliament. With its 2011 report, the Ombudsman demonstrates his ambition that the data he has been taking and the cases he has dealt with to give a general and complete assessment of the degree of respect for the constitutional and legal rights of Croatian citizens and not only Croatian citizens in the Republic of Croatia. In view of the extensive material of 134 pages, representatives of the Croatian Parliament could rightly expect that this amount of text would be shown in fact by respecting the constitutional and legal rights of citizens. However, if it is to be tried by the number of cases, i.e. complaints received in the Office of the Public Prosecutor and on the number of citizens with whom the same conversation was conducted, and in particular the number of complaints made, it appears that respect for human rights and the degree of their protection in the Republic of Croatia in 2011 was likely in the previous years at a relatively high and enviable level. During 2011, according to the report, the Ombudsman received 1900 written complaints and a conversation with 616 citizens was held in the office. Of the total cases received in 2011 along with those remaining from the previous year, 1903 complaints were resolved, of which there were 1089 unfounded, and those which were incomplete or did not fall under the authority of the occupier were 318 while only 496 were established. Not underestimating the importance and problem of the threat of constitutional and legal rights of any citizen in the Republic of Croatia, because each is really important, however, by reading very numerous indicators and the area covered by the Ombudsman, which is the system of state administration, local self-government and public services, the inevitable question is how much is the actual percentage of the complaints which were raised by the Ombudsman in respect of the total number of cases of state administration, local and regional self-government and judicial authorities, as well as public services which have dealt with in certain constitutional and legal rights of Croatian citizens. It is difficult to get such data at this point, but only an example of the work can be mentioned that only the state administration has resolved over 6 million administrative cases over one year and decides in each of them a right or obligation of one of the natural or legal persons in the Republic of Croatia. When we put the relationship between the complaints raised by the Ombudsman, it could be concluded that the number was almost negligible. However, on this basis, it might be wrong to draw such a conclusion on respect for the constitutional and legal rights of Croatian citizens because we are well aware of all efforts by all governments so far to improve the work of state, local, judicial and public administrations as a whole that we are still not fully satisfied with the work of the overall public administration and is therefore constantly talking about the need for its reform with a view to increasing its efficiency and legality in the work. However, what can be indicated to us is this number of total received, and especially the complaints received by the Ombudsman in 2011. It tells us in our opinion that the Ombudsman is not necessarily recognized by Croatian citizens as an institution that would indeed act as the authority of the Croatian Parliament and as the true protector of all constitutional and legal rights of Croatian citizens. The question arises as to what should have been done, and it did not seem that the Ombudsman was indeed what was coming from the Constitution and the law. If it is to be tried by the number of legitimate or established complaints in 2011, the Ombudsman could have informed us in a shortened version of each of these 496 based complaints and we do not think this report would be much more extensive. As already stated by the Ombudsman in our report, the Ombudsman is trying to assess the degree of respect for constitutional and legal rights but, unfortunately, it does so with clear and unequivocal ideological and political positions. This is particularly due to the part of the report which speaks of evaluations and proposals, particularly in the section concerning state administrations, in which they are unequivocally politically assessing the harmfulness of the conduct of a special tender procedure for the appointment of public officials, the director of the administration in the previous term, holding the same that they have been appointed solely by the criteria of political similarity and loyalty rather than by professional and professional criteria. That's how he keeps the bad guy. On the other hand, it holds the necessary removal of the state officials concerned as they are the same other policy options while the appointment of ministerial assistants as politically appointed officials who are headed and directly manage administrations and services whose work requires professionalism and political neutrality is expected not to assess just as harmful but only mildly finds that this is not good. While in the previous period of appointment of senior civil servants, the director of the administration was carried out after a public tender, the possibility of each of the competitors who had not been appointed and the appropriate judicial protection was left. The question arises, has any unsatisfactory competitors initiated an appropriate judicial procedure and has the Ombudsman available to any of the justified complaints concerning the appointment of management officers from that period. For this emerging situation, when public tenders are not even carried out clearly, there is no possibility of investing any complaints or lawsuits, thus neither justified lawsuits to the attorney general. From all of this, it can be concluded that the Ombudsman approves and maintains the unquestioned remuneration of civil servants in the state service without prior tender procedure, regardless of the constitutionally guaranteed right of any Croatian citizen to be available to the state or public service under equal conditions. There is also no word on the further expansion of the politically appointed persons and beyond the circle of deputy and ministerial assistants and on the undefined number of civil servants who can be employed in the cabinets of ministers without any determination of their professional capacity but can be employed without any delay solely by the criteria of political similarity. In this regard, the attorney general does not, in all likelihood, see any problem that can negatively affect the politicisation and deprofessionalisation of the state administration. Constitutional and legal rights are not ideologically defined, nor are they red or blue, and therefore, the authorised Croatian Parliament that deals with the protection of the constitutional and legal rights of Croatian citizens should not be politically ideologically colored in its grades but should be ideologically neutral and stick to the purely clearly defined constitutional rights and freedom of Croatian citizens and their protection, regardless of which side and from which those same rights and assumptions for their achievement came. If it is to judge this clearly the ideological colour of the ideological report of the Ombudsman with great interest, we expect his report next year for 2012 which will, in all likelihood, be marked by absolute respect for the constitutional and legal rights of Croatian citizens. In view of the fact that by changing power, the current ruling majority, as suggested in previous years, are prepared by the basis of a report by the Ombudsman, to draw up an action plan to remove all obstacles to the achievement of human rights in their fullness. And from the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which has been delivered to us, the government of the Republic of Croatia has only found that it has tasked the competent authorities to take appropriate measures to remove irregularities listed in the report as well as in direct contact with the Ombudsman, to further consider individual objections with the aim of removing them as quickly as possible. In view of the fact that the Polish Ombudsman is the authorised Croatian Parliament, we expected the Government of the Croatian Parliament to present an action plan for the removal of observed irregularities, such as on the occasion of a debate on the report by the Ombudsman last year, and now the ruling majority has sought the Croatian government since then. This would be politically correct and credible, however, as this government is not credible in many other things, it is not in this case either. From all above, the HZD club will not vote in favour of a conclusion that accepts this report by the Ombudsman for 2011. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8640	Thank you, Your Honor. The next club is the HNS club and respected representative Boris Blazekovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8641	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Attorney General. Today, the most important annual report to be submitted to the public through this House of Commons is in front of us. It's a report on the work of a public defender popularly called the Ombudsman. We in the HNS did not notice any political colour of the report itself. This is, in our opinion, the most important report because it directly concerns the basis for the state's existence, the security of human rights and the civil freedoms of all its inhabitants. The Ombudsman also reports on the degree of respect for the constitutional and legal rights of citizens. In addition to the reports of other attorneys and defenders, the annual report simply paints the national level during last year's period. The legal provision, i.e. Article 2 of the Advocate General, is the authority of the Croatian Parliament for the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms established by the Constitution, the laws and international legal acts on human rights and freedoms which form part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. It's certainly one of the most noble jobs at all, but it's also one of the most responsible jobs at all. The law further states that the Ombudsman promotes and protects human rights and freedoms and the rule of law by considering complaints about the existence of illegality and irregularities in the work of state bodies and units of local, regional (regional) self-government, legal persons with public authority, and legal and natural persons in accordance with specific laws. Furthermore, Article 9 states that the Ombudsman has the right to obtain all information and has the right to take into account all the information, documents, bodies referred to in Article 4 of that Act, means the preceding article I have read, on the performance of the tasks of his or her work, regardless of the entry of their confidentiality or protection. We find it worrying and inadmissible that the Ombudsman is waiting for some answers to his official enquiries for over a year, although the legal deadline is 30 days. In 173 the Ombudsman’s report said it was necessary to refer from one to five rushes, and in 60 cases, the Ombudsman did not receive an answer at all. It seems incredible, but true. In the HNS, we find it simply absurd that ombudsman's enquiries are deafened and not responding on an up-to-date basis to some of the ministries of the Republic of Croatia and other institutions and local self-government and even the Ministry of Justice. For us, it is an incredible ignore and unconscious pomition compared to those of which these same ministries of institutions exist, which are Croatian citizens and citizens. And we repeat, the attorney general is the authority of the Croatian Parliament. An institution where all of us who deal with politics at any level and in any quality we must meet and simply provide quick and effective insight and answer to any request is the institution of the attorney general. In its final statement, the Ombudsman is simply the conscience of the society, including the Ombudsman of persons with disabilities, the lawyer for gender equality and the Ombudsman for children. Statistics show that in 2011, there was a slight increase of 77 complaints compared to 2010. In 2010, there were 1823, and in 2011. 1900. In total, there were 2356 cases in the previous years, completed in 1903 and 1498 cases in 2011 totaling 76% of the cases solved, and 24% of the cases not solved. The problem of resolving procedures is also related to the duration of the resolution of procedures by the competent authorities. But the total number of 1900 applications in 2011 seems to be a relatively small number, which is around 0.044% compared to the number of inhabitants, and it is the impression that the human rights of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are under really good protection. However, in the HNS, we feel that there is insufficient information for citizens and citizens on their real rights and on the existence and description of the work of the attorney general. We think it is necessary to significantly improve information and information for citizens on the activities of the Ombudsman. This should be done systematically, at all levels using all possible means of knowledge and people. We think that to meet citizens how and how they can and should protect their rights should not be unreasonable restrictions. We recommend that this year, based on experience, a strong professional campaign is designed that could be realized in the coming years. This calls on all media to immediately engage in enhanced information on their rights, especially from the domain of protection of human rights and... the freedom and thus the work of the attorney general. [[You don't understand.]] This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In his work, the Law on the Ombudsman is independent and independent. Every form of influence on the work of the attorney general is prohibited. In the exercise of its powers, the Ombudsman shall act in accordance with the constitutional and legal provisions and international legal acts on human rights and freedoms which are part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. In its work, the Advocate General shall be governed by the principle of justice and morality and shall act impartially and in accordance with the standards of good governance. In the performance of his work from his district, the Ombudsman cooperates with the public, especially with associations that promote the interests of citizens, the academic community and the media. In the course of his work in the area, the Ombudsman may request the assistance of scientists, experts and institutions. It is a very significant and transparent table of parallel representation of complaints on topics, legal areas for the period from 2007 to 2011. This table can simply read the development of those legal areas, i.e. the subject, although due to a small number of applications and this table should be taken with a certain reserve. I'll just read some. Let's say the justice system was 2007. 276 applications, 2011. 397. Persons deprived of freedom in 2007. 131 applications, 2011 two twelve. Construction, space of planning and the environment 2007. 129, 2011. 67. The residential care of 117 2007, 2010 is 50 and 2011 is 37. It can be really read through these tables in which areas certain rights have been respected more or less. In Article 15, the following The Ombudsman's law states that anyone who considers that the illegal or irregular work of the body referred to in Article 4 of this Act is threatened or violated by its constitutional or legal rights and freedoms may appeal to the Ombudsman for the purpose of initiating the proceedings. For the purposes of examining individual and frequent similar violations of constitutional or legal rights and freedom, the Advocate General may initiate proceedings on his own initiative. If the Advocate General intends to initiate proceedings on his own initiative or on a proposal from a person whose rights are not injured for the conduct of the proceedings, it is necessary to obtain consent from a person to whom constitutional or legal rights and freedoms are directly threatened or injured, unless it is a matter of protecting the child's well-being, if the case has been learned through the media or if it is an emergency. No one shall be put in a more unfavourable position or called to account for his address to the vacancy attorney. In principle, the Advocate General shall make recommendations, opinions and warnings to the public authority and to all others who may or may not really endanger one's human rights and civil freedoms. Therefore, public support and recognition of the activities of the Ombudsman is even more important. In the HNS, we believe that the role of the media is dried up and that no responsible media can be deafened to the work, remarks, recommendations and problems of the attorney general. The Croatian Parliament and the media must be the closest allies in the work of the occupier. In its 2011 Report, the Ombudsman gave 27 recommendations for various areas. We think it is important to read and warn about 7 recommendations in the field of social care, family and legal protection and custody of maternity and parental support. First, the Ombudsman recommends that the work of shelters or shelters should be encouraged for the homeless in large cities due to better quality temporary reception and improved cooperation with social care centres for the social inclusion of homeless people in the local community in which they live. To adopt a strategy and social housing law that would develop a social housing system and allow equal access to rights, i.e. to mitigate regional inequalities. Third, to speed up the process of deinstitutionalisation of particularly mentally ill persons with prior insurance, a network of services and support in the local community that would ensure equal lives in the community for people with disabilities. Fourthly, to carry out continuous surveillance of work and general acts of units of local self-government in the field of social care in order to remove irregularities in their handling, in particular with regard to the recognition of the right to assistance for housing and financial assistance in order to obtain equipment for a newborn child. Fifthly, create conditions for the introduction of a new state support institute for elderly people without a pension so-called pension. "Social pension." The sixth, ensure a multidisciplinary approach in the skill-making process to achieve maternity and parental support in the health system, i.e. to speed up the formation of a single body of skills for all systems. And the seventh, hastily implement the reform of the custody institute, in particular, to leave the present institute of depravation of special abilities and to apply it exceptionally in rare and justified cases, and the powers of the Centre for Social Care in the field of custody should be transferred to courts because it is about limiting human rights. It is important for the public to say that the law stipulates that the Ombudsman has been performing jobs and a national preventive mechanism for preventing torture and other cruel, inhuman or humiliating proceedings and punishments since this year. It should certainly be noted that it is necessary to amend an extremely complicated and complex Law on Free Legal Assistance. A comprehensive and thorough report by the Croatian Ombudsman has been processed and should certainly be supported by what we will do at the HNS club. But looking at real life in the eyes without fooling anyone else, the least of them should finally say that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia were all but free in the past and that their human rights were permanently threatened. Right to the truth, right to work, right to freedom of choice, right to legal protection, right to equality before courts, right to information, right to education, right to freedom of movement, right to health, right to social security, the right to privacy, the right to equality in employment and a number of other human rights and civil liberties. Specially threatened law was the right to fair governance of the state. During the past period, countries have simply failed to perform their functions with these institutions. She wasn't fair or fair, and she wasn't cheap. I am interested in all of us in the Parliament, in the new government, that we will all uncompromisingly address all the challenges of establishing the highest standards of human rights and civil liberties for our citizens and citizens. I'm sure that no amendments to our laws and regulations will be radical enough if it's guided by these highest standards. I believe our ambitions must be enormous and without limits. Everything known in terms of the highest attainment of human freedoms and civil rights must at least be our goal, and on many occasions only a starting point because for our citizens we have both the right and the duty to seek and realise absolutely and only what is best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8642	Thank you, Your Honor. The next club is the club of Croatian Labourists and respected representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8643	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. According to the Ombudsman's report for last year, 1900 new cases are and this is an increase compared to the year before. Is the number of cases that come to the attorney general from year to year bigger is that good or bad? Is that 1900 objects a lot or a little? It's good if it's a reflection of trust in the institution, our authority to protect human rights. It's small if these are all objects that in any procedure have been violated by any right. But we know well that all those who have been wronged do not complain, not only address the occupier but also other specialised attorneys, so they do not use all the opportunities and other institutions. But the fact that from year to year, this number of cases is growing suggests that we are still in all segments of the administration, and we are not in normative management, and we are not in the executive order of things. Three hundred ninety-seven cases were on the subject of justice. And that number rises year by year even though the Ombudsman has no jurisdiction and authority in those cases. We can only conclude this fact and go on and we don't care, but I would stop at it a little bit and say that the Croatian Parliament will be involved in solving these facts and problems that the vacancy attorney of the public from year to year warns us of the long-term length of court proceedings, which is why the state register is being damaged because, according to the judgments of international courts, we have to pay compensation and compensation. We can escape that figure by hiding behind the flossula that this report is ideologically and politically colored. But the problem of long-term court proceedings will remain. And no matter who's the Attorney General in a year, two, five, or ten, that finding will always stand in those reports as it stands in this eighth order that I've read. There were 173 cases where the Ombudsman had to describe up to 5 rushes to get an answer, to 60 of his demands he had not received a reply at all. Do not respond to the Ombudsman as it is not responding to the Croatian Assembly, try to imagine the situation that the Croatian Assembly is asking for something from some ministry and they refuse, it is the same. Which authorities in the last year did not want, knew, or for any other reason co-operated with the Attorney General. Ministry of Environment, Ministry of Regional Development, Ministry of Justice, Agriculture, Administration and some units of local, regional self-government, who were ministers or ministers in those ministries? I expected everyone to be here today in the hall and ask them, well, colleagues and colleagues, do you feel at least a little political responsibility that as members of the government and ministers, you did not cooperate with the Attorney General, or did you not know that your subordinates did not answer questions, demands and requests from the Attorney General? Is that why anyone sanctioned, removed from a sense of responsibility politically resigned? It's not. And that's the problem with us in Parliament, because year after year, we accept the report or receive knowledge and nothing else, after a whole day more or less of a heated debate. I was expecting an apology from the former ministers and ministers of the Police Attorney here in the Parliament for the lack of co-operation to which the law obliges them. The government, with its views and opinions, covered such behaviour, amnested them out of responsibility for eight years in a row, and I want to believe that we will never again get the government's opinion with a flossula that the report has been read and that they've put someone in charge of something, to do something. I'm amazed by the HDZ Club's view that this report is the ideological and political classification of the Police Attorney. It is simply amazing to listen to such sentences, for not one time did the Ombudsman's report not answer them, and they have always brought it down to the basics of political or godlike ideological classification. Well, I guess because they knew in advance that the Attorney General would stand up, I guess that's why the ministries didn't answer his questions, they didn't solve citizens' problems. And there is another new kind of complaints from citizens that appears in a little bit in 2010 and in particular in 2011, and these are the performances and the problem of the performance. And from that we can escape in a way that we can only find a new form of problem for the citizens we have and we don't have to open up the debate either, or we don't have to ask the government for anything, we can be blinded by the fact that the Attorney General warns us that there's something wrong with the implementation system. I would still like to finish the debate with concrete proposals. The most important part of the report is always the recommendations of the Attorney General, so let me draw three. The Attorney General writes, the new General Administrative Procedure Act came into force on 1 January 2010, so it has been in force for more than 2 years. The law was meant to modernise and improve the resolution in the administrative procedure to facilitate and speed up the exercise of citizens' rights, as well as to ensure the protection of their rights in relation to any conduct or conduct of administrative and other public legal bodies and even public service providers. It continues to conclude that, despite the fact that such a law has been in force for 2 years, there has been no major progress and reminds that the Ministry of Administration is obliged to report, inform the Government of the resolution of administrative matters and of the procedures carried out to protect against the conduct of public legal authorities and public service providers. What do you think it would be like if instead of the government, the Department of Administration had to deliver these reports to the Parliament? The law passed a parliament, a realisation, a report on the implementation of the law goes to the government not to the Parliament and the government after warning the Ombudsman of having received the report, and he warns that there is something wrong with the application of the law. It's a total of five, and I'd like to make three recommendations. There are serious problems in meeting the principle and applying the provisions in the administrative procedure. Some new institutes of the 2009 General Administrative Procedure Act are practically not applicable in practice, and this is not even the necessary records. Secondly, in the reports of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, measures should be proposed to the ministry in due time to address the problem in unscheduled portfolios and services. Did this government, too, give an opinion to the report, indicate that it had requested such an urgent report from the ministry. Third, strengthen surveillance services at the Ministry of Administration. Whether the government accepts this recommendation by the Ombudsman and whether it will strengthen the oversight services at the Ministry of Administration. As far as the judiciary is concerned, in last year's report, we welcomed and positively assessed the legal adjustments that should have created assumptions and frameworks to improve the urgency of the judiciary, according to the Ombudsman. At the same time, however, we also warned about the hardness of the problem and its multiple sources, the causes of which would lead to resolution and even mitigation for years. And according to the 2011 data, the effects of the measures so far have been shown to be somewhat exhausted and warns that there is no self-satisfaction, effects exhausted and recommends new moves. What new moves the government has prepared on the basis of this report to reach the Parliament, both legal and social security. As the authority of the Croatian Parliament and a kind of mediator between citizens and state authorities, the Public Prosecutor warns of the poor state of legal and social security in each annual report since 2006. And the need to change the relationship between the authorities and the citizens. A particular problem with regard to social and legal security is the system of free legal assistance for poor legal solutions to the law on free legal aid that many who need to be left unprotected. We warned before and after the law was passed and pointed to too strict criteria and complexity of the procedure. This was also warned by the citizens, we also warned in the Assembly when the law was passed. But now we and the attorney general warn us that the model, way and criteria of exercising the right to free legal protection are not good. Whether in that sentence that the Government has written in its opinion that they accept this report and the fact that this report will be adopted in the Assembly means that we will soon receive a proposal for a new or amended Law on the provision of free legal assistance. If none of these proposals, the active moves of new laws, reports or the establishment of a supervisory system in the resolution ministries will be possible then the debate and adoption of this report will indeed become only formality, satisfaction with the law of the prescribed form, and trust me to send a message that discourages citizens from speaking to the Ombudsman in a greater number, and thus we contribute to the Croatian Parliament's poor status to the state's institutions because we do not respond actively to warnings and recommendations but only by constituting. If the government does not propose these shifts and moves, I expect such proposals from representatives of the ruling majority clubs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8644	Thank you very much. The next club is the HDSSB club and respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8645	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Attorney General, MPs and MPs. This is a comprehensive and in our view relatively high-quality report, so immediately at the beginning of the debate, I would like to point out that the club of the representatives of the HDSSB is this report and, as well as the work of the Ombudsman's Office, supports the whole or in another way, to express that 10 million kunas, how many taxpayers each year, are not wasted money. The 2011 report states that 616 talks were held during 2011, that 1903 cases had been completed. Here is a comparative representation of complaints in legal areas for a period of zero to two thousand eleven. It is worth noticing the trends of decline, i.e. the trends of growth in certain areas, and these are actually visible some neural points in social relations or in the work of certain public sectors. So it is evident that complaints in the area of pension insurance are actually falling, the number has dropped for the last four, five years, the number of complaints in the area of housing, the restoration of housing relations, property legal relations, denationalisation. So, generally from the area of this apartment, construction, reconstruction. The number of complaints in the health sector, education, complaints about police work is stagnating, i.e. it does not change while there are actually four areas where the number of complaints is growing. So these are obviously some of the points where problems happen. This is primarily the judiciary, then the problem of the prison system, and there is the problem of finance or execution. Therefore, this is clearly where citizens encounter problems and in an unsatisfactory way how the institutions of this system deal with it. The speakers mentioned two measures in response to what should be done, so I will look back on them. One is a measure that has been mentioned repeatedly strengthening institutions, strengthening state institutions. Well, I think state and public institutions are strong enough and legitimate and humane and there is no more to strengthen. The economy is devastated, the citizens are poor. There is no more strengthening of the state or public institutions, nor does this society have the resources to strengthen them. But it is time for them to be aired, to improve their efficiency, not to strengthen them more legislatively, or humanely, or materially, in any way, but to force them to do their job better. There are internal reserves of the entire public sector. Also another leit motive mentioned in the debate is one of the answers to how to improve the situation and improve citizens' information about their rights. Well, citizens are full of information. People have lived since they woke up until they lay down in the world, and they've been bombed with information. People can't absorb that kind of information anymore. I don't think it's an answer in their enhanced information, but the answer is to inform citizens who are serving. Because today, a citizen has a problem with the fact that the person he talks to cannot obtain information to the full or to the full. So not inform citizens but educate and inform those who work with citizens. And I think that this should actually put the focus on information issues so that those citizens who have spoken to any question and regardless of which public service it was possible to provide full and complete information, not to walk. Because citizens don't have absolute capacity anymore and people can't just inform themselves of everything and everything. People work, have their families, have their lives, can't yet be informed about all their legal rights or not the rights they have, it's illusory to expect. But those who work with them should be informed because it is their job among other things. Here's a little bit about the areas that have been processed. In the case of persons deprived of liberty, the number of complaints in 2007 was 131, 2012 was 212 complaints. So the obvious increase in the number of complaints is persons deprived of liberty. On the terms of accommodation, the re-acceptation of the prison system, which is said by the occupancy lawyer 135%, some say 150%, some say 170%, there is a certain inequality in showing the re-responsibility of the prison system may depend on the time when it is determined. The problems are mentioned... interpreting the legal provisions of visits, dating and the like, lack of bed, lack of oxygen, lack of space. What the occupier did not refer to in this section is the question of a probationary system that provides certain additional reserves to reduce prison capacity. However, the sampling system has not yet entered day - to - day court practice in general into everyday practice. This case-law is partly unequal, regardless of what is strictly prescribed, but the methods of implementation of this trial are also unequal. So we think that there's still more space to go with the whole introduction of that system to reduce the number of people who are going to support prison sentences. There is also a problem of the health care of prisoners, dental protection, surgery, treatment. The fact is, there's no one to do these jobs, not today, not for those who aren't prisoners, let alone in the prison system. I know in Požega where there has been a large penitentiary for decades you can't find a doctor who would work there, because the salary is extremely small, smaller than the doctor in the public system, the working conditions are bad, the people you work with are still much more risky and of course no one will work. The answer is always more or less when there is a deficitary ability to pay more no matter where it is or where it is at work. As far as working and service relations are concerned, there is a rise in the number of complaints from 73 since 2007 to 182 complaints in 2012. These complaints concern employment irregularities, not extending the contract to certain, non-payments of salaries, unauthorised cancellations of labour contracts and mobing. When it comes to the problem of managing officials and depolitising the state administration as well as the problem of local officials and subsistence, the report highlights an increase in the number of complaints from local officials on illegal changes in the structure of staff in administrative bodies due to the change in the political option that won the elections. Here comes the issue of resolving the head of the management bodies of the local administration and self-government units. We can talk to each other publicly and privately but the government has set an example of how it is done. So if government ministers, therefore, who are not elected by the people but who are appointed have the right practically without any criteria to choose a circle of their associates, on the other hand we are asking directly elected by the citizens of directly elected officials, these are the mayors and mayors that they do not have the right. The mayors and mayors were the heads and their assistant ministers only in a small way, and that was the case, whether we were satisfied or not. But that's the way it is. The mayors and mayors ask for both their ability and their loyalty. I don't call for any cleanups or any basics, we're not in this situation as a party, but here we need to find real solutions and think about it, and that the image of the model that we've taken over for the state level. It is also interesting that this is the only chapter, so the chapter on working and official relations that I have seen does not make any recommendations from the attorney general. Finance and enforcement, the problem of finance and enforcement is obvious, there is constantly growing number of complaints of citizens, citizens are in increasingly difficult financial conditions, banks are ruthless, the state is ruthless, they are all actually ruthless to citizens and there are people in situations where it has been transferred to public notebooks that are still expensive, and they are taking their bite too, tight interest is being charged high, I think that today being a citizen of Croatia and being in financial problems poor mother. As far as the 2007 judiciary is concerned, 276 complaints in 2012 397 complaints. Most of all, the unsustainableness and longevity of proceedings as the biggest problem of the judiciary and this is actually the cause of numerous violations and human rights. The question is, is justice slow but accessible? Often, slow justice is an ordinary injustice. If I were to read a part of this report that was very impressed with me, Mr. Malcic would only take it out for a short while, so I would read it entirely, the question of legal and social security. "The senior crisis and economic recession have further deepened and such major social differences have arisen at the time of conversion and privatisation. Poverty becomes a reality for more and more citizens. In social cases, unemployed people who work and pay irregularly, poverty threatens pensioners and employees whose income is lagging behind the cost of living. This is witnessed by a dramatic increase in performances that hit the poorest. The common sense of the poor is the injustice and absence of faith that their position will soon change. They ask the state to take more care of them in the adoption of all regulations and measures and to distribute the burden of the crisis more justly. You're convinced that the poor, not the attorney general, that the budget money and the social money are being spent irrationally. In particular, they require that more work be introduced into the work of the administration and the judiciary, often due to the lack of awareness, lack of communication and non-response of feeling as citizens of the second order," in fact, here the report makes an excellent point for one of the biggest social problems of Croatian society and Croatian citizens. A deep sense of injustice, of a social injustice that actually weighs most of the citizens. It is a sense of injustice that we have all felt on one or on one or on the one we have been exposed to in Croatian society. The state and citizens are not partners, but in some way in that frustration they become opponents, in a permanent game called who will who. Whether more states will drain citizens or the citizen will somehow get away with it, so if at the cost of his existence and cheat on the state, not to get rich, most often to survive, he and his children and his family. Under the state, I don't mean only the central state here, but everything that's on the other side of the counter. Both the post office and the bank and the grantovnica and the tax administration and HZZO and the city office, it's all some kind of personification of a country where a man is found and there's no trust. This trust has not been violated today, it has been destroyed over the past 20 years, through the systematic inability of the authorities at all levels. In those rare cases where the local government that worked there's actually a smaller gap. The wall of red tape that citizens face is often simply too high and then what will the citizens do? Either they're banging their heads off a wall, or they're a little greased up on those little doors in that wall where they can get through, or they're complaining to the attorney general, and at least they're sharing their torment with someone.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8646	Thank you very much. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament expired at 11 for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. Thank you very much. We're going to discuss clubs. Now it's up to the IDS club and the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8647	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Attorney-General of the Police, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. Is this report, as Mr Ante Babic of HDZ, an ideological report. As far as I know, the HDZ proposed Mr. Malcic first to the Constitutional Court and later to the position of the attorney general, I think so. True, Mr. Malcic probably wants the new government to confirm him, but for Mr. Malcic today, to say that he is ideologically colored, it is at least insolent because if a man had the need to like someone to become a constitutional judge today, there is no need to raise anyone. And finally, this neutral and what's most important is correct reports, I don't know how many years it's been confirming. The HDZ club also said, Mr Babic, or talked about non-competition receipts alluding to this new coalition, he spoke of this head working and official relations. But you see what happened a few days ago. I dare say that the Directorate of the Police de facto took over the leadership of a large Croatian party and that also says how depolitized the gentlemen of the police were in the past term of the last government. Not even the former minister's legal or personnel solutions should be intervened now, as you know that police are a few exallances politicised. It is true, and Brussels now complicates the amendments to the law, but if one authority cannot change a law then a man asks himself how independent and how sovereign it is, not to say seriously, so to be cynical, in the future the state will also have to start addressing the Ombudsman to protect it in one of its sovereign practices. When we talk about attorneys in general, then we're talking about four attorneys, so we have a ombudsman, an ombudsman, we have a lawyer for children, so we have a lawyer for persons with disabilities, gender equality, etc. I've said a lot that maybe all these defenses should be joined together, that we should go back to those positions that we were in there maybe until 2001. The Prime Minister is listening to speeches if we keep this up, it won't be for salaries or Christmases, regresses, other rights from collective agreements have passed the time and so on. I don't think Croatia would have felt any change if, when it comes to the defence departments, they might have returned to their positions from 2000, 2001. I'm not saying it for money, I'm not saying it for the budget, I'm saying it for the sake of efficiency. But what must have impressed me the most is to quote, that's this head that's talking on the side seems to me 50 and someone about so-called. Protected by tenants, but only a little later. On the 1st side, it is said, among other things, that it was received in the Public Attorney's Office 1900 written complaints, 80 more than last year, and it was personally held in the office with 616 citizens. So, the attorney general had those 1900 cases and those 600 conversations. Now, that's not the most important thing either, but the most important thing is whether some who address the occupier's occupier to the occupier of the occupier, or better said after his intervention, can help the institution of the state. It is also clear that when someone forms an institution, it is not possible to abolish it afterwards. But I'm the most involved in this debate over what's-his-name. Protected tenants, and I'm really asking the question when will this problem be solved. A whole chapter in this report has been devoted by the Attorney General to these very relations. The former government didn't want to solve this problem, now it's clear that there's a new government, a new time. I'm talking here about my private position, but the injustice that seems so-called. The protected tenants is an injustice I dare say that hurts. I'm not running from the truth that it's wartime, I mean that communist rule in '46, '47, '48, when it was, through nationalization, made one terrible injustice to the owners of so-called. Nationalized apartments. No one just came to the apartment and that someone and their family had to know what to deprive of to build a house or get some property. And that's certainly what hurts. The owner of the apartment clearly needs to be compensated, but what's going on today? Now some of the tenants, I think there are about 3,000 of them in Croatia, 60, 50, 45, over 40 years of living in these apartments, are increasingly not listed as being literally deposed, thrown into the street and found to be the same as the communist authorities did through nationalisation to the owners of the apartments. I think owners absolutely need to be compensated, protected by tenants, to allow at some fair price to buy those apartments where, I said, some of them live 60, 50, 45, 40 years. Maybe I wouldn't be in that position if they hadn't been returned in the early '90s. Confiscated apartments. What's the difference between these nationalized and confiscated apartments? Nationalized apartments, estates, factories are not important, fairies under quotes, taken or nationalized, kidnapped to be more precise, class enemies, and confiscated property is under quotes by "national enemies" of collaborationists, associates with the occupier etc. So in a way nationalized... The wealthy people, confiscated by those who cooperated with me or collapsed or cooperated with the occupier. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now what happens in the '90s? Confiscated dwellings of the state are returned so that several houses, apartments here in Zagreb, among other things, in the possession of these apartments and houses come, say, the daughter of Ante Pavelic, and the nationalised does not return. And I agree it seems to be injustice and former owners, but it seems the same if not the greater injustice of the tenants themselves. The tenants, once again I'm going to say, live in those 60, 50 apartments I haven't known in 45 years. They're the same people who have what I know of some memory, some memories to that space where they lived. That's where they gave birth or that's where they got kids, they got grandkids, and really today these people have nowhere else to go. I can only contact Mr. Malcic's attorney general. And Mr. Malcic, in this case, can spare a whole head in this report, but he's usually helpless. On the other hand, it happened in '91. Or '92. 400 thousand social apartments or tenants in those apartments were sold, buying apartments for 4, 5, 10 grand, I don't know the marks or anything like that. These tenants simply stayed I would say with myself in one legislative wind. And that's why I think that one future law should allow these tenants to buy these apartments, and the owners, which are usually the heirs today, should be compensated in one correct way from the money they have received. The tenant can't be thrown out on the street, and that's what's happening today. We will return the property to the Jews, it was promised in Jerusalem by President Josipovic. Okay, 100% right. Clearly, the Americans are behind it. We'll bring back 5 236 so-called. In Istria, Rijeka, Dalmatia was mostly owned by Italian nationalities today in Italy, and they received so-called "the property". release from Yugoslav citizenship. We've talked about this recently, too. So if possible they'll come into possession through one form of natural restitution, and if they won't settle in money. We're going to solve all this, but our own citizens or those tenants or the protected tenants, the question is, will we, when and if we're going to solve or solve it at all? I know it's a moral question, and I know it's also an ungrateful legal question. We also have the Constitutional Court's decision, we have the unfortunate fates of the owner, we have the unfortunate fates of the tenants, but I think it's less evil at the moment to leave these apartments to the tenants, and, as a rule, heirs to the nationalized dwellings to damage them. I know it's not some ideal justice, and I'm going to get one and the other again, maybe it's one tense justice, but also let's not let the gentlemen solve one new injustice, perhaps at this point even more unjust than the one that happened or the same injustice that happened there in '46, '47. from that communist regime. I agree that's a thankless subject, but the attorney general has a lot of questions about this. Second, what the Ombudsman is also talking about are the issues of citizenship. If someone is seeking Croatian citizenship mainly if in Croatia one of his fathers, his mother, does not matter, if he went to Belgrade with his mother or if I do not know Sarajevo from divorced families, if this person is a loyal citizen, if he did not participate in the war against Croatia, I think that is something to come up with. True, it is not always possible, it is not always simple, but it can also suggest about Croatia as a prosperous country on that floor under the quotes of the "unhappi Balkans". Mostly we have citizens of Serbia whose parents are here in Croatia, others in Serbia, we have workers who want to resolve their status in BiH, Macedonia, etc., etc. Let's try to meet them because I'm sure through my loyalty to this country these people will be able to appreciate under quotes "hosthood". The return of the refugee Serb population, reconstruction, return of property rights, etc., is also one of the chapters Mr Malcic speaks of. He said almost half of the report earlier was about this particular problem. Croatia was absolutely the victim of aggression. The population of the so-called so-called population. "The provinces" moved out before the storm day, two. God forbid it's not because there'd be blood to your knees. The grotesque property was destroyed, burned, then possessed. Croatia invested huge funds to rebuild the property instead of preventing the arson in '95 without a kuna. years, but what's there. Clearly, Croatia should also seek the return of Croats to Banja Luka and Vojvodina and Belgrade and Kragujevac, and I do not know where not. But the point is, those who have not sinned against the Croatian law that did not participate in the aggression must not be scolded. Clearly, in this context, these elections in Serbia will also be interesting to monitor the first steps of the former Czech leader of the current Serbian President, Mr Nikolic, but I think Croatia will speak from the EU's position, as Croatia will also perform from a European platform in addition to Nikolic's policies. Neither should we be afraid of Serbia nor should we be afraid of Nikolic, nor should Serbs be afraid of Croatian policies, but Croatia must also be informed or know what this Nikolic, the wartime 1990s, was doing on the ground in Croatia, even though he shot the same thing we should tell him here we can work through some other structures, through the government, through the ministry, do not need to be directly with you. There are five groups that cause people to address the public defender, the public defender. It's the judiciary, it's a clear retirement, it's people deprived of freedom, it's a working official relationship that I've been talking about, and it's clearly enforcement, finance, 129 it says clearly at this point what the citizens are most pressuring. Mr. Djurović mentioned banks earlier, today I read one piece of information that 10 Croatian banks did business with losses last year, Zagrebačka, Business achieves significantly less profits than in 2011, is not good. If banks are starting to lose, then it's really not good, that capital inadequacy from 12.4% in the first 3 months has jumped to 12.7%. Why isn't it good that the banks aren't well? Because that's gonna make everyone feel even worse...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8648	Bring in the end, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8649	So all in all, I wanted to point out another example, if you'll allow me in two minutes, but it's already time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8650	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8651	What does the administration do, but at some other time. All in all this report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2011 by our court should be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8652	Thank you very much for your presentation we have a registered correction of the incorrect quote and the esteemed representative Željko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8653	Mr. Vice President. I would correct an incorrect allegation that is exactly complete nonsense, of course, which is a statement that the police directorate has taken over one political party, of course alluding to HDZ. It is clear to everyone that it is nonsense, but such nonsense is wonderfully echoed then in the media and the media from the whole debate, which is often important, smart, overly, useful then draw such a single claim. To make the matter more complex, the esteemed representative then accused Brussels of being obviously in a conspiracy with the former interior minister, or HDZ president in a broader conspiracy, probably involving the entire European Union, but then the Americans are involved because I quote: "Americans are actually behind this otherwise very correct just promise by Vice President Josipovic that, the president of the pardoned Josipovic, the property was taken from the Jews in the horror of the Holocaust back. According to this, I have to correct one whole series of incorrect, literally nonsense. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8654	Thank you, Your Honor. Unfortunately, the Rules of Procedure provide for correcting incorrect allegations, not nonsense. Thank you very much. We are going to discuss the club of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, the National Minority Club and the respected representative Nedzad Hodzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8655	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, the esteemed Attorney General of the Police, with co-workers, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. As we have also said on the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, in which as representatives of national minorities we are all and members of that committee. The National Minority Representatives' Club will support and accept this 2011 report on the work of the Ombudsman. The reasons for accepting this report will not be specifically discussed here because this is visible in the debate report on the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and there is no need to repeat it further, nor should we praise this report, which we have concluded is made of quality. We would just like to point out that this report deals with the problem of members of national minorities only to the extent that members of the national minorities addressed the Ombudsman's office with their problems, which, according to this report, mainly referred to the problems of home care of returnees and the return of temporaryly occupied assets. However, we would like to stress this occasion that the problem of members of national minorities is much wider, starting from employment, not employment in state and public institutions, solving or not resolving defence status and the rights resulting from this status, up to registration or registration of councils and representatives of the national minority in respect of those deadlines. If all those members of national minorities who have certain problems with the responsibilities of the Ombudsman were to address the Police Attorney's office, then even a much more numerous teamed office would not be sufficient to address only the problems of members of the national minorities. Therefore, in the Club of National Minority Representatives, we see first and foremost in the consistent application of the laws and responsibilities of those institutions and individuals in charge. Therefore, in the consistent application of the law and the real functioning of the rule of law. And right here at the consistent application of the laws and responsibilities of the institutions and individuals in charge and paid to enforce the laws of our society stands very badly. The winged "Let the rule of law do its job" has been developed, and under the cover of those wings of the citizens of their own country is being brought into a position to seek justice in long-standing court proceedings at the highest levels of our judiciary, but very often also in Strasbourg, that is, beyond the borders of our country. Examples are numerous, but that we are one too many. Institutions and individuals who, for one reason or another, obstruct and do not actually enforce laws conduct lawlessness, lawlessness in one society can have more negative consequences for the citizens of that society even than companies with the laws of segregating character in which even such laws are implemented. Laws conducted by the institutions of the state itself are, in fact, nothing more than the destruction of their own constitutional order. This is what we have witnessed in this society over the past twenty years countless times and far, in the vast majority of victims of illegal conduct and the will of institutions and individuals in charge of law enforcement were members of national minorities. How to prevent this and where the role of the Croatian Parliament is, i.e. our representative in the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. First of all, in our view, parliamentarians must find time in addition to working in Parliament to receive citizens in their election units, listen to the problems they have and in the observed illegal actions, whether executive or judicial authorities react to it. Disrespecting the law in practice absolutely cancels Parliament's work in which laws are passed, and we, as parliamentary representatives, must react to that. This does not mean that we interfere in the work of the executive or judicial authority, but we do have a way to put pressure on both the judicial and executive authorities to do their work in accordance with the laws quickly and efficiently and to the benefit of all citizens of this country. If we did so, we would not repeat the same unresolved problems in the report of the occupier from year to year. If we did so, we would be wind in the back and Office of the General Prosecutor and strengthen his and our position in Croatian society as well. I'll remind you that in our country, we have about every 28,000 inhabitants. If everyone together after the election each in their electoral unit, regardless of which party we belong, were to be at the service of the citizens and to monitor what problems they have, we could make a huge contribution to making the rule of law work as quickly and as effectively as possible. For example, a press conference by a parliamentary representative that would point to possible illegal acts could have a tremendously large effect of particularly preventive character and contribute to much less work for both the executive and the judicial authority, and thus to the Office of the Public Attorney as our attorney. After the independence and creation of the Croatian state, all major political goals have been achieved so far. Croatia is a sovereign, internationally recognised and whole country, we are a NATO member, and in just over a year and a full member of the European Union. The only remaining political tasks that stand before us are the creation of a land of material prosperity and the rule of law for all its citizens. Unfortunately, at this point, we're not standing well in either segment. We are far from a society of material well-being, and further away from a country where all its citizens feel legal certainty. The reasons for such a situation are each other I would say long, but we all have a well-known story. So I urge you all to make a contribution together to change this situation in the near future. We also use this opportunity to express our concern as a club of representatives of national minorities over recent unsavoury events in Škabrnja. In particular, the fact that one discriminatory attitude towards a member of the Roma national minority reflects the collective consciousness of almost all peoples of Škabrnja headed by the head of the municipality. Events in Face and the formation of so-called The CID like of gypsies testifys to a growing xenophobia to which they should react. On this occasion, we want to express our satisfaction with the overall Croatian public's reaction to the events in Skabrnja and Lica from the media, the state's attorney, the parliamentary representatives, and with a certain reserve on first reactions and police. It is the impression that we all care that things change for the better. But we also want to remind ourselves that we are in times of crisis that are ideal for the development of all kinds of impatience in which members of national minorities are the most endangered social category. We at the National Minority Representatives Club daily receive complaints from citizens about the various institutions of our country in which members of national minorities generally express their sense of discrimination against the domestic population or the feeling of indifference or inequality against the law. Such a feeling of course also has a dose of subjective character, but there are numerous evidences of real discrimination, above all, about the consumption of jobs in the state and public administration, the exercise of defence rights, and the right to return to temporary property. And finally, once again, we point out that this 2011 report on the work of the Ombudsman is satisfied and that as the Club of Representatives of National Minorities, we will support and accept this report, and the Office of the Ombudsman wishes that with our help in the future we will have as little work as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8656	Thank you very much to President Nedzad Hodzic and the club of national minorities in the Croatian Parliament. And now we call on the representative of Višnja Fortun and on behalf of the club HSU in the Croatian Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8657	Dear Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The 2011 report on the work of the Ombudsman shows us the state of human rights in the areas that he handles, and we can judge him very well. In addition to the statistics on complaints lodged by citizens, the report contains a comprehensive analysis of administrative areas, a demonstration of international cooperation, and a particularly important final part, which sets out the ombudsman’s principles and proposals for improvement, which are certainly a guideline for further discussions. It warns that the current situation in the Croatian judiciary has serious consequences for citizens and economic development, impedience, length of proceedings is still the biggest problem of the judiciary and the cause of numerous violations of human rights. This also confirms the share of complaints from citizens on the work of courts and judges, which remains 21% in the total number of complaints, which requires that the judiciary remain a social priority as it was until the accession negotiations are completed. However, the majority of 1900 new complaints received relate to the work of administrative bodies and bodies with public authority and to the most complaints on the work of central state authorities. As in previous years, the report highlights in particular the repetition of certain problems facing citizens in the achievement of their Constitution and the law of guaranteed rights, as well as recommendations from the Ombudsman for their resolution. Recurring the same problems is, in fact, an indication of the weakness and problem of public administration, which must be professional and professional at all levels of state, local as a basis for the exercise of citizens' rights. Therefore, a report by the Advocate General is an important argument on the necessity of public administration reform in the direction of depoliticalisation and its professionalisation. I will also refer to a system of free legal assistance that has proved ineffective with complicated procedure and too strict criteria for their achievement and acquisition. Due to this and the increasing possibilities for a large number of citizens to cover the costs of procedures before administrative and judicial authorities independently, many citizens remain actually without legal protection today. We therefore consider it an extremely important recommendation from the Ombudsman on the need to develop a new system of free legal assistance in accordance with good European practice and the swift amendment of the applicable law. The Ombudsman is the authority of the Croatian Parliament for the promotion and protection of human rights and freedoms established by the Constitution, laws and international legal acts on human rights and freedoms, and you can conclude on the basis of this report that the citizens of the Ombudsman institutions have considerable confidence. It is therefore necessary to work continuously to promote the role of the Ombudsman, as well as to inform the public of the work and the way it works. Although according to a report by the civil defender in the area of pension insurance, a smaller number of complaints about the severity of the problem are visible, I am sure they require more attention. We point out that the share of elderly people in the total population in Croatia is more than 17% and demographic projections say that in 10 years, over 20% of this very occasion I would like to remind these very indicators that the Club of Representatives of HSU has twice referred to the Assembly procedure the proposal of the Law on Advocates for Retired People and the Elderly, unfortunately the proposal is not accepted and the Club of Representatives of HSU continues to hold a legitimate proposal for the adoption of the concept of a specialised Advocate for Retired Persons. The justification of this proposal is seen in the fact that this is an extremely sensitive category of citizens. A specialised lawyer would warn the competent authorities of pension insurance... To the government of the Republic of Croatia and to refer legislative and other incentives to the Croatian Parliament in order to improve the condition of persons of older age and pensioners. [[The speaker doesn't understand because of the quick reading.]] The Ombudsman for pensioners and elderly would represent a specialised institution that would promote and protect their rights. Here I would like to highlight a problem of violence in society as a global problem, and especially of family violence, but often it happens that fundamental human rights and freedoms are threatened, often involving the victims of an elderly and their members. I also need to highlight the health care of older people who do not bounce away from previous examples. At present, the problem is an unfavourable proportion of pensioners and employees one employee versus one pensioner versus 1.20 employees. Such a situation was created due to the departure of a significant number of pensioners not by their own free will but by bankruptcy, failure of companies, technical surpluses, privatisation irregularities, etc., and a number is still waiting on HZZ's first condition for retirement. All of these are the reasons for the situation in the pension system where the average pension is only 40% of the average salary that sets us among the lowest in Europe. In all words, the justification of a specialised lawyer and institution is not questionable at all. But aware of the current economic situation, we suggest that we consider the possibility of appointing deputy attorney for pensioners and persons of older age within the Office of the Public Attorney. The club of HSU representatives will accept a 2011 report on the work of the Ombudsman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8658	Thank you very much, Mr. Fortuna Vishni. The next Club of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament is SDSS and respected representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8659	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Attorney General, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament and MPs at the Croatian Parliament. The SDSS representative club has been following the report and the work of the Ombudsman this year because of its work and its reporting in this Assembly on complaints of citizens to the work of state authorities and government institutions is a special subject of interest to us as SDSS because most of the issues faced over the past years by a public defender or in our report for the past year we, as representatives of the SDSS, are also facing ourselves as representatives of the SDSS. First of all, I would like to say that this year's report is one of the most appropriate and best-produced reports that come from any similar institutions to the Croatian Parliament. Both in terms of systematisation and in terms of illustration and also in terms of analysis of cases and recommendations that should be the basis for the work of this Assembly, and at the same time should be the basis for the Assembly to be held before the Government and the Authorities. Two things I would like to point out on the basis of this report before I move on to specific cases or specific areas, firstly, that, based on the presentation of the situation in the past 5 years, it can be seen that, in fact, the decline recorded in 2008 in the number of cases in which 1560 were cases in relation to the Ombudsman's staff compared to 1878 for 2007, over 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2011, the complaint was raised to the Ombudsman. This growth would not be said to be spectacular but it is persistent and clearly suggests a trend that authorities or authorities do not actually refer not only to the reports of the vehicular lawyer, but also to the reasons why citizens address the occupier at the same time. In this regard, in particular, cases relating to the judiciary, concerning persons deprived of liberty, and concerning working and official relations, are represented. They are actually at the top of a number of cases faced by the Office of the Attorney General and people are making different complaints. The following are cases concerning housing care, restoration rights and construction, spatial arrangements and social care and health care and family care. This means that on the one hand we are recording that the judiciary is being reformed, and at the same time we are recording that the number of cases and the number of cases in which people complain to the Ombudsman is actually increasing. How is that possible? Well, it is probably possible because we are fulfilling some kind of homework towards the EU in some places. In other words, it is possible by meeting some basic requirements but not by changing working philosophy and not by changing the work approach. How is it possible for the length of the proceedings to be such that it is still one of the fundamental reasons why people are complaining to the attorney general. As it is possible in other words to continue to violate the principle of a reasonable trial, how it is possible that people continue to lack confidence in judicial judgments and to continue to complain in the manner in which judgments were passed and in the way in which judgment was actually ruled. Obviously it is possible because, apart from some higher levels, other than some procedural levels, nothing important has changed in our judiciary. In other words, it hasn't changed in human philosophy, it hasn't changed in humane ethics and it hasn't changed in humane efficiency. And for that reason, we don't see any other reason at the SDSS club, but in the fact that some kind of momentum is regaining, some kind of lethargy, and some kind of re-determination of the judicial authorities in relation to their legal and constitutional obligations. Secondly, as regards cases that have been being dragged for over 20 years, such as cases of rights to reconstruction and such as cases of housing rights. My colleagues and colleagues, you have probably all read this report and no doubt then found examples of how and how some of these cases are dealt with. A particularly illustrating case, which the attorney general reiterates, is the case of citizen M.M. which until the war in Zagreb had an apartment and in the northern part of Croatia had a holiday house. In a short time, she was both left without one or the other, and that house was moved into the house by a person who was allegedly a Croatian defender who later turned out to be not a Croatian defender. But of course, the authorities did not prevent this person from being granted the right to rebuild and provide housing in one city east of Zagreb, better said in Novska, which the person did not use but received. But at the same time, from the moment she moved into the apartment, she didn't want to leave M.M.'s apartment and house until 2007. When it comes to a holiday house, the holiday house was not only unauthorized but unauthorized investment and extended the house from 30 squares to some average size of holiday houses at a time when they were built in the 1970s and possibly in the '80s, to 100 and some squares. And so at one level, the M.M. She got her property back, I'm talking about the house, about the holiday house, and on the second level, the person who was a usurper, who broke the law on a number of grounds from the court got the verdict that the owner of the cottage had to pay 300 thousand kuna compensation for the invested money in the building of a house for which there was no paper, had no necessary basis. This case is therefore a shame, multiple shame, multiple shame that someone is representing himself as a defender and is not, but rather a common usurper and a criminal and a multiple disgrace because he treats this same usurper and criminal state as if he were a defender and the competent ministry has been acting as if he were a defender for years and he is not. And according to the M.M., it's about a woman's sex person who lives on 500 kuna social aid, who has no more apartment, who has his property for us, or now has property, but as if he doesn't because he can't have it, he can't use it because he's in a devasted state, he's not taking any of what the attorney general is proposing, which is that the state takes that property, that house as its property, and the person M.M. That's an adequate apartment for housing. No, the state won't do it. Why, because this country is not interested in justice, because this country has no interest in justice and because unfortunately in this country they are not based on justice, because if they were, then this thing wouldn't have happened for 20 and a few years. And since it is a member of the Serb community, then, of course, there is an additional reason why someone understands that the state is actually acting in justice because that is how it wakes up when they blame its nationality. I would like to thank the attorney general for saying this case once again, and I would like to thank those who, as representatives of the government, tried to do something to change it but failed. Why, because there's no state where it's supposed to be, there's one where it shouldn't be, there's one in the hands of those who shouldn't have it, and it's not in the service of those who made it. I could now move on to the rights of Croatian defenders, those whose rights are indeed denied, not those who have usurped their rights, but I will leave it to colleagues and colleagues who know it better than I do but also deserve our attention. As far as citizenship is concerned, it is absolutely unacceptable for colleagues and colleagues to deny people the right to citizenship without any explanation in the housing programme. And that because they are deprived of their right to citizenship or because they are denied the right to the status of a permanent resident foreigner, they cannot actually exercise the right to housing that has already been provided by the competent ministry. Two female persons from Slavonski Brod, aged 2 years, 58 and 60, cannot find a solution to the housing that they received after 20 and a few years of waiting to receive the right to return the apartment they did not get from. Now they've got a replacement apartment. I can't even get that replacement apartment because SOA says they pose a threat to the Republic of Croatia. In what? No person is in any way recorded in court or police registers as violent, criminal, or anything like that. But it poses a danger to the Republic of Croatia. For what? So because of that, I'm going to say it very openly and directly, because what we've been doing for 20 years - with the left hand, you take the right hand. One authority gives you the right, and the other body takes away your right. Shame! I have no other comment. Shame! I'm ashamed to sit in the Parliament, and things like that happen. Because they didn't take anything apart from anyone else who took someone else's, and they accepted not to get theirs but to take theirs, and the competent authority that should worry about who deserved to have a citizenship that no one has, which should take care of national security in different aspects, is playing the force on national security on those who pose absolutely no danger. On the contrary, they pose a moral challenge for this country. It's not legal, it's moral.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8660	Bring in the end, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8661	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to say one more thing, first of all, about people who are in prison, whether it's Leprechaun or others who live in overcrowded conditions, poor health conditions, poor communication opportunities with people who care about them, their safety or who guard them, but we'll leave it for another chance. But I'd just like to get this over with. There are many who are in prisons, as can be seen from the Ombudsman's report. They're overcrowded in prisons. But there's a lot more of those who break the law, don't follow the law, and their job would be to work by the law and break it daily against people who shouldn't absolutely break it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8662	Thank you, Your Honor. We're moving on to an individual debate of deputies for 10 minutes. The first for discussion was reported by a respected representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8663	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Mr. Police Attorney. Here is after this inspired and sincere speech by my colleague Pupovac, and frankly there is little left to say, but I will be free and relate to something that my colleague Pupovac was talking about, which is the fact that in some Croatian prisons two prisoners are coming to one bed. That they live in the condition that their sanitary node is in the middle of a cell, that they eat on their beds and treat them almost like we're still in some dark Middle Ages. The democracy and justice of a society may be best valued by how they treat those who are punished by society, who are sanctioned by society. If that's the scale for the Republic of Croatia, then that's another criterion we fell on. Because today's treatment in Croatian prisons isn't punishment, it's not rehabilitation, it's when we look at the report by the attorney general, it's abuse. And that's something we have to put an end to. However, the Ombudsman's report is not only a report on prisons, it is a reflection of the situation in Croatian society, one of the views of the situation in Croatian society, as was the State Audit Report. And that's a report that, dear colleagues and colleagues, unfortunately, tells us we've fallen. That we haven't laid any standards. I'm particularly sad when I read in the Attorney General's report that he doesn't respond to his memos, that he doesn't respond to rushes. That's embarrassing. And without any sanctions. I'll go back to the State Audit report again, and there we've seen a situation where the State Audit has been warning for years, and nothing is happening. We have the same thing here. So what do we set up these institutions in the Republic of Croatia when no one respects them? And that is why I will suggest that, on the first occasion of the amendment of the Law on the Ombudsman, provisions should be introduced which will be sanctioned in violation and punish those who do not supply requested information to the Advocate General. I think that this way we might give some incentive to those civil servants who aren't doing their job. Because you ask yourself a question if an institution like a public defender of the state doesn't answer how we can expect to answer an ordinary citizen. But let's go back to the report. Except for the prison, I'd like to point out the police question. In his report, the Ombudsman pointed out a lack of civilian surveillance over the police. But not only that, the Ombudsman pointed out the lack of action, i.e. in regulating internal control issues. Because if the police are the ones who care about respecting order and controlling citizens, then we must be as citizens convinced that there is someone who will control and oversee the work of the police. However, with the personnel involved in this police force, especially in the last year pushed, promoted without any criteria, I fear that whatever legislative solutions we bring will not be a lot of salvation. Furthermore, I would warn that the Ombudsman has been warning for years about various problems in Croatian society, and as I said, no one respects them. Here I will boast a little bit, for example, the Ombudsman has been warning the problem of civil status for years, or a personal name, and I will point out that a respected minister of administration has announced that here is at least one segment that we haven't solved in years by changing the Personal Name Act very recently. However, not to prolong the Ombudsman is one institution which is tasked with caring for the rights and interests of citizens, to ensure that their rights are respected. The occupier as such, regardless of what the HDZ colleagues say ex-lege must be the opposition of every authority, it is his task. His job is to tell every authority what's right, but first of all, what's wrong, where the government is wrong. And that's why it's the Attorney General's job for every government to stand behind their backs and blow on their necks. Not because he likes it or doesn't like it, but because it's his job to make this blow to the neck make the government better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8664	Replication to this presentation is reported by colleague Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8665	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I fully agree with the position of the esteemed representative of the coat of arms that the Attorney General should in some way always be the opposition, always blow, as he said about the neck of every government. However, I must say, that is not so because it is precisely the report that shows that he was blowing on one authority's neck, and that he rather praises the other authority because I could quote it after the change in power in late 2011 and so on. This increased the number of state officials, but reduced the total number of political appointed positions in the state administration system, which is not true, and even more new ones were created. Those changes may be assessed in part as justified. So justice is what happened, in any case, made it possible to legitimize and legitimize the power so far, so it explains why. This political appointments by the executive official on the other hand were necessary, I stress, in times of crisis when urgent changes are needed from key places of politically appointed persons and other political options. Therefore, it is not true that it is only for one, but for this authority, to smoke, but to smoke for all authorities, but to smoke one by the neck, and the other not to smoke. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8666	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8667	Thank you. Well, dear colleague Reiner, it seems to me that you and I haven't read the same report. No matter what the subject matter of this report is in 2011, Mr. Pugid's Attorney General has assessed more than correctly here some of the bill proposals that our government is proposing. For example, speaking of the Police Law, he said that some of the shortcomings there were not removed, of course in the draft that was yet to be proposed. And that's his job, and that's why we don't blame him, that's why we don't get mad at him, we thank him for that because he's just in the course of law making suggested what's wrong there and he's allowed us to change it, so we can adapt it before the law that would possibly be bad in that part comes into effect. And that's why I can't agree with you. And only when we've been discussing it since 2012 will you see that even then, Mr. Pugid's Attorney General will be quite oppositional, but he must be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8668	Thank you. And now we're going to hear the debate of distinguished colleague Sandra Petrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8669	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, esteemed promoter with associates, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I would like to thank the Ombudsman for the report in which he gives, in my opinion, a critical and realistic assessment of the state of constitutional and legal rights of citizens in front of public authorities, no matter how painful it may seem. The Ombudsman, the Ombudsman, is a legal definition of an institution that protects the constitutional and legal rights of citizens in proceedings before the state administration and bodies that have public authority, and bodies of local and regional self-government. However, despite a valid opinion, the Ombudsman has no authority to protect the constitutional and legal rights of citizens decided by courts in civil, litigious, extraparious and criminal matters. Although I believe that according to the number of representations of citizens coming to the work of the judicial authorities, it is precisely the most requested service, so to speak. If the Advocate General does not, as a rule, have the power to act in matters in which administrative or judicial proceedings are under way, it is fair that, in the event that the administrative procedure takes an unwarranted length of time, the Ombudsman may intervene with a recommendation for a speedy resolution of citizens' demands. As for the unwarranted length of the proceedings, I agree with my colleague Grbino that criminal sanctions should be imposed on the persons responsible for the subject for an unwarranted period of time, and I will also point out some specific cases in the course of the debate, and I will be able to show you more clearly how far this goes. By studying and assessing individual cases of the threat to the rights of citizens who have been committed to them by the authorities of the state administration and bodies with public authority, we can conclude that we cannot exactly boast about the rule of law and legal certainty to the extent that we would like to do so. By considering other issues for, of interest in the protection of constitutional and legal rights, which is based not only on this report but also on other sources of knowledge of the irregular work of administrative authorities and bodies with public authority, I can only conclude that there are many more cases but these cases do not appear before the Ombudsman. We can say that it's a kind of gray zone, a grey number of violations of the constitutional and legal rights of citizens in this segment. This report also shows that the critical points in the justice system, the pension system, the right to rebuild, the rights of persons deprived of liberty and the area of construction and the environment are critical points in the justice system, the pension system, the right to rebuild. However, regardless of these critical points, I believe that every employee in the public authorities who is recognised in any part of this report should be asked how much in their actions the citizen is denied in their rights, if not in the content of the resolution, and at least in the speed of resolving the administrative matter. In the total number of items received in 2011 I note that the ratio of solved cases is 76% to 24% in favour of those solved. What concerns is not the ratio of solved and unsolved cases, but the complexity and problem of unresolved cases and the dynamics of their resolution. I remind them there are as many as 453. The haste and silence of the competent authorities in responding to the enquiries was too much, in even 173 cases there were 1 to 5 rushes. I ask my colleagues and colleagues, I ask the Attorney General, and I ask the public, what kind of employee is the body of the public authority who, along with the file, is receiving 5 rushes within a year and is being properly deafened. And what does it tell citizens and the Ombudsman himself about the credibility of public authority? I remind you that in as many as 60 cases, even after sending these rushes, there is no answer. We can only imagine how much such an unscheduled body and an inert body would need to take action or complete the procedure with which it is able to resolve if it is not able to react to an adjudicator's emergency with a question about the state of the case. I'm guessing that before the arraignment of the Ombudsman, there was a number of rushes by the same party. The main complaints in 2011 since 1900 have been received by as many as 397 refer to the judiciary. Since the Ombudsman has no power to influence, and in the Assembly as a legislator, I do not want to do so because of the principle of trioing the authorities, I will say just a few examples from the law that we can relate to this topic when we are already talking about the problem of the right to a timely settlement of the administrative case which, among other things, is the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. Namely, a number of cases that I had personally entrusted with the resolution were required to be sent to a dozen rushes within two years in which only an appointment of the debate was asked to continue. There are a number of cases where, in spite of the repeated reference of the jury, the judge has been deaf for a year and at the very invitation to make a verdict after the main debate has been concluded, which far exceeds all legal measures to comply with the deadline for drawing up and dispatching court decisions. Not only is this a violation of the duties of a person in the hands of a public authority instrument but it is a lack of consciousness, that these procedures violate the constitutional and legal rights of citizens. A similar situation occurred in the case that we now return to the subject and the case before one ministry. It happened to be the Ministry of the Sea, tourism, transport and development. Namely, it has been two years since the case was sent, and even after a large number of phone calls and written rushes, no decision has been made. These are, for example, cases in which a party who has no reason to be satisfied at all with its treatment before the authorities did not appeal to the Advocate General. As such, it enters that gray number I was talking about earlier. As far as concrete civil rights violations are concerned, it is interesting and recognised in the report by the Ombudsman as a problematic issue of receiving into Croatian citizenship or a request for regulation of residence in the Republic of Croatia. I know of several examples of unfounded refusal to accept Croatian citizenship even though some of these persons who have been deprived of their rights live in Croatia for over 30 years have met all the conditions for obtaining citizenship. A particularly interesting case has been completed and the case of Croatian rapper Eda Maja, who finally won the same in the summer of 2010 after a long struggle for Croatian citizenship. I remind you that Edo Mother has lived in Croatia since he was 16 years old and has entrusted the Croatian estradius with many things, and primarily social critical awareness in his lyrics. The next and last problem I look back at in the debate is the right person with no freedom. They are linked to the overcrowding of the prison, which we could also read something from the report and in the debate of colleagues of the Grbin and in the debate of colleagues of Pupovac. The average overcrowding of prisons in Croatia reaches 150% overall while in the Karlovac prison, the retraction is an incredible 220%. A similar situation is in Bjelovar, Osijek and Varazdin. So imagine, even though this may not be the hottest example, it's closest to us. Imagine that there are 332 people in this assembly each day instead of 151 persons who would be working conditions. That's the situation in certain prisons 24 hours a day. In 2009, I would say a bit of a visionary plan for improving the prison system in 2009 to 2014. The development of Croatian prison capacities I think must continue and the conditions in prisons must be reduced to an acceptable measure. And I remind you that during the review of the conditions in certain prisons, the Ombudsman found that prisoners often do not have an adequate place to eat, eat on the bed, and eat food with their fingers and teeth. Also in prisons and sanitary nodes are often not separated from other spaces that I quote "temporarily cause intense unpleasant smells". I support this report as well as any further activities of the occupier in the current year, and I hope that there will be a positive shift in the next report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8670	Thank you. The debate will now include a respected representative of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8671	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman, Mr. Attorney-General and Deputy Attorney-General, dear colleagues and colleagues. I volunteered for the debate, in fact, most of all because in a few sentences, a few minutes, I actually gave my support to the attorney general, the office, and all the things that the attorney general has done with his associates, or at least one part of it, and he's been trying to do all these past years. Since I had been in this House for a long time, I have therefore had the opportunity to read a lot of reports from the Ombudsman and discuss them, of course, either at the plenary session, or on individual committees. And unfortunately, I'd say so. So far, neither this Assembly nor the governments so far have I said, nor have they understood, nor have they wanted to understand the role of the attorney general, and what that means when the public defender is the authority of the Croatian Parliament to protect what is fundamental in the Croatian Constitution, so to protect and promote human rights and freedoms. In fact, all those years ago, we have witnessed the fact that the rulings did not accept reports from the attorney general. More or less, I would call it that and literally vote in this House. And what we have warned all these years is this, unfortunately, also shown through the 2011 Report that, regardless of certain restrictions that the Ombudsman has in relation to the state authorities, the authorities of the local self-government that neither the recommendations given by the civil defender nor the often repeated requests to meet, finds with the competent minister or some of the ministry have come across closed doors and misunderstandings. Well, then I'm actually going to say that today didn't surprise me with the HDZ Club's position that it didn't accept the report for the first time openly not to accept the ideologically colored report by the Attorney General for the past year. I hope that all of us who have been preparing for the debate have read the entire report, and then on the pages, let's say, at the end where the evaluations and the recommendations that are given can read a certain criticism of certain changes to the laws that this government has been doing too. So, as one warning, I do not view it as a public defender's ideological approach now to the already ruling coalition but rather as one warning and certain recommendations, especially in this sense, to further work and find the most favourable solutions to depolitisation of the state administration and appointment through the system of state administration. In that sense, as so far, the attorney general will have my personal support and I say I really hope and believe that from now on, no matter what governments are in power, in a completely different way, they will relate to the other and to what it says in the report by the Ombudsman. Both ok and this year, the government has accepted the report, and there is one sentence in it that is common to say that all recommendations, remarks and similar instructions to all the competent authorities and ministries, but I believe that at least this convocation of the Croatian Parliament and this ruling coalition will know in the right way to ask the Government to, when it is necessary and to show what is required through the Ombudsman's report and that, ultimately, in cooperation with the Ombudsman, we will see later when we discuss other defences also in cooperation with them and their recommendations, correct certain things that will eventually be needed through and individual legal solutions. Secondly, in this debate, I would like to use the opportunity to once again support the Advocate General in his bid to strengthen the Office of the Ombudsman, to strengthen how it has been written in recommendations coming from the European Commission during the negotiating process, so as to strengthen capacity in every respect and administrative and financial office. I hope that, with the new law that I have, as far as I have the information being prepared or is already practically at the end of the new Law on the Ombudsman, that this time, unlike last year, when it is really in one way, I would say this no matter what the procedure took several months, but in the end everything that was proposed not only from the level of opposition but also from the level of experts but also from the level of NGOs did not accept that this year before 1st of July will be respected and that the new Law on the Civilian Ombudsman will, first of all, further strengthen hopefully this capacity but also the powers which, as a public defender, should have in relation to the state bodies or that, in fact, by his work but also by this return to say fitback, which will primarily come from the level of government or from other institutions, that indeed, after so many years, it will be achieved and in the right sense of the fact that the public defender, we will be able to do so in thisway , and in thisway. So I welcome this report once again. There's no time, a lot of things that are inside are being repeated practically for years, and I'm saying it's precisely because so far it hasn't been considered that all of the things that are being followed by certain remarks, grades, recommendations are even obliged to be made. In time, I hope that practice will be changed. I'm hanging in there.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8672	I thank my colleague Sobol. We will now hear the debate of the distinguished representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8673	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The esteemed occupier with his associates, ladies and gentlemen of the council. Well, here's a colleague and colleagues before me have already said a lot about this report in general, and they've pointed to some problems, but let me maybe repeat some things, look at some of them specifically and draw some particular emphasis. Namely, what's in this report to read is the longevity of the proceedings. That many actions are extremely long, long-term beyond measure, and we know that one of the human rights is the right to trial within a reasonable period of time. I understand that the attorney general does not deal with disputes before the courts, because in that case the courts are in charge, but regardless, many of the actions conducted before the state administration and over the authorities of the state administration are extremely long. And for what? Because of the unscheduledness of the state institutions' unacceptable impunity. So even the names are listed by the ministries that run I'd say that hall of shame hall of shame by its impeccableness. And it says the Ministry of Environment and Construction, Ministry of Regional Development, Ministry of Justice, Ministry of Administration, Ministry of Agriculture. Ladies and gentlemen of the MPs, I think it is a shame that the institutions of one state, therefore, among which the occupier as an institution of the Republic of Croatia are prepared to ignore the other institutions so harshly, especially by the fact that the occupier has an extremely important role as an ombudsman and not only in the Croatian system but also in the systems of all democratic states. Furthermore, local self-government units are listed which are also very insupervised, inactive and slow when responding to requests and haste by the Ombudsman. What I would suggest to Mr. Public Attorney is that in the next report, we see what units of local self-government are, to make a list of the embarrassment of those who don't do their job from ministries to local self-government units. I believe that this will now change in the system of ministries that in the 2012 report we will have no more a hall of shame than a hall of praise or those who perform their work on an up-to-date basis. But I also ask that the same criteria apply to local self-government units. Because I think both parliamentary representatives and the public have the right to know what units of local self-government are so harshly breaking their obligations. Something I'd like to say more about this report is recommendations. So, after each chapter and analysis of several cases, the Ombudsman makes some recommendations. What I asked Mr. Public Advocate and the Committee, and I don't think it would be bad if, in my last presentation and repeat, how effective these recommendations are, in fact, how much they are respected by the institutions of the state, because I think such an analysis, so the recommendations that the Ombudsman can serve us as a legislator, so as the body that makes laws in the Republic of Croatia, but also the government that makes bill proposals, could therefore serve as guidelines in the adoption of new and amendments to the old laws, because it is the very institution of the Ombudsman that can first warn some of the shortcomings, shortcomings, abuses or distorted interpretations of certain laws. It is also clear that some recommendations can and cannot be respected as such, at least in the current legal framework. For example, in education and education, the Ombudsman concluded that most of the complaints are about study costs, however, the decision on the cost of an academic year, how much the student is left to do by the Financial Autonomy Act and regulations on the criteria of enrolment to individual institutions of the university, i.e. higher universities and similar institutions that operate. So now we cannot speak at least under the applicable law, since higher education institutions are also guaranteed financial autonomy among other things, we cannot talk about such changes. In the end, colleagues and colleagues before me talked about embarrassing conditions in our prison system, so where the capacitation of certain prisons is even 220%. Well, I wouldn't have owed it, so they're all about the terms, but I'd say next. So if we compare this treatment of persons deprived of liberty with the treatment we know that some former senior officials on the right side of the political compass had in Remetinco we can conclude that economic crimes give the possibility of more exclusive treatment in prisons than crimes against life and the body. What does that tell citizens who observe such an unequal act? It tells them that not everyone under the law is equal, that some still have a treatment that is more equal than others, even when they are deprived of freedom. I use this opportunity to draw attention to consistent application of equality before the law either at large or in prison. So I would suggest that everyone be treated equally, that they all have their own apartments, or that they are all in cells that are overcrowded because we cannot, Croatia must not be a state equal, but must be a state equal before the law and those who are deprived of freedom. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8674	Thank you, colleague Hajdukovic. I now call on the honourable representative, Branko Vuksic, to present his debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8675	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Attorney General, the esteemed associates, colleagues and colleagues. In 1978, a fellow parliamentary representative, Daniel Mondekar, was born, after which he probably went to kindergarten and went to school, completed some colleges, and came to the assembly benches. That same year a few months earlier, another man named Emil Römer began a court dispute. Mr. Mondekar, to whom I apologize for taking him, but I found him in '78. The year was born, so he came to the assembly bench, he did a lot of things in his life, and Mr Emil Römer started a court dispute that runs the day today and didn't start from a dead end. Is that a shame, it's a crime. It is a disgrace to all shame, it is the second-oldest court case in the Croatian state. Which so far has been done by all Croatian institutions to ensure that the court dispute has not been completed for 34 years. The older one, I think, is 35 or 36 years old or even older. Such litigation has progressed. When I studied and held a press conference with Römer, then I saw how much suffering there was for people who had long litigation. That's not what every injustice is saying, so it's a dark and long court dispute. This is an injustice that seems to a man for 34 years with no chance because a man in his late years is that this court dispute he lives, the end of a court dispute. With this procedure, it seems to me that the attorney general is also familiar. They've met all the ministers, the judges and the Supreme Court, the Constitutional Court, they've all met. When I spoke to the minister, the current justice minister he said it was a shame. When we marked that date did not appear and did not receive after Mr. Römer and did not give a message, which should give a message to the public that it should not be done so. There are also, in Western democracies it is a shame if the work dispute is being conducted for more than six months. We've had labor disputes for a decade. It's always said inappropriate in places like this to state their examples and I'll say, I'm running a work dispute for the eighth year, it'll be the end of the eighth year. That's criminal. It's only one document that needs a student in the first year of law can assess whether it's legal notice or illegal termination. What's going on is corruption. In this report, the Ombudsman actually made a great report, in the chapters, a report that points to all the diseases of society, the biggest disease of society, and which hurts Croatian citizens the most is the Croatian judiciary, the ineffectiveness of Croatian justice. And I'm the only one who would disagree with the Honorable Attorney General's sentence that the situation in the judiciary is still not as good as he said. No, the situation is catastrophic. The second thing that is worrying, catastrophic, is the criminal attitude of Croatian institutions towards the public defender. The relation of Croatian institutions, the ministries towards the Ombudsman is an indicator of the relationship to the Croatian Parliament. When they ignore the Ombudsman they ignore the High House above which it is itself, the first Croatian president, God, would say. It means that the institutions, what we said yesterday, mean the institutions of the government, or the government, ignore the Parliament. That's not the problem with the attorney general, that's the problem, colleagues and colleagues, all of us. It should have a really fat face when it comes to us here in the Parliament, and even the authorities I'm going to defend for the first time to hire my staff, and 17 years, it seems that the only card and the only license to get into the state service is the party's membership card. It really should have a thick cheek and as if nothing had happened, as if Croatia was Denmark, as if Croatia were Sweden, as if Croatia were Finland saying you hired as many as 200, 300, 400 people. It's hard to find in public administrations a man who doesn't have a HDZ membership card. Then, the Office of the Police Attorney, who is our representative, should agree someone had already said to step up, team up. We should perhaps be at the service of the citizens by respecting him, and we should prove in this composition and opposition and the position of respecting the attorney general may also make the district offices of the attorneys, strong. What about after this report by the Attorney General in the Parliament? So far, most of the time, when the occupier was giving reports was mostly accepted, it seems to me that every time the report was accepted, and what happened? He also wrote another report in which he found the status quo. I don't think that's going to be a year from now when we discuss in this high house a report by the attorney general, the defeat of the attorney general if that happens, it's going to be a defeat for all of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8676	Thank you, colleague Vuksic. His 10 minutes for an individual debate will now be used by distinguished representative Josip Kregar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8677	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Attorney General, ladies and gentlemen. I was thinking of starting my exhibition by giving general features of the report because it is a report that is fair, which is true, which is excellently maintained by the real situation, not a report that would be some kind of superficial review of the problem that exists and which will sooner or later be solved. This report reflects reality. However, the debate has led me to begin the exhibition in another way. The objectivity of the report and the objectivity of the Advocate General has been questioned here. And I want to say, and I am sorry that Mr. Babic does not have here, that it is wrong and that it is a person characterized by an extremely fair relationship with his mission and service, a prominent justice in the evaluation of reality, courage in expression and performance which is evidence not now but in the past and I believe, and I am sorry that it is announced, that Mr. Malcic deserves a general recognition of this house for everything he has done, a team before he announced and completed his term of office. Another element of personality I would like to highlight because it will be related to the evaluation of the report. In performing his function often a man becomes incomparable. He has shown here a high degree of social intelligence and concern for the rights of those most often mentioned in exhibitions or newspaper inscriptions. He shows concern and understanding for those who are deprived of rights, sometimes illegal because there is no foothold to help them, and they are victims of various cases or general social development. Let me point out three things in this report in particular and comment. First it concerns, which is mentioned several times, the judiciary. Do you realize that this is now the last and even the only lever in which we are discussing justice? Independence, judicial independence has led to a paradox. If we couldn't, we were banned, there's no institutions, there's no reason to talk about justice. And you know from contact with living people, with your voters, how much injustice they feel and how little trust in the judiciary they have. And that's the main problem that this report very plastically, look at the data on page 8, it shows. And this is that although the number of cases does not practically increase, the number of cases involving the judiciary has increased by 80% in the reporting periods. This shows that although people no longer have faith in institutions, even though they know that God’s public defender can’t help them, they feel so much injustice, and they have no one to complain to, they feel untrustworthy of an institutional procedure that otherwise defends their rights in judicial proceedings, and they address the Ombudsman. It's bad doing more consequences. First of all, it is also the consequence of the fact that the judiciary feels independent, but regardless of the consequences of its action. They consider their work, unlike the attorney general, to be an enforcement of the law, but an execution that is often ineffective, late and unfair. I was not aware of the extent of this problem, not to the reading of this report, but to the fact that in this House, I was betrothed with letters concerning the judiciary. It's amazing what kind of case it is and what's going through it is I believed in the usual and strict procedure of institutional control in the judiciary. This is something we need to worry about, I hope the ministry will take care of when changing the Law on the Ombudsman and allowing for a higher level of intervention and control. The other thing was that the predecessors pointed out, so I'm not going to comment on it that much, and it's about the state of the prisons. No, it's not just a term here in this report to say social welfare for the otherwise endangered category of people. Often people say they are in prison because they deserve it, they repay their debt to society, but they must be the same and identical in their position. So people are most concerned that the accused criminals walk free with the rat, the truth sometimes, walk freely, live in their home, and when they are in prison, they have a privileged position with which I can think that the Karlovac is not so far away from Zagreb and that the detainees may be transported from Karlovac to Zagreb. But that on one bed as is said to come two prisoners it is unacceptable, it does not meet the standard not of Europe but of Afghanistan. I'm not going to defend the prisoners even though it's a nice thing for a public defender, but the fact that they don't have medical adequate, medical care, especially psychological help, is ringing the alarm because prisons are turning into penitentiary facilities, and not in places where they are resocialized, so they get appropriate psychological and other help, it's only. And the third thing I want to say for a short time is the fact that there is another category pointed out by Mr. Cain, the cleanest one mentioned in this report, which is the tenants in the nationalized apartments. There is a forgotten and quiet subject, but it is a topic which is a moral obligation of the Parliament, not a moral one, and here the laws were passed with explanations and explanations that follow soon effective measures that will solve the problem of housing such as the owner of the dwellings, it did not happen. I know it's not personal on my conscience, but it's pressing like one of my own, one of the great social classes that's in an impossible situation. That's where we immobilized one great social property, made a great deal of evil and injustice to people. Let me finish. The occupier finally cites one whole series of proposals, these are proposals that are also obligations for us MPs if we support this report. I didn't find any suggestions that you wouldn't support or think about. I support this report more than it's just not one single assessment of the situation, so one set of measures to fix the situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8678	Thank you. Dear colleague Kregar. I call on now the esteemed representative Tatjana Šimac- Bonačić to be involved in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8679	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. So here's this report, this report is actually a real picture of human rights, and as my predecessor Professor Craig said, it's a true report. Of course, the truth of many pains, the truth of many bothers us, so we saw a negative one, one failure to accept such a report by system said so. On the other hand, this report also shows a significant level of trust from our citizens who have acquired into the institution of the Ombudsman. Citizens certainly feel more secure, knowing that their rights will be protected not only through the actions of courts where it is apparent that they have a certain amount of disappointment, but also because of interventions by the attorney general. It is also visible to many problems, problems from the impunity of the authorities to respond, that I do not repeat myself now because my predecessors have spoken of it, and despite the haste that Mr. Pussy's attorney sent, there are still 60 items left to which the answer has not been received at all. And I hope that, that, in fact, I am expressing hope for better urgency in the next report. There have also been cases where no legal norm applies. But I wonder here what about those who don't know the right norm, who they're not familiar with, who they can't address, actually who they can address for illegality in the work of the state administration, who don't know how their rights might be obtained. This is why the institution of the occupier is worthy of ours and of our fellow citizens. The table you're stating shows that in these four years, the number of applications has increased to these 1900 complaints in the past year. A large number of applications were related to the work of the judiciary. I'm going to point out here, I'm going to point out very often the bad decisions of divorce cases which, unfortunately, make a lot of such decisions badly complicated and such broken relationships where unfortunately, they're always the victim of children. The question is, should such judges be further educated to work on such cases? Furthermore, the big problem of free legal assistance that my predecessors have highlighted is that today's practice and procedure is very complex precisely because it often gives up before it even goes into demand. A large number of complaints are also on labour rights, social care, we even have complaints about pedagogical education, education, higher education and science that have started to appear in the last two years of the report. We are also witnessing the very difficult situation of the poorest, but it would repeat what Mr. Public Advocate wrote that said: "The senior crisis, the economic recession has deepened even further the great social differences that occurred at the time of conversion and privatisation." That's why I think it's crucial, the key battle is just being fought so that citizens who are affected by the crisis feel that the system is working, and in these segments there's also one hope here through the attorney general and yet it protects them. I'd still actually take it out here if it were actually here to indicate a number of cases in which the provisions of one law conflict with the provisions of another law. The occupier pointed out this, however, the issues remain unresolved and continue to be repeated. Then I would point out here the actions of the attorney general of the workers who protected themselves from abuse at work, because we know that there is no law that will act in that direction. It is yet to enter into force in 1.1.2013. However, the Ombudsman remains the only hope that indicates that he is actually looking at provisions relating to a violation of personality rights. I would point out here even if we were to wonder what the results are when the occupier can specifically help someone, so I would point out one example here when he actually returned to the workplace of an employee at the Ministry of the Interior because of the degradation of civil servants by moving exactly the rebellion of the occupier. Here we have one positive outcome. The question of the deinstitutionalisation of mental patients was then asked, and there is an apostrophysed problem that has not been solved. I hope we can solve that problem too. Finally, the question arises as to the exercise of the right to karitative visits to persons deprived of liberty and where the Ombudsman actually points to the right to visit that is interpreted in a poor way. In fact, it is interpreted as an inmate and as the highest of children. So I'll give you an example. By law, twice a month and a holiday can be visited, and minors can visit each week. However, up to 14 years of age, a minor should also have an adult. And now if the prisoner goes every weekend, his child comes, so the maximum number of visits has been used, and that's exactly why other family members can't come. If one comes twice a month, the number of visits to the child is reduced. However, it is not prescribed anywhere in the law that the number of visits of the child is limited because the number of visits of the child is, in fact, his basic right of the child. I join, of course, all those who have praised the work of Mr. General Attorney General and I accept this 2011 report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8680	Thank you, too, Your Honor. Next up for a ten-minute debate, Honorable representative Nadica Jelas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8681	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the esteemed Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues, MPs and MPs. In his report, the Ombudsman devoted a lot of space to the social care system and I would like to refer to that area in my debate. In fact, the Ombudsman told the system that it is too centralised and that it needs to be decentralised, therefore both functionally and fiscally but also deinstitutionalised. And I completely agree with that, and I fully support it. He pointed out some irregularities in the conduct of units of local self-government and that the economic crisis has made it impossible to adopt some strategic documents and necessary social care institutes, but that it has slowed down the implementation of some planned measures and, of course, it is not good in view of the increasingly pronounced disseminating of citizens under the impact of the negativity of the economic crisis. And not only the economic crisis, so it's clear to all today that capitalism has divided this world into the most virtual part of what I would say is well-being, i.e. a small part of that virtual well-being and an ever-increasing part of that very real poverty. Well, one of the groups of Croatian citizens most affected by the economic crisis are older and powerless, and that is exactly what I would like to say more about. It would actually be more accurate to say that this group of citizens has been hit twice. On the one hand, their difficult material status has been further deteriorated by the fact that the previous government did not harmonize their incomes, so pensions rather than keeping those pensions frozen for two years. On the other hand, precisely because of the recession, the implementation of planned measures aimed at curbing the poverty of older and powerless people has been delayed. One of the most important planned measures in this regard was the introduction of a social pension institute such as support for elderly people without a pension. This was of course to be resolved by the Social Care Act, but we know that this has not been resolved and the European Commission also noted in its recommendations that it gave us at the end of 2011. So there are the social pensions left as one of the hot potatoes left by the previous government and the current current government will know how to deal with that hot potato. So, we'll solve the problem of social pensions. The next thing the Ombudsman notices in his report, for years there has been almost no change in deinstitutionalising the care of older and powerless persons. Such a conclusion is also based on the fact that homes for older and powerless persons are not included in the national deinstitutionalisation and transformation plan of social care homes for the period 2011 to 2018. According to available data from the Ministry of Health and Social Care, so today's Ministry of Health on 31.12.2010 in homes for older and powerless people owned by counties, so it was a total of 10 and a half thousand users, 5 and a half thousand fixed in stations and 5000 mobile users in residential homes. At the same time, the needs for accommodation exceeded the available capacity, for example for permanent accommodation in residential facilities were as much as 20,000 requests. So, for one host, there were four potential users. It's a completely different situation with private homes for older and powerless people. According to the same data, 4200 users were located in these homes with 460 persons interested in accommodation. No matter how different these data are today in mid-2012 than in 2010 because, in the meantime, accommodation facilities have been increased mainly in the private sector and much less in the state sector, and then and now this huge disproportionateness is evident in the shown interest in housing in state homes compared to private ones. So the county homes are under a lot of pressure, the accommodation is waiting for years and unfortunately the accommodation is not welcome. Here I am in my Čakovec in Međimurje County waiting for accommodation in a home for more than five years. The problem of lack of state-owned units is huge, private homes are being opened, but private housing users unfortunately do not have the funds. In general, it is known that average wages in Međimurje County are 25% lower than the average of the state, and then pensions are far below the national average. What is the reason for the great interest in state homes and the little one at the same time for private homes? So that's exactly what the prices are. In state homes, the price is acceptable to most users or their maintenance bonds because half of the price is paid by the state and the other half can be paid by the majority of the users to their pension or other incomes. In private homes, users pay a full price and it is mostly twice as much as it is in state homes and despite the fact that these private homes are in the public network because they have a contract with the ministry and despite the fact that the same legal right is guaranteed in private homes, which is the right to accommodate and care for older people. So, regardless of what private homes operate on a profitable basis, it is unacceptable that users for the same quality and standard of social services pay a completely different price and will of course have to change through the Social Care Act. This, of course, makes the number of older people from year to year more progressive. It is now at 17% of the total population, and in a short time it will rise to 20 percent and these facts must certainly not be ignored. What is inadmissible is that we treat older people as former people, so our behavior towards them right now will be a sort of pattern of behavior for future generations, so our heirs tomorrow. And in this context, I would like to remind you that in 2012 there is a year of active ageing and intergenerational solidarity. And what I would ultimately like to say about this problem of the accommodation of the elderly and the powerless, so it's something affirmative. I would like to say that care for older and powerless people can also be seen as an activity that offers great opportunities to create new jobs. The illustrations do state the example of Germany where the nursing sector of older and powerless persons is actually the sector with the most employees in the country. In the last 17 years in Germany, the number of people who care for old and powerless has increased as much as 50%. Today, 1.2 million people are employed in the full-time sector, and in view of those with reduced working hours, the total number of employees in this branch is 2 million. This is significantly more, for example, the number of employees in the metal industry where 980 thousand workers work or in the famous German automotive industry where 780 thousand employees work or, for example, in an electronic industry where only a little more than half a million workers work. So I repeat this is an area that is to a certain extent a problem but it is also a large potential area for hiring new workers, especially those of the hard-working groups, which I consider primarily women over 45 years of age. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8682	Thank you, too, Your Honor. The following is reported for a ten-minute debate by the respected representative Boris Blazekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8683	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Today, in my presentation on behalf of the club, I spoke more about the very report by the Ombudsman, the importance of the existence of an attorney general, the necessity of an institution of the attorney general, and now I would like to say a little more about human rights, human freedoms whose protector and our envoy is our attorney-in-law, the Attorney General. I personally feel that every person is born with guaranteed human rights, the right to life, the right to security, the right to freedom and the right to happiness. And no one can and has no right to take away those rights, and the state is there just to protect those same rights. By our will, once we are enrolled in the parent books, we become political beings, citizens and citizens, and at the age of 18, we become full citizens and citizens and as citizens, we transfer some of our rights and freedoms to the state just to protect them with all possible means, that is why institutions and institutions are set up and therefore the institution of the attorney is established. And our freedoms are infinite until we enter the space of other people's freedoms. Without freedom, no other human value can be realized. Every human needs freedom to develop his talents and to achieve himself completely. Without freedom, the human spirit lands, culture and science are falling apart, the economy is not progressing. Our mind needs freedom as our body needs air to breathe. Every human being is a unique phenomenon. Individual or individual with their own personal unique ideas, desires, needs. At the same time, we are all social beings, dependent on other individuals and individuals with certain obligations against them. The rights and freedoms of an individual must by no means endanger the rights and freedoms of another individual or individual. Freedom and responsibility are indivisible, together they determine the relationship between the individual and the community. ... rights are necessary if an individual or individual wants to have a free personal life. [[You don't understand.]] Because of this freedom of opinion and expression is not only a strong moral requirement for tolerance and rule of law, it is also the way towards the development of the human mind, a path based on competition, free ideas, competition in knowledge. The right of private ownership also falls under human rights and, without recognition of the right to ownership, many other rights could not be and cannot be realised. Modern policy promotes equality in the initial positions of each individual, promotes competition and pluralism. This aims at free access to all markets for each, knowledge market, information market, labour market, commodity market, service market, financial market, all markets. We Liberals also believe that it is necessary to release individuals or individuals from the coercion of the state and unnamed institutions in order to be able or fully able to fulfil their responsibilities in freedom, and individual freedom is conditioned by responsibility to the community. The modern state encourages an increase in the freedom of citizens or citizens in all areas of life and aims to reduce the role of the state to necessity. This implies the ability of citizens and citizens to organise themselves and citizens to take over and take on a number of responsibilities in political communities, local self-government, associations, clubs, interest groups, initiatives. Contemporary understanding of the role of the state is through the protection of individual freedoms, the protection of citizens from domestic and external violence and the preservation of the Constitution of guaranteed rights and provisions. The modern state ensures that provisions, rights and obligations apply to all but leaves room for free decision to an individual and individuals. We Liberals also believe that modern policy does not want to predetermine the final result, it establishes rules instead of results because such a predetermined result simply does not exist. Today, every modern policy seeks democracy. Democracy allows for choice and change, but does not guarantee freedom. For this reason, I personally believe that we are firmly all in the positions of separation of control and restriction in the power of the state and that it is in vain. Modern policy tends to a state that does not exceed the limits of the rules set and that appreciates freedom. The state has an obligation by law to guarantee the safety of every citizen and citizen. In every modern democratic state, the rule of law respects and protects group interests. That's why... he carries them out with freedom and responsibility, not political power. We Liberals believe that the state should not interfere with the economy, the state should not compete with private entrepreneurs on the free market through its institutions. We also believe that the state must use the starting point of human freedom and responsibility to make decisions in all areas of action for the present, but also for the future. For this reason, if it is fair, this policy refuses to bring solutions to today's problems at the expense of future generations, especially through the borrowing of public functions or the lack of concern for the environment. And let me now read a quote by Thomas Paine from his essay in defense of man's rights. Thomas Paine is otherwise an active participant of both the American and French revolutions and said: "The society is the product of our needs and the power of our wickedness." Society is improving positively to happiness, uniting our feelings, and the government is doing it negatively by keeping control of our faults. Society promotes relationships, power creates differences. Society protects, power punishes. Under any conditions, freedom is a blessing, power is also in the best form necessary evil, and at worst it is unbearable. That is why modern democratic states, along with various other modernised institutions in terms of the protection of human rights, establish a very important institution of the ombudsman, the Ombudsman. But looking at Croatia today, in reality, without misleading anyone or herself, it should be said that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the past period were all but free. They were constantly threatened by basic human rights. And therefore, colleagues and colleagues, I believe in all of us in the Parliament and in the new government that we will all uncompromisingly address all the challenges of establishing the greatest standards of human rights and civil liberties for our citizens and citizens. I believe and I want to believe and I will try to make sure that no amendments to our laws and regulations will be radical enough if it is guided by these highest standards. I believe our ambitions must be enormous and without limits. Everything that's... in the light of the highest attainment of human freedoms and civil rights must at least be our goal, and on many occasions only a starting point because for our citizens we have the right and the duty to seek and realise absolutely and only the best. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8684	Thank you very much. The following has been reported for a 10-minute debate by the respected representative Drazenko Pandek. He's not in the assembly, he's losing his right to discuss this matter. The next colleague is a respected representative of Ana Lovrin. She's not in the assembly, she's losing her right to discuss this matter. The next representative is the respected Branko Bačić. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8685	Dear Mr. Public Attorney with Associates, please allow me to take part in the discussion of your 2011 report. I would refer to my report on two topics that I consider necessary here to discuss during this debate. One refers to your assessment of the work of the Department of Environmental Protection and Spatial Affairs, and in the second part I would refer to your assessment of the amendment and implementation of the Law on State Employees, which was created in 2008. In the section relating to the work and conduct of the Department of Inspection Affairs, I must say the injustice is therefore the work of the inspection itself. The fact is that the Office for Inspective Affairs in its conduct regulates the problem of illegal construction in the Republic of Croatia and the treatment of illegally built buildings. Faced with the problem of illegal construction, which permanently devastates Croatian space on the one hand, and on the other hand for more than 150 thousand Croatian families is a trauma due to the unresolved status of their buildings, buildings or better said roof over the head of the previous government has approached the law on the treatment of illegally built buildings in order to resolve on the one hand the trauma that has been for a very large number of Croatian families, but on the other hand, to try to define the status of unsettled buildings in the Republic of Croatia in order to facilitate the treatment of the Office for Inspective Affairs and on the other hand, those facilities that have been illegally built through the legalisation process to function in the economic development of Croatia. We were aware of all the indetermination of existing legal regulations and the severity of the conduct of urban inspection in each case. But we were aware that without the adoption of a strong norm that could stop illegal construction and freeze it if I could say so with the day of 21 June 2011 when the aerophotometry of the whole of Croatia was completed, we were aware that it was not possible to effectively stop illegal construction in Croatia. For this reason, we have introduced into the law a provision prohibiting the placing into the legal traffic of illegal objects, which have been illegally built and we thought and today I hold that this is a measure that would indeed prevent such illegal construction from happening in the future. This provision, which is included in the law, is not something that was only done through this law, but we have seen from the analysis of a number of laws in EU Member States that, for example, the Government of the Republic of Italy has done similarly because it has also been faced with this mess of illegal construction throughout the country. So here is the fact that, in your report, you are decommitting, i.e. you are assessing a double such provision, and I am aware that against such a provision and a constitutional action was brought at the Constitutional Court, I am holding that the implementation of such a provision could really prevent illegal construction in the future, and that it was not the legislator's intention to leave the assessment to public notaries who do not have to go into the soloisation of contracts that bring illegal objects into legal traffic, but that it was with further clarifications of the law itself by the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial arrangements and construction on the one hand, and on the other hand, the Ministry of Justice could therefore be resolved by means of sublaw acts which could be resolved. The second part, here's what I said in my introduction, would refer to an amendment to the Civil Service Act. On page 125 of your report, you wrote that this 2008 Law novel allowed me to quote: "these amendments made it possible for the appointments by political criteria of similarity and loyalty, instead of exclusively professional and professional criteria for the appointment of directors of government in state bodies, state administration bodies." I believe that such an assessment is certainly based on an analysis of the selection of directors in individual administrations in all ministries because since you are serious and professional, a serial person does not believe that you could give such an assessment based on what we have these days, and in the past year you have heard about the appointments of directors of administrations in certain ministries. Namely, since I was a minister in the past term and had also participated and proposed to the Government the appointment of several directors of the administration not only at the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning but for a time as State Secretary at the Ministry of the Sea, Transport and Infrastructure participated in the proposal of candidates for directors in certain administrations that were in my Secretary of State for the Sea I must say that I do not agree with this assessment that the criteria for the appointment of directors of the administration in those ministries was a political likeness or loyalty. I can say that out of the eight administrations in which I proposed directors of these administrations, above all, the criteria were professionality, long-term work in the administration, and that I was not really interested in their party membership or political loyalty when proposing the names of those persons. I am saying very interesting about how much it is, and probably this analysis would show how many former directors of the administration were later appointed to the head of the sector or the chief of services in certain ministries because I believe that when the appointment of chiefs in these ministries in the sectors and services should be a criterion of expertise and knowledge and experience that they have gained through the work of the state administration. Because by such an assessment, we have practically given the political legitimacy to amend the Law on State Servants in such a way that we have covered, if so I can say the decision that ministerial assistants are appointed exclusively to the proposal of the Registrar Minister or Head of State Administration without any public tender, without defining any criteria. Therefore, if there were failures, if there were such appointments, I can't say that there were none, probably there were those in the case of my proposals there really wasn't, it can be very easily checked in one and the other ministry. This is still not enough, therefore, to change the law in a way that has been amended to allow the appointment of ministerial assistants exclusively at the discretion of the Head of State Administration. The more the later the law came, the more so the heads of the state administration's body could appoint a certain number of people in their cabinets without a public tender. Therefore, if I repeat it either, and I believe it was, a failure or any political... The appointments by political similarity based on the 2008 amendment of the law seem to me that you, as a public defender and as a whole Croatian public, should be aware of the fact that the so-called persons for whom the criterion is, for whose appointment clear criteria are established, that then where and where is a better solution, than this solution resulting from the amendments and addition of the Law on civil servants. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And so, clearly and I would like to say this, the fact that someone is a member of a political party, if they meet the conditions laid down by law, should not be a crime that would prevent him from hiring, that is, performing for me personally the most demanding duties in the state administration...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8686	Time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8687	...Government that, I'm about to finish Mr. Vice President. So be the work of an or an administration that is actually prescribed by law for individual ministries. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8688	Your Honor, three replicas have been reported to your presentation. Let's get this straight. The Honorable representative of Peja Grbin has the first line.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8689	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I've got to touch one point here, and that's about the work of an esteemed colleague referring to the Law on dealing with illegally built buildings. My colleague, the government and the Parliament committed two mistakes in the last term. First, when they did not think about how to apply the provisions of the Law on dealing with illegally built buildings regarding the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, all buildings in the Republic of Croatia were suddenly declared illegal on 11 August 2011, and then you showed a deep misunderstanding when you thought that the interpretations of the Ministry and the instructions given by the Ministry could regulate the handling of the courts. Unfortunately, the courts, land-booked courts acting under the law, not only are they not bound but they must not act on the interpretation of the ministry, would be deeply against the law and against the constitution. Unfortunately, you have passed such laws to the extent that in the past half of the years, there has been immeasurable damage, immeasurable damage to one of the most currently threatened sectors of the Republic of Croatia's economy. I hope, I believe it wasn't your intention, but if you've noticed a mistake then you should have corrected it immediately, not when we tried to correct it. And a respected colleague of the property ban will not lead to the suspension of illegal construction, illegal construction can only be prevented, and this is very clear written by the esteemed gentleman's attorney-in-law with effective action of inspection and supervision of the work of that inspection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8690	Thank you, Your Honor. Replication response, respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8691	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I'm going to end my position on the issue that was caused by Mr. Grbin's reply when he came to the Parliament to propose amendments and to supplement the Law on dealing with illegally built buildings. So, I argue that, that the conduct of certain land and book departments is an oath to municipal courts throughout Croatia, proof that, by virtue of the earlier provisions of the law, it is also possible to deliver all objects and that it is not, all buildings in Croatia and that it was not an obstacle to the conduct and resolution of land and book departments. Namely, with the district provided by the Ministry of Justice it was clear that, that such a provision applied only to those objects that were entered in the land books at the time when the laws and positive legal legislation in the Republic of Croatia allowed the entry into the land book of objects without the delivery of the instrument of use, and to all other objects and buildings that were entered in land-book departments at times when it was prescribed by the laws that could not be entered into the land-book without the delivery of an act on administration, these objects were not covered by such a provision of the law, but I will say about that when the amendment and the addition of the Law on the treatment of illegally built objects came to us here in the debate in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8692	Thank you very much. The next line was reported by respected representative Dinko Buric. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8693	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Bačić, I will look only at that part of your speech, which is quite unnecessaryly put into debate, and this is about the way you were a minister at the time of HDZ's conduct. The difference between the way in which the current government is staffed and the previous HDZ government is only in the color of the membership card, in no other way, do not fool your own people with such statements that there are no criteria of political similarity as the most important criteria for staffing in public systems. That was also in HDZ time, and unfortunately we're witnessing it today.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8694	Replication response, respected representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8695	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I have to say that there were reasons for this kind of statement of mine because on page 125 of the report by the Attorney General referred to the implementation of the Law on State Servants and the fact that the amendment of the 2008 Law made it possible for management leaders to be employed in the bodies of the State Administration according to party membership. I said it, and I'm gonna do it one more time to believe there were cases like that. I just said that I would be interested in whether such an assessment is based on an analysis of the number and all of those appointed directors of the administration because this assessment for a large number of these directors is in a certain way not correct because it is said that they are generally named by political resemblance, i.e. loyalty to a particular political party. And I think that's a flat-rate assessment if it's not based on a certain analysis. Because I said that, as head of the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning and Construction, I suggested a number of people in charge of whose party membership, although here I am to this day I don't know, and that can be very easily checked in that ministry. Very easy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8696	Thank you very much. The need for a replica was reported by respected representative Josip Boris. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8697	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, here I fully agree with everything Mr. Bačić said about what he said on page 125 of this report. I have to say, this is one sentence I'm going to read for me actually is amazing. On the other hand, it was necessary in times of crisis when urgent changes were needed to be removed from key places politically appointed persons of other political options. When we read the Law on the Ombudsman, where the article clearly states in another article that he must be guided by the principles of morality and justice or justice, I do not know how this fits on a sentence like this, which is, in fact, the approval of everything that has been done in the system of state administration over the past few months, and what do we have for a fact? I personally served as assistant minister and secretary of state, and I thought it was a political duty. However, the directors came by public tender. Neither the HDZ nor the SDP wrote anywhere as a condition of employment. These people where are they today? 80% are head of the sector in new ministries because they are professional, because 15, 20 years already work in their places, deal closely with certain topics and obviously know the most about these topics. And today we declare them also through this report to politically colored people. We think it's a big injustice. The question arises what would have happened if one of these principals had turned to some kind of distinguished narrator and sought the protection of his own rights. If the Ombudsman had responded in this way that it was an urgent need to change all of this and that it was therefore necessary to remove them from these functions. I think it's unfair for these people and that these sentences shouldn't stand in reports like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8698	Thank you, Your Honor. The answer to your line has a respected representative, Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8699	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's the deal. I agree with the presentation of my colleague, Boric. One of the criteria or reasons when the law was amended was that the Law on civil servants would change among other things and for the reason that the new law would lead to a reduction in the number of civil servants. Given the flow of five months since the government was appointed, I must say that during the handover of the government in the Republic of Croatia to state administration bodies there were 85 ministers made by state secretaries. Over the past five months already, and yet all ministries have not completed their formation, but are now 107 state officials. So, ministers, deputy ministers and appointed ministerial assistants. I repeat, I believe that once they are filled in and brought in the structure of all ministries, that number will be around 135 state officials. So, not only has there not been a reduction, but the latest data with today suggest a total of 107 government officials deployed in state administration bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8700	Thank you very much. We'll stop working now. I'm taking a break until 3:00. The first to discuss is the respected representative Ivan Grubisic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8701	Our colleagues and colleagues continue to work and debate on the 2011 Ombudsman's Report. Mr. Representative Ivan Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8702	I thank you for the debate because when I came to my turn, the MP after me got the advantage, there were several replicas, and in a sign that I skipped the word of the day I gave up the debate in protest.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8703	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8704	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Attorney General. Here's a few sentences on this report at the end. My general assessment as a representative but also as a citizen that this report has shown quite well what challenges and tasks the institution of the Croatian Ombudsman faces. Reading various cases and individual chapters of this report, I pulled three out of which I intend to manifest myself. First of them is the state of prison. That's what almost all the speakers are talking about today. A little bit of the condition you've described in this report has been missed. No matter what prisons are involved, what the Republic of Croatia and its institutions must not interfere with, is that Croatia is a signator of all relevant international documents and conventions on fundamental human rights. Reading the details of the situation in Croatian penitentiary, the scenes from that cult film in which Dustin Hoffman seems to me and Steve Mcqueen are playing the main roles of the film about the famous penitentiary in which the French prisoners were serving. It is not good that today in 2012 in Croatian penitentiary prisoners, regardless of the degree of closure, sleep on the floor, that in the rooms that are scheduled for 8 people stay up to 20 prisoners, that late access to the treatment of people who have very serious diagnosis, insufficient health care and even the situation in which from 23 hours 22 is staying indoors, and only 2 hours on some kind of terrace report where there is little movement. People who are being held in the prison system of the Republic of Croatia for more serious and easier crimes. In fact, a relationship to the fundamental human rights of a particular state of society testifies to how much it values itself. And in any case, what we, as the Croatian Parliament, should be responsible for, is that the new director of the prison system draws attention to unacceptable conditions and an eclectic violation of fundamental human rights. Another thing about land management, the very theme as such may not even sting the eyes is not described something particularly broad. It is clear that the consequences of, among other things, the failure to carry out, the fragmentation of agricultural land, are very complex procedures, less or more effective institutions which are elements in the conduct and decision-making of these complex procedures. However, what is the conclusion, or note, is that the ministry's resolution on several occasions did not show at all about the recommendations and letters forwarded by the Ombudsman to the ministry. Finally, the judiciary, as counterpart Kregar observed in his individual debate, increased the number of cases which citizens dissatisfied with the work of the Croatian judiciary are forwarding to the judiciary through the attorney general and alone as a parliamentary representative in the opportunity to address me unsatisfactory by applying certain documents from which, in certain cases, there is a complete indication that there are irregularities from cases of an apparent conflict of interest specifically in my city, and then I know that the data are relevant to the parliamentary question is a lesson on the tridivision of the authorities in the Republic of Croatia and the independence of the judiciary. The independence of the judiciary in every regulated democratic constitutional state is a very important fundamental institution, however, there should be a line and a limit when it is taken into account that a late reaction has been recorded in some cases, a late reply to the Ombudsman's staff, we need to ask ourselves some questions. For the purposes of this Decision, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The Croatian Constitution, which clearly states that it is the Assembly that has authorized the Ombudsman to carry out his duties. If we are in a situation that it is, and it is, then actually the relationship between the institutions of the Croatian state is the unit of local self-government, the regional administration towards the public defender is actually a relationship to the Croatian Parliament. If it is recorded and it is in the report on the work of the Ombudsman, absolutely ignoring certain parts of the executive government, the unit of local self-government, then it is actually ladies and gentlemen a relationship to this house and this House and its role in the Republic of Croatia. I therefore strongly suggest that in the Croatian Parliament, through all open issues, we deal with the fundamental issue very carefully and continuously, where is today the Croatian Parliament, which has created its role as the relationship between all institutions in Croatian society to the Croatian Parliament, what is the relationship between the executive authority and the Croatian Parliament, and through this we will certainly contribute to the position of efficiency and efficiency of the Ombudsman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8705	Thank you very much. The debate is closed. Final review, attorney general Mr. Jurica Malcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8706	Thank you very much. I will be very brief, first of all I would like to thank you for the debate which, not only in my assessment, was extremely tolerated and focused on real problems, on the functioning of the administration and the judiciary and the protection of human rights. So there have been no conventional confrontations on some minor issues. It's very important, and I hope it continues in that tone. The second question is that I want to say something very briefly, and that's the only question that's actually caused in some way a little controversy and different assessments. It's a matter of politicizing the public administration, I'd say. I will make my position clear immediately, although I believe that he and the report are clear. The politicization of any sign can't be good. She's a waste of public administration. So neither left nor right, or as someone said black or blue, none is good. I think I've made that very clear. I'm glad that on this left I've heard in a certain way and accepting that view that it wasn't good to have the principle of administrative, so to speak, the public administration organisation to politically name the assistant ministers. That's quite clear. In this regard, I propose and I also suggested in the recommendations to return to the initial principles of the 2005 Civil Service Act. Of course, this is not possible tomorrow, but this should be the goal and need to find a model, and such models are known in the world even prevailing, which is that public administration be led by professional and career officials, to be relatively autonomous and independent because it cannot be resolved on the legal rights of citizens to political arbitration or political warrants. They must be people who will only enforce the law. What needs to be done in this situation is to strengthen the executive part of the ministry. So, people gathered around the minister, and these are ministerial assistants who are not directly headed by administrative organisations, but are those who play that role that the minister as a member of the government has towards the administration. It is a guideline of the conduct of legislative activities, policies, etc. I think I've made that clear enough. What has been seen as one difference in tone, therefore, some justification for this situation, I will only remind myself that I was in the performance of the 2008 Civil Service Act, which occurred after the election when changes were due, that I mentioned in three reports so far, that it was always disputed in some way, but I made it clear then that if the Law on civil servants were not applied in all their provisions, it would also be decided in 2008 that these directors of the administration would also be politically appointed and not in the competition that applies to all other civil servants and that this would lead to a new vicious circle in which political appointments and after the change of government. Of course, that's what happened. Such appointments have not lasted the shift of power. In doing so, I agree with Mr. Bačić, who said, of course, that not all of them, far from all the directors being then appointed political counterparts, etc. Of course there are professional people, but the way it was politically appointed led to such a situation. Of course, however, this principle should not be built on now. As far as I could figure out the left-hand side, I realized that it was a question in some way, and I also saw in the conversation with the minister that it was accepted, and I hope that we will have one model of administration because the administration reform has just begun. That we will have one model that will somehow make management professional, career and neutral, which is most important. Here's what I was just trying to explain, and I'm saying these other things were seeming to me in this debate very well placed. In the end, I call on you and you will have the opportunity to get the Law on the Ombudsman very quickly, and then I would be pleased to have those comments and suggestions that you have now made that and in this debate in some way are being updated and to get the law that will be for the next period, so to speak of a new team that comes at the end of this year that will allow it to do its job better than before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8707	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8708	Report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2011. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies and the opinions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the following conclusion: - A report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2011 is accepted. A report on the work of the attorney general who's against it? Restraint? I find that the conclusion was accepted by most votes, 93 for and 27 abstentions, none against. And in accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, I am voting on the following conclusions: 1. Opinions, observations and proposals submitted in the debate on the report as well as observations, proposals and recommendations by the Ombudsman in the report shall be submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to take measures to make the work of the competent authorities and bodies with public authority more effective. 2. It is up to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to refer more speedily to the parliamentary procedure of the draft Law on the Ombudsman. Who's in favour of this proposal for a conclusion? Against? Restraint? I find that the conclusions I have just read have been reached unanimously with 120 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8709	Now we're going to the next point. - Report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2011 The Ombudsman for children submitted the report on the basis of Article 18. It's a law about a child's attorney. You received the material by mail. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and the Committee on Gender Equality. You received the reports at the session. The prosecutor for children, Ms. Mila Jelavic, will further explain the proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8710	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honored MPs, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Before you is the report on the work of the Ombudsman's Office for Children and on the state of children's rights in the Republic of Croatia for 2011. Introductoryly, I would like to say a few sentences about the report itself, and then on the state of children's rights as it is systematiced in the report that lies before you. The 2011 report and the presentation of the data shall follow the methodology used in the previous reports. The first part contains data and information on infringements of individual rights of children, followed by the part containing the general initiatives of the office, i.e. proposals and recommendations for building a complete system of protection of children's rights. After that, the part relating to warnings, proposals and recommendations to prevent harmful actions is followed by proposals for amending the rules, visits by institutions and insight into the conditions in which children live or stay. Other activities related to the protection and promotion of the rights of children follow, as well as the presentation of meetings, conversations and cooperation with children. We end up showing our activities on the international agenda and showing the work of the regional office, the Office of the Ombudsman for Children as a specific feature of our office. I'd just like to list a few statistics on our work and conduct over the past year. We opened 2259 new items, of which in 1054 were individual applications involving 1616 children, 1205 were general initiatives of the office, we also handled in 864 individual cases. By the number of applications, I'd say we're on the same level as the year before. We also had 1963 phone consultations that do not enter the above mentioned figures. And just a word, two about the structure of the injuries we're talking about. The largest group already, I would say several years in a row consist of violation of children's rights, personal children's rights, 636 of which 306 violations of the right to life with parents and parental care and 273 relate to violence and neglect. The following follow by numbers, violations of children's educational rights 159, then economic rights of children 79, etc. It shall be specified in detail in the report. Many individual cases have been an incentive for recommendations that we have addressed over the past year to a number of addresses, during 2011 we participated in the working groups and then sent comments and suggestions to 21 regulations that were being made and passed the legislative procedure, and we have also given 9 initiatives to amend them. We also visited numerous institutions and places where children stay longer or shorter, 65 of them, of which 13 institutions of social care, 3 institutions of housing victims of domestic violence, 3 health institutions, 28 educational kindergartens and schools, student homes, 4 criminal institutions, 6 children's resorts and 8 playgrounds for children. A significant number of children visited us in our offices at all four locations. We have dealt with various areas of child life, and as we have always given priority to the violations of their individual rights. We also opened a number of new topics and cooperation with many bodies and institutions because they gave us opportunities to live in, but also our commitment to more intensively involve children and young people in the process of making important documents and deciding on issues concerning children. I would certainly like to highlight the continuation of intensive cooperation with the local community in a number of common topics. I will mention only two, three such as the availability of transport connections means insurance of public transport, pre-school education financing, insurance of assistants in continuing children with developmental difficulties. We have paid great attention to working with children and young people and strengthening their role and increasing visibility in society in general. Children's participation in all topics concerning them must be more pronounced, stronger, children must be more present in society. Through a permanent counseling body, a network of young counselors are constantly communicating with children, questioning and listening to their opinions and opinions, and they participate in the decision-making process in our office. During 2011, we also addressed 47 recommendations to state authorities, which were listed and systematised in one part of the report, and we found that around 30% were accepted. And now I would actually move on to this second part, to the state of children's rights in the Republic of Croatia in general. The submission of the Annual Work Report is an opportunity to take full account of the state of children's rights in our country and to point out weaknesses and miss out so that they can prevail. Over the past year, we have met with a number of questions from almost all areas of children's lives, but dominant topics are, as have previous years, the threat of children due to conflicting family relations and the ineffectiveness of protection against violence. The mistrust of parents towards institutions driven by the length of judicial proceedings and the ineffectiveness of the Centre for Social Care remains particularly pronounced in cases of family interruptions, which further makes it difficult to position the child. Very often parents cannot or will not consider the child’s need to keep in touch with both Mom and Dad after the divorce, or to accept decisions by the authorities if they do not comply with their expectations. Children are making contact with other parents impossible, accusing and tarnishing each other in front of a child at every opportunity. Unfortunately, the level of judicial effectiveness in the procedures in which children are being resolved is still not satisfactory. The child protection system involved in the judicial process is a lack of, long-term proceedings, ineffectiveness of conduct, inequity of court practice and slow resolution of complex family-law relations directly harm children. Many children have also been hit by difficulties due to performances on their parents' funds, then non-payments from parents they do not live with, as well as reductions in work benefits and benefits of social security. The poverty of children and their families has also been reflected in the difficult achievement of the health and education rights of living standards and appropriate housing conditions, and therefore greater social sensitivity of the state is necessary in ensuring and achieving measures and programmes for the socially endangered and insane children. A large number of children remain in institutions without adequate parental care. The process of this institutionalisation is being carried out too slowly because of the unsatisfactory development of foster care. It is also insufficient to support biological families in creating conditions when their children return from the institution. If it is estimated that a return to a biological family is not in the child’s best interests, it is inadmissible to keep it in the institution, and it is necessary to carry out the adoption procedure quickly. It is worrying that for various reasons, as well as the lack of involvement of the social care centre in the institutions reside and children who have fulfilled all the legal assumptions for adoption but cannot be found for them. Body punishment of children is tolerated and justified despite quality regulations that prohibit it as well as numerous arguments that warn of its harmfulness for child development. Children suffer other types of domestic violence with physical punishment. In front of peer violence in homes, eyes are often closed. It remains invisible and, in some forms, insufficiently identified, leaving behind the necessary reactions. Violence is also present in educational institutions, not only among children, but also used as a means of resolving conflicts or as an educational method by employees of these institutions. The peer violence outside and around the school takes new forms which favours the development of new technologies in particular. In a society where violence unfortunately became a way of resolving conflicts, children get a message of its acceptability although awareness of the importance of prevention is growing too little of the implemented quality and effective prevention programmes. Preventing child sexual abuse as a particularly difficult way of jeopardizing child's integrity requires maximum involvement of all social structures. By ratifying the Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse, Croatia joined the fight against this form of child abuse, which implies the obligation to treat him as a crime regardless of who did it and where he committed it. Unfortunately, the need to protect children from sexual exploitation has not yet been sufficiently developed. This is confirmed by the reactions from which it is evident that our society is much more sensitive to the interest, reputation, status or position of adults than to the protection and welfare of children. Not once have we witnessed a great deal of concern that the application of sexual abusers to children will destroy their careers, tarnish honor, stegmatize a prominent citizen, or endanger the rules of a professional or other class where the abused child disappeared from focus. Treating children in conflict with the law is further worrying. All youth departments in which children are tried do not have professional associates whose presence is mandatory in all proceedings. It takes too long to impose sanctions on minors when court proceedings are under way despite the legal obligation to act in haste. It concerns the lack of adequate accommodation and professional facilities for children of detainees in the preparatory procedure to ensure their separation from adult perpetrators of criminal offences, appropriate treatment and training during detention. The application of alternative measures and sanctions is often questionable due to insufficient human, material and other conditions. The institutions lack adequate treatment, and the post-institutional acceptance of the child is insufficiently prepared and ineffective. A large number of children are not available to individual educational programmes, assistance and support from professionals, organised transport to school or suitable spatial conditions for teaching. Additional investment is necessary both at national and local level to ensure greater availability and adequate conditions of education and education. The rights of children are rarely threatened by unprofessional and unethical practices of educators. Important activities to be undertaken by the State are the establishment of a system of evaluation of their work and licences, and the strengthening of the capacity of inspection and expert-pedagogical supervisory services. It is necessary to improve cooperation between educational institutions and other bodies responsible for the protection of children in order to protect children in a timely and coordinated manner. It is necessary to adopt a sublegal regulation on educational rights of children with developmental difficulties, to regulate the status of assistants in follow-up, and to continue the sensitisation and education of educational professionals at all levels of the education system in order to achieve the highest degree of involvement of children with developmental difficulties, in regular educational institutions. Schools should be places where children will receive all information related to the preservation of mental, sexual and physical health, prevention of violence and addiction, and the development of healthy lifestyles. It is therefore necessary to introduce health education into the system of education and education. The right of a child to the best possible medical care is not respected either. This indicates the lack of healthcare professionals at different levels of health care, and the weariness of the department of health care institutions where children are treated, making it impossible to provide complete health care while ensuring the dignity of children. Parent stay with children in moments of child disease is often not possible because of insufficient accommodation capacity. They worry about the poor and cramped conditions in the treatment departments of children who have malignancies, and the lack of psycho-social support for children and parents both during the period of hospital treatment and after leaving the child. A particular problem is the lack of experts on mental health of children and their unequal regional spread. The improvement of the position of children of members of national minorities, especially Roma children, must continue to be an important objective of the countries, with the continued activities undertaken under different plans and strategies and the provision of money to implement these activities, it is important to focus more activities on working with the majority of the population to combat prejudice. It is necessary to raise awareness and educate citizens about the rights and equality of all Croatians about what they are stereotypes and prejudices, which are stereotypes and prejudices towards a minority group and how much prejudice and lack of tolerance affect and reflect the everyday life of children. The lack of protection and loss of children as a transport participant and in the organised transport of pupils points to the need for enhanced supervision of compliance with rules governing the safety of transport and transport of children, the development of transport infrastructure that will enable safe transport of children in particular in smaller areas is the obligation of the state and local community, the regulation governing children's rights to participate in cultural and artistic activities, sport, play and recreation, and the provision of quality free time while ensuring the best interests of children are lacking, there are no rules on the conditions for carrying out activities in which children exercise their cultural rights. Sports isn't available to their children. Reports of child loss on playgrounds and in playgrounds suggest inappropriate areas for children's play, insufferability and failure of the game device, lack of supervision. The obligation is for local self-government units to maintain and oversee playgrounds in their territory, and the state is obliged to take measures for the urgent adoption of laws to ensure the child's right to safe play and to grow up in secure conditions. The increased activity of the state is expected to protect children from harmful environmental activities because insufficient and untimely investing in infrastructure and modernising air pollution plants can permanently endanger the health and life of children. Although institutional and public experts have seen and responded to violations of children’s rights in the media, it often goes without legal consequences because existing regulations do not apply, so children are not really protected. Active participation of children in all their areas of interest is of particular importance. Adults need to learn how to enable children to participate in making decisions that concern them. It is also necessary to provide systematic mechanisms for which the right to express its own opinion and to participate in decision-making will not only be declared but truly possible and guaranteed. At the same time, great attention should be paid to informing children about the right to participate and to focus on empowering children and young people for active participation in society. In conclusion, despite the numerous weaknesses and failures we have pointed out in this report, we must point out that a number of moves have been made in the Republic of Croatia to respect and protect human rights. But our mission and our mission is to build a system that will be built according to the child’s standards in which children’s rights will be fully protected, accomplished and achieved. For the construction of such a system, adults are responsible. We therefore point to problems and encourage the authorities to overcome them because they are expected by the Ombudsman for children as the voices of children in the adult world. Finally, as regards children's rights, we also mention more and more frequently mentioned the responsibility and obligations of children or better to say their absence, and to point out that rights should not be earned, and in particular cannot be reduced because of the lack of responsibility and fulfilment of obligations. That's the way it is with children and adults. But both should bear responsibility for their conduct and the development and responsibilities of children are responsible adults. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8711	Thank you. The Committee on Family, Youth and Sports? The Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8712	At its 5th session of 25 April 2011, the Human Rights and Rights Committee of National Minorities discussed the 2011 Ombudsman's 2011 report. The Court considered that report as an interested working body. In the opening part of the debate, the Ombudsman informed the members of the Committee of the most important highlights in the report as well as the recommendations she made to the relevant institutions during 2011. In particular, she pointed out that the Office of the Ombudsman for Children is the only office compared to all other defences that have their own regional offices in Split, Rijeka and Osijek. The opinion is that the work of the office at regional level has contributed significantly to the visibility of the Office for Children's Office, as well as to the increase in the number of complaints recorded from year to year. She stressed that 2259 new cases were opened in the office during 2011, of which 1054 were reports of violations of individual children's rights, 1205 of the general initiative of the office. Individual violations of children's rights in 2011 covered 1616 children. She pointed out that, in addition to 1054 new applications, the office also acted in 864 transferred items from previous years, which is of particular importance because certain more demanding items are monitored for several years to ensure that children's rights are exercised in each case. Most of the written applications received relate to the violation of the personal rights of children related to the relationship with parents and children and domestic violence and neglect, followed by violations of children's rights in the education system and violations of their economic rights. In particular, she pointed out the participation of the offices in the drafting of legislative proposals and stressed that 21 opinions were addressed during 2011 on the proposals for the laws referred to in the parliamentary procedure and 9 initiatives for amending certain laws which, of course, touched the rights of children. As you can see, a great deal of work on individual cases and on cases initiated by the office and by the law, in legislation. In the debate, the committee members specifically referred to part of the report on violence via the Internet and mobile, given the extremely large number of children who have mobile phones and who are able to access the Internet. The latest survey of the Faculty of Economics in Split on Internet use noted that children between 6 and 7 hours a day are on the Internet, a data that further indicates the importance and complexity of the problem. It has been pointed out that the problem of verbal violence on the Internet has been discussed on several occasions on this Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and that this topic should be given much more attention since it is very difficult to determine when the border between the area of freedom is crossed and there is a breach of freedom and the rights of certain social groups and individuals. In particular, the problem of lack of information from parents about the dangers and strengths of this media has been highlighted. Committee members are of the opinion that only through education and the development of better communication with children in order to learn about the advantages and dangers of using this medium may affect the reduction of child rights in this area. And finally, since the Ombudsman specifically pointed out the number of tours of institutions where children are staying to promote children's rights, the board members pointed out the importance of getting to know children with their obligations in line with their age. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach the following conclusion: - A report by the Ombudsman for the children for 2011 and the opinion, observations and proposals presented in the debate on the report as well as observations and proposals and recommendations by the Ombudsman for children shall be submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia by means of a report, because this is also the purpose of taking measures to make the work of the competent state authorities and bodies with public bases more effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8713	Thank you. The Committee on Gender Equality? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. HNS representative club, Mr. Representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8714	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed advocates for children with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HNS Club, I must first say that I support this report. The assessment of the situation of children's rights, problems and children's needs are detailed and comprehensively presented in one place and this report on the work of the Ombudsman for children is a valuable contribution, opportunity and encouragement for all of us to redefine our goals, continue to act and take measures and activities related to the protection of children. And that is one of our further responsibilities in the work of this House. That's the attitude of the HNS club. A review of the work of the office which is an overview of the state of real level of concern about the achievement of children's rights in this report concerns almost all areas of children's lives – family, education, health care, social care, justice, leisure time. The report shows that our system still lacks clear and effective answers to questions and problems of child manipulation during and after the divorce of parents, and manipulation is often used as a means of accounting among parents at the expense of children. Physical punishment of children is still accepted in society and is not sanctioned. Children victims and perpetrators of violence do not receive adequate assistance and protection as a family in both educational and other institutions. This multiplys their difficulties. The awareness of the need to protect children from sexual exploitation has not yet been sufficiently developed. Our society is much more sensitive to the interest, reputation, status and position of adults than to the protection and welfare of children, according to the Ombudsman. We support her on behalf of the HNS club in that attitude, and we'll make sure that these things change. There is an increasing number of violence through new technologies, Internet, cell phones, etc. Through new technologies children also experience violations of the right to privacy and are exposed to numerous inappropriate and pornographic content. It is necessary to work on prevention at all levels of the education system and to support the lawyer’s recommendation to introduce health care at school. The Ombudsman for children also gave an overview of the problem of children without adequate parental care and pointed to the longevity of their stay in institutions which, among other things, is the consequence of the failure of the Centre for Social Care as well as the lack of support for foster care. According to reports of children's rights violations in third place, violations of children's rights in the education system have been reported. One part of the injuries was caused by unprofessional and unethical procedures by educational and educational workers. This year, there has been an increase in reports of violations of children's economic rights. In the economic crisis, a number of children have been lifted free textbooks, funding school transport that this coalition government has reintroduced since the 9th month, knowing and recognising without this report. Also, the financing of personal assistants and subsidisations in children's kindergartens. The Ombudsman for children in her work in the past year also opened the topic of participation of children in artistic audiovisual and promotional activities. The report shows that children participating in the judicial procedure are exposed to additional victimisation due to an inadequately organised, lacking and inefficient system of their protection. Procedures in courts as well as executions are long-term, insensitive to the problems and needs of children, which further harms them, especially when they meet the perpetrators in a place such as the court. It is therefore necessary to provide for other spaces, quality spaces, or different ways in which children can testify about the violence that has been upon them. The lawyer in her report points to child safety problems at playgrounds and playgrounds, we also heard in the introduction. The report also warns of failures in the way children are reported in the media. It is an extremely important thing to protect children and their privacy, and in doing so, the Ombudsman particularly stresses the need for full protection of the identity of the child that we at the HNS club support. Of course, we are aware, and the Ombudsman warns, of the lack of health care professionals and inappropriate spatial conditions of health institutions where children are being treated. I will specifically refer to a part of the report that speaks about caring for the mental health of children. State institutions in the healthcare and social care system often cannot provide long-term therapy and psychotherapy services, but children and parents refer to associations, various organisations or privates. Most medical institutions do not have specialised departments, nurses and doctors for psychiatric care of children and young people, and needs are covered by departments of general psychiatry. Split and Osijek as regional centres offer the possibility of treating children in the health care system but they are not enough. Experts in these regions particularly stress the lack of the institution of a polyclinic for the protection of children of the city of Zagreb, which would protect child abuse, forensic skills, skills, studies, therapy of children and families. In order to obtain a comprehensive interdisciplinary finding and an opinion in one place, children from Slavonia and Dalmatia must mostly travel to Zagreb. Although the civil sector in Split and Osijek is taking over some of its mental health care activities, it mainly lacks resources for counselling and psychotherapy. Civil sector activities may be complemented by the work of institutions in the jurisdiction of state or local self-government, but associations cannot fully assume and must not be obliged by the State or local self-government to protect the rights, interests of children from vulnerable groups. In the health care system, I need to support the establishment of institutions of a type of child protection clinic such as in the town of Zagreb and in the Slavonian and Dalmatian region, which the Ombudsman has been trying to encourage local communities over the past few years. What is a key indicator of this need is unfortunately, according to the children's child protection clinic Zagreb, more than 47% of children come outside Zagreb, and the facilities of the institution are unable to meet the needs of children without waiting longer, and of course about the costs and the fact that children must come to Zagreb and return to either Osijek or Split are far above what is needed to protect children. The lawyer’s office reports also point to a large number of children suffering from neglect, abuse, or other traumatic experiences, especially severe cases of manipulation, emotional abuse related to conflict and divorce of parents. Therefore, there is a need for institutions to provide quality diagnostic and forensic processing of the child, its treatment and the education of other experts when research is relevant. We therefore believe that it is necessary to support the Advocate's recommendation and to ensure the establishment of institutions of this type in each region, as a matter of urgency and priority, in order for quality care to be available to children. A special part of the report is dedicated to particularly sensitive groups of children, members of national minorities, children with behavioral problems, children whose parents are in prison, children living on islands, children who are engaged in sports, and has given the Ombudsman a presentation of proposals and measures for their full protection. When it comes to children with developmental difficulties throughout the report, an inclusive approach of the Ombudsman and her associates is seen in relation to this group of children. The report shows that the Ombudsman for children and her co-workers in their offices and in other places where they are constantly participating in numerous activities and meetings with children. Special emphasis is on meeting children and listening to children's opinions. The work of a network counsellor for children is particularly highlighted and highlighted, it is commendable because children's attitudes and thinking as a guideline of the work of the office is something that absolutely we in the club of HNS support and thus kill the Ombudsman fully justifys her role as spokeswoman of children. One of the success indicators of the Ombudsman's work for children is her constant public presence. Unfortunately, the anti-active presence in the public, the presence in the media, and the emphasis of the problem, of course, with the protection of children's personality, is still needed. We will absolutely support and continue to support you as a spokesperson for children to highlight the problems that the system must make including us as a legislative body because it is one of your basic tasks, and we here in Parliament. On behalf of the HNS Club, I can make it clear that this report is in a substantive and methodological sense with its comprehensive and deep approach, that high standards have been set in the work and protection of children's rights, unfortunately not enough in the implementation, and that we must work with you as much as possible. Finally, he would refer to the new Law on the Public Ombudsman adopted at the end of the year in the Croatian Assembly, which envisions the abolition of a specialised Ombudsman for children. With our lawyer's address, the professional public and we at the HNS club show and support the arguments that such a decision would endanger the current level of child protection as the most vulnerable population. Without the existence of a specialised institution of childcare attorneys, it is not expected that systematic protection of children's rights and improvement of children's rights can be achieved, and the Office of the Ombudsman for Children has proved, too, confirmed this report that it has the potential, unfortunately and great need, the necessity for further independent action in order to raise the level of protection of children's rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8715	Thank you. SDP representative club, Ms. Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8716	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Child's Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is a high-quality and comprehensive report, and we in the Assembly women are slightly more advocates than MPs, whether it's a coincidence or because this topic about children is actually more of a woman. The question, therefore, is a recording of the situation on the plan to protect the interests and rights of children, their violations, ignoring them, and also key recommendations. The SDP Club will support this year's report, otherwise the institution of the Ombudsman for children is one of those who is constantly developing well to the satisfaction and for whom we hold the professional need to continue to be autonomous. We are in times of economic crisis, witnessing weakness in these times of parental skills and capacity for proper and healthy education. We witness children's exposure to domestic violence, school, street exposure, alcohol exposure. We're actually facing the consequences of a dysfunctional society. This report shows that often the best interests of the child are not given priority or the importance they should have, and conflicts and interests of adults almost always push away real problems and rights of the child. There are also a number of problems arising from the non-compliance of the legal rules, and the result is a harsh violation of the most fundamental human rights of children of the type to the name, to obtain the residence of a newborn child. A large number of applications continue to refer to the longevity of court processes, as well as ineffectiveness of the Centre for Social Care and Courts in Child Protection. On the other hand, many applicants are reluctant to take responsibility for the situation in which the child is located with the refusal of a professional and different opinion which, of course, brings the whole system into a stalemate position. The law does not provide preconditions for effective professional assistance when it comes to parents. The largest number of applications in 2011 as well as in previous years is somehow related to child endangerment due to conflicting family relations and ineffectiveness of child protection against violence. Compared to the previous period, the number of reports of domestic violence has increased. The number of applications in other institutions has also increased while the number of reports of violence in educational institutions has decreased. We're wondering why? It can be questioned by the fact that the higher competences of schools to respond to situations of violence at school, awareness of the problem is greater. I will give an example of good practice in local self-government where we established a college of directors, principal of primary schools where we held thematic sessions on violence. The group makes it easier to raise awareness of the problem, and the awareness of the problem is actually the first step in solving, i.e. the first step towards competence. I would also mention here the Crime Prevention Council, which is possible to establish and are probably founded in local self-governments where schools are involved, where we ourselves are, too, I personally insisted on the continued repetition of the protocol on the conduct in the event of violence. Then there is a reference to peer violence outside and around the school that takes on new forms which also pleases the development of new technologies that we have heard in previous presentations. On the other hand, the Ombudsman points out reports that the problem of violence against children and among children is trying to solve the transfer of a child, victim of violence to another class, another school. That's a very bad way because that's how the message was sent to the powerless. The victims have now been punished. They were expelled, and in this way the perpetrators were encouraged to continue to commit violence. This is certainly not in the child's best interests, and I wonder what professional associates are, or what directors have made that decision in the first place, about the competences of such directors. Hundreds of people are concerned about the nature of the instructions and advice of such professional associates who have openly acknowledged their impotence by either recommending their parents to move the victim, the victim's child, the victim of violence to another school or even moving it to insisting on parents who in fact threatened not to send children to school anymore. The waist needs to know what message he's giving, and the parents need help. So I am not surprised at any of the allegations that I will now quote from a letter from the lawyer’s parents who says: “My son did not address the disputed day to help the school staff because he had previously had negative experiences in such a way as not to solve anything in particular, but everything remains for a conversation in the teaching office or psychologist’s office or in any professional service.” And the memory of such children, the trauma remains for life. Parents also make complaints about the work of institutions, lack of sensitivity and slowness in conduct. Children have been waiting too long for processing, art, therapy, etc. The child of the victim of sexual abuse on several occasions gives evidence, additional trauma, and ultimately refuses to testify, can no longer endure. The problem is also an untimely and inappropriate response of the institution to the violence they are exposed to. We don't have time for children to wait. We need professional help on time. The inaccessibility of aid deepens the difficulties of children prone to violent behavior, which would help the early intervention to change such behavior and actually end this vicious cycle of violence. Parents' mistrust with institutions has also been shown to be encouraged by the duration of court proceedings, ineffectiveness of the social care centre in the event of a break-up of the family community, which further makes the position of the child more difficult. On the other hand, in practice, there is no small problem with the collection of alimony that unconscious parents prevent in various ways from providing incorrect data, about monthly incomes to giving up property ownership on real estate. Therefore, the conscience of employers on the urgency of delivery should be affected by the requested documents which should be responsible for the truthfulness of the data they provide. Then these are the executive procedures for the collection of alimony that lasts for years etc. These are all the comments from the parents who came to the office. It is also a dissatisfaction with bureaucratic problems of inefficient justice. All procedures in which children participate should be treated as emergency procedures because the slow resolution of complex family relationships is, in fact, directly harmful to children. In many cases, school workers have expressed dissatisfaction over the failure of the social care centre because of the ineffectiveness of the parent care control measures, and because of the abandonment of the supervisory directors in cases where the measure put forward did not immediately bring about a positive shift. But the poor effectiveness of the monitoring measure, an insufficient number of measure-makers, actually result in the long-term exposure of children to inadequate parenting procedures. You need to work with your parents either through counselling centres or through centres for, family centres in acquiring parental competence. And I agree with the recommendations you made at the end of the report that specific programmes should be developed with parents as models of good practice and educate experts to implement them. Perhaps through the collection of examples of good practice, examples of civil society, family centres, etc. Maybe in the next reports, we'll have that. We are still witnessing unfortunately that children in the time of 23 to 5 in the morning are staying out of the house, often drinking in the parks. The consequences of alcoholism on such young lives that we don't talk. In practice in the case of drinking alcohol in children is not treated as child neglect or even in cases where these children end up on emergency medical care unconsciously. There is no application system by health institutions even within the health care system, e.g. a family doctor or a school doctor will not receive information that it is a child who ended up with him on emergency medical care in an alcoholic state. Each case is treated as isolated, the only one, and in fear of harming anyone's rights experts are often confused and do not cooperate with each other. An alarming number of children were found in illicit night outings, and this is the data of over 3,000 children. That is less than in 2010 by 21.6%, however, the grey figure is certainly double perhaps even triple. But we have to see between this that 314 children are under 14 years old. And we need to know that the greatest risk of death, death in children is whether it's a car accident, overdose, alcoholised condition, etc. It's happening right now between 23 and 5 o'clock in the morning. The reasons for such underage children are often insubordination of parents or parental permission. Afterwards, social care centres are still talking to most parents about measures of family legal protection. And what do we have? We also have the Law on Trade and the Law on the Prevention of the Need of Tobacco Products, the Law on Food Activity, they all prohibit the sale, they all prohibit the use of alcoholic beverages to minors, the sale of tobacco products to minors, etc. We also have a national strategy to prevent alcohol use damage, we have national strategies to curb drug use, we have action plans, we have protocols, we have everything, but we have a problem. The question is, what about the law? The laws exist are not implemented. That's what's with them. There's another piece of information that intrigued me, which is economic inspectors when the Trade Act was investigated in 31459 cases, only 29 cases found sales to minors or when they were carrying out a verification of the Law on the Restriction of Sales of Tobacco Products 13533 were the subject's eyes, only 32 cases of sales to minors. It seems to me, or they only work at a certain time, in this way, such laws cannot be implemented. That's why we have this kind of imbalance of data that we have and the legislation that we actually have. It is exactly the same to have bad laws as to have good and quality legal provisions that are not respected or even completely ignored. It is therefore necessary to work towards greater efficiency in implementing the letters of the law or to convert what is in reality. Yet here we are talking about the consequences or the resolution of the consequences, and our goal is to solve the cause. It is strange and very irresponsible that for so long it has been resisting the introduction of health education in schools in the past government. Consciously, this government introduces a health education programme that will address all the topics that are now in the domain of preventive school programmes. An important topic in 2011 was the care of preschool children who were not covered by any form of preschool education and education, but were cared for by parents of family members and other individuals. However, a training programme for nanny interest is being implemented with the HZZ in accordance with national population policy, but as the problem is in the employment of those who completed the programme because Croatian legislation did not recognise it through the national classification of professions. The Ministry of Social Policy and Youth confirmed the importance of establishing a legal regulation in order to enable nanny employment to best protect the interests of children, as well as to justify the investment of pre-accession assistance programmes financed by the nanny programme. The ministry is also aware that the less we have grandmothers, the less and less we have those who guard them, so this need is very large. The Ombudsman points out the problem of deinstitutionalising children without adequate parental care, it is about foster care. It is alarming that for various reasons but also a lack of social care centre engagement in institutions there are children who have fulfilled all the legal assumptions for adoption but cannot be found for them. In this direction, the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth is also working on making a register of foster parents and the Household Act, which will be quickly in the parliamentary procedure. And I end up with someone's quote "Children's life, their growing up, their developmental needs and changes in society don't allow us to just wait for reports of individual injuries and explore their founding and thus help children who address us already encourage us to take a proactive performance and act on the welfare of children in general". And in the end, I appeal to each of us to examine what kind of parents we are, what kind of politicians we are, what kind of representatives of local, regional self-government, or how much of our work are children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8717	Thank you very much. Ms. Vishny Fortuna's representative's club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8718	Dear Vice President, esteemed attorneys with associates, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. Each country is pleased to boast of all those measures and reliefs intended for children. The achieved level of social care for children as a sensitive group in each society is exactly the identity of its humanity and democracy, as well as the confirmation of its focus on the future. Therefore, state bodies and institutions that are obliged to care for the needs and rights of children seek to report as closely as possible what has been done and what improvements have been achieved in the protection of children. But what we often miss is that other look, from the perspective of the child who sees and what is not done, problems that are not solved and weaknesses of the system that prevents the achievement of the best interests of children. It is therefore very important that we have an institution that will point to us from this very perspective, a child perspective that has been enabling us from the Ombudsman's report for children over the past years. Based on numerous direct addresses of parents, children, professionals working with children and others, and cooperation with institutions, associations and local communities, there has been a report that provides a true picture of how and how much in practice they really protect children's rights in Croatia, how much our national plans and strategies are really passed on to real life. This report shows us that the weakest places to protect children are conflicting family relations in which child manipulation is often used as a means of accounting between parents and violence against children and children because the state still does not have effective mechanisms to prevent such violations of children's rights. The maximum number of applications by the attorney general for children is related to these particular problems. Body punishment is still accepted, unfortunately, in our society. Many children suffer both as victims of peer violence and as victims of adult violence, but also as victims of the untimely and inappropriate response of institutions to the violence they are exposed to. The professional assistance they need and what they need most because of the lack of experts often does not arrive on time or is completely lagging behind. The relevant professional assistance is not given to children who are prone to violence and whom early professional interventions would help to change behaviour and their difficulties only deepen. And so continues what we call the vicious cycle of violence in which the victims of violence and neglect become actually tomorrow violent. There is more violence against children committed via the Internet and cell phones, and the Ombudsman warns that violent behavior models are what children learn from us adults, what they see in everyday life around them and in the media. Although many talk about prevention, quality and effective preventive programmes have been underimplemented. The situation of children makes it difficult for parents to trust institutions, especially long - term court procedures that should be rushed whenever children are concerned. The Ombudsman’s report also shows how the situation of a child found in the judicial proceedings during the divorce of his parents or as a witness or victim of a criminal proceedings really seems to be in practice. Some of these descriptions will fill us with discomfort because it turns out that even young children are unnecessarily questioned in court repeatedly, that sometimes they have to testify in the presence of indictees, that they do not care about their age at all, and that they are not provided with the protection they must have because they are only children. We find out all the ways in which poverty affects children and in which all areas of the country's assistance is necessary in order for health care and education to be available to each child. We also learn that despite plans and strategies, a large number of children remain without adequate parental care in institutions where they have stayed for more than 4 years instead of being fostered, adopted or returned to their parents. The process of deinstitutionalisation is being carried out too slowly because of the insufficient development of foster care institutes, and there are many children who could be adopted, but they cannot be found adequate adoptors. The rights of children to health care cannot be achieved in permanent care departments, and this also refers in particular to worryingly poor and cramped conditions in those departments where children are treated with malignant diseases, as well as lack of spatial and human resources to protect the mental health of children. Much more needs to be done to improve the position of children of national minorities, especially Roma children, to support them in education and to act more actively to remove prejudice in the majority population. Otherwise, it is necessary to increase the availability of quality education and education to every child in all environments, to encourage their educational achievements and to establish a system of evaluation of the work of educators and their licensing and to strengthen the capacity of inspection professional pedagogical supervisory services. In order to achieve the greater involvement of children with developmental difficulties in regular educational institutions, further sensitisation and education of educators and teachers and sublegal acts are needed to define their educational rights, the status of assistants in the course and the like. And we hope that the school will be introduced and the health care care counselling she has been recommending for years, as of last year, the network of young counsellors for children. The Ombudsman also warns of a number of areas where laws still do not cover all important areas of child protection or guarantee a full level of protection such as the protection of children from sexual exploitation and abuse or the safety of children in playgrounds and playgrounds, which often make children tragic victims. It is also warned that many regulations do not apply or apply only partially. These warnings and proposals should be used as an incentive and a basis for amending and adopting new legal and sublegal acts, i.e. to improve the supervision of their implementation. The Ombudsman also reminds us of the need to protect children's rights in the media as well as the importance of the active participation of children in society, especially in making decisions concerning children. And we adults have to make it possible for them and empower them to really participate in these decision-making. The report also highlights the achieved improvements in respect and the protection of children's rights, and the system's weaknesses described should only encourage us to think and act, help us to understand what it means that in all actions aimed at children, we must give priority to the best interests of the child, to which the Convention on the Rights of the Child finally obliges us. I would also like to remind you that, at the end of last year, a new Law on the Public Ombudsman was adopted in the Croatian Parliament, which censures the independence of specialised defenders and so does the Ombudsman for children. In February of this year, the Constitutional Court ruled that the law could not enter into force. This actually enables us to think again, to think more carefully about whether joining a child's lawyer with a civil defender is a good solution, if we really want to ensure better protection of children's rights, and I'm sure we want to. It is hard to imagine that such a detailed representation of the state of children's rights in all areas of children's lives could be obtained from a unique institution that protects the human rights of all citizens. It is unlikely that, within all the competences of such an institution, it could be so profoundly and extensively explored and address all the important topics concerning only children, and most importantly, it is difficult to imagine that such an institution would recognize children as protectors of their rights. All of these are reasons why the club of HSU will support the report on the work of the Ombudsman for children from 2011. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8719	Thank you. Representatives' Club Croatian Labour Party, Ms. Nancei Tyreli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8720	Dear Vice President, Ms. Attorney General with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to start my one question exposure, do you know how to save and eat five meals a day for 41 kuna? If you don't know the answer to that question, then you can ask the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. Namely, this amount of the ministry daily amounts to 5 meals, heating, hygiene and everything else needed for special school residents Licef Ragun in Labin, who stayed in it for 24 hours. The school is where I want to point out all the absurd rights of children in Croatia, respecting the full report of the Ombudsman for children whom the club of Croatian Labourists as such and supports. We hear daily about how to engage these children and allow them to stay with their peers in normal schools, under normal circumstances. Such a wish is certainly welcome, but it cannot be implemented in part and only to reduce the costs of the resolution ministries, and ultimately to the harm of all these children and society as a whole. Special schools dealing with raising and education of children with intellectual difficulties in the management of various ministries and those of science, education and sports, and that of health care and that of social policy and youth. If we want to integrate such children into normal schools, I wonder if we've thought about whether it's possible for all the children in such schools right now. Do we then have in schools where we are thinking of putting them into frames trained to work with such children or we somehow simply thought that teachers working in schools might not work enough anyway, so now it is time to work a little more anyway, so at least they will thus reduce the percentage of the unemployed in Croatia that the first Deputy Prime Minister is talking about. 25% of children with special needs do not receive the necessary professional assistance from their earliest age. It's only when the kid goes to school that we start thinking of him as a society, so we want to socialize him, and until that moment, we've left everything to parents who didn't know how to deal with him for reasons they didn't know, and that nobody thought they needed to be taught. When such a child is placed in a special school, it is a traumatic experience for the whole family, not just for him who has watched only a few of the same faces around him for 7 years. And when we set him up, then we start counting how much it costs us, and somehow we realize that the amount is too much, so we decide to cut off a child like that in those special schools and nurses, because his diaper can eventually change the maid who works at that same school. And what else can we do, and that we can also determine how much such a child can be the most in school and figure out that five school hours with vacations of 4 hours and 20 minutes is enough. But how teachers must work with such a child, and psychologists, and defectologists, and logos, and all the rest of them realize that they cost something too, so we decide they're ready to engage. And we tell our parents to take them to school tomorrow instead of this school across the street where they'll be better off because they'll have more friends there. We forget in that calculation to think if at school across the street we have all profiles of experts who need such a child, would his housekeeper change his diaper too? Do we have a profile of an expert who will know how to solve a problem when a 12-year-old girl begins to hurt a new friend in a bench next to herself or herself? Do we even have the right to ask the school's teachers to suddenly master all these new skills ahead of them? But the fundamental question before we decided to send such a child to school across the street, did we prepare learning and their parents for new and slightly different schoolmates? How are we going to defend ourselves against a parent attack when he tells us that his child failed to learn how many times he was three times seven because another child in the class was so screaming that he was not simply able to focus, and these are the things that happen every day. The problem is so complex, so painful that everyone needs to get hurt, not just those who have to deal with such problems every day. And in that problem somehow one absurdity kills another absurd. The founder of such an institution is the city, and the money for its financing of the city is given to the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, which then amounts to a jury account of the school in some sort of monthly annuities. And these are minimally decentralised funds from which the school still has to pay for the insurance of a building that is also owned by the city, and not to mention repairing all those very sneezing roofs and so on. These children are therefore exclusively on the burden of one ministry, but their status falls under both the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Social Affairs, but apparently among the three ministries there is so much noise in communication that ultimately these children are just a statistical figure that costs as such. There is, however, one part of a one-way communication between the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and the Ministry of Social Affairs when parents have to pay back the money for the disability they received for their child. In fact, one ministry said that such a child could be in school for 4 hours and 20 minutes. It's the Ministry of Education, and the other ministry said that if she's more than four hours old, the parent loses the right to part of the disability. And so the Ministry of Social Policy immediately deprives that part of the money for the whole calendar year because the child is in school imagine as much as 20 minutes more than he has the right to. It is then up to parents to take into the hands of the study calendar at the beginning of the year and calculate exactly how many Saturdays and Sundays, how many school holidays, and on this basis they want to get their disability funds back for those days when their child will still be at home with them instead. This problem is so big that I don't have enough time to say all his weight and everything that happens in schools like this, kids like this and their parents. And it's not just the kids in Labin. The problem is all children with special needs in Croatia and it is not their problem. That's our problem, and that's how we have to figure it out and somehow try to solve it. The first step in all this should be to coordinate the resolution ministries in addressing the problem of children with special needs and otherwise the problem as such will never be fully resolved. What about those kids who aren't in the school system, and they need help from them and their families. Have we considered establishing a mobile professional team of experts who will educate all these families in their home and provide them with socio-psychological assistance in order to be as ready for the challenges they expect when their child goes to school? What about kids who can't go to that nice and good school across the street anyway? Not only must we think about it, but we must resolve it because the illnesses and needs of these children are not just theirs. It's a disease of family and society as a whole. How much better or worse our diagnosis depends only on our will and determination whether we want to be healthy or not. We don't need quotes. Our best quotes are ours just like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8721	Thank you. Now we'll interrupt the session, continue tomorrow at 9.30 with a debate on behalf of the HDZ Club, Mrs. Branka Juričev Martinchev. So tomorrow at 9.30 we continue the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8722	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue to discuss the 2011 report on the work of the Ombudsman for children. It's a club debate. It is up to HDZ club and distinguished representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8723	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Attorney, colleagues and colleagues, although not in such a large number on this left. The HDZ Club will support the 2011 Public Ombudsman Report for Children. It's quality and exhaustive. The work of the office shows continuous progress in almost all segments of child rights protection and promotion, shows real concern and sensitivity to children. This is the only office that has its own facilities at regional level in Split, Rijeka and Osijek. It is commendable that the door of the office is open to children and they come and inform themselves of their rights and present their proposals. In recent years, the office has developed as a specialised institution with a specialized interdisciplinary team that actively includes children in its work. I would like to point out that the Ombudsman is not, that the call is being made to children and young people who are open by 5 June to 25 new members for a two-year period during which children and young people can apply to the network of young counselors and to include help to make the voice of children more widely heard in society and to take a clearer look at their needs. We are pleased in the HDZ that the conclusion of this report states that despite the weaknesses and failures that have occurred, it must be pointed out that many moves have been made in Croatia to respect and protect human rights and protect children. However, problems and cases of violations of children's rights have been highlighted. It is thus the most common violation of children's rights, the right to parents, and violence and neglect in the family. Then the family instead of protecting the child becomes the greatest burden and problem in their lives. With regard to maintenance, the less number of infringements of rights than in the past years are happy, but it has certainly contributed to the provision of free legal assistance to children and support procedures. They are often manipulative behaviors of one or both parents, preventing encounters with another parent who is also a form of psychological violence. In these cases the problem is also the inequality and practice of the social care centre. In the field of parental care, the complaint concerns the length of the proceedings. Cases of violations of children's rights via the Internet and mobile networks have been highlighted. The latest survey by the Faculty of Economics in Split showed that children use the daily Internet between 6 and 7 hours. This problem needs special attention. As a result, it is difficult to determine where the line between freedom and violation of freedom crosses. There is a need to increase education in children but also in parents to protect their children. The report thus touches and deals with issues of peer violence, unauthorized nightouts, insurance of assistants in the follow-up of children with developmental difficulties, the safety of children in school transport, the safety of children on playgrounds and playgrounds, protection of the rights of children engaged in sports, the right of children to participate in cultural artistic activities, sports, games and recreation, insufficient investment in the content of leisure time that deprives children of valuable development incentives, etc. Each of these problems could be discussed, suggested, cited examples, and criticised by all of us for denying it to all children. We all agree that children should be provided more on all these issues. However, the solution to most of these problems whether it is a derivative school or an inappropriate space for kindergarten, children who do not have the opportunity to train in the sports hall need financial resources, and unfortunately they are less and less, whether it is a state budget, county, city or municipal. I wonder, I ask all of you, and I ask you, Madam Attorney, the report among other things says, "In many smaller places on islands and in newly built city towns there are no kindergartens. There are growing problems in the allocation of funds for the construction and equipment of kindergartens, and later in co-financing of the stay of children in kindergarten." Do we plan and accept that we have this same observation in the 2012 reports, 2013, 2014 and so on, or do we think that these problems will solve themselves. How are we going to solve the problems that we face today? Do you think gentlemen ruling that there would have been a visible shift in the work of the attorney general for children if there had been no government cooperation and hearing to solve all these problems? I'm afraid the weather is different. My colleagues, you who raised your hand for the 2012 budget with projections for 2013, don't you know that on many items you have significantly damaged and affected children's lives? Don't you think 350 million kunas that you less singled out for primary and secondary education, health care, social care and so forth won't affect children's lives? We'll all agree to that, for example. the child on the island is in an unequal position with respect to other children, especially in all matters, transport connections, education and education, health care, leisure organisations, etc. But when something needs to be done for those same kids, then let's forget all this. My colleagues and colleagues, did you think of those children when you raised your hand to single out in 2012 as much as 68% less for building social infrastructure facilities on Croatian islands? And that was a small savings. Then, for the development of the Adriatic islands this year, you predicted 56% less than before. There is a growing awareness among experts of the importance of prevention, but you, and when it comes to prevention of opinions, are that this is an item to be saved on. That's how you plan a 15 per cent reduction for him every year. There's no happy child in a dissatisfied family. Children and their growth and development are significantly affected by the lives and work of their parents, and in recent months the dissatisfaction has increased, from VAT growth, electricity prices, gas, reductions in various reliefs, benefits, enforcement of parents' resources to layoffs and record numbers of unemployed. All these problems reflect the life of a child. When a decision is made regarding us adults is unacceptable not to be asked, however, when decisions are made regarding children and young people, we forget it, and it is precisely this office's mission to care and to have children increasingly present in society, to change their views on their participation. The job of the Ombudsman for children is to take care of comprehensive protection and children, all segments of children's life to look at the whole, to warn those responsible if something does not work in that whole, to seek a better approach to protection, to insist on the efficiency of the resistor. Therefore, respected colleagues and colleagues, especially you ruling, you who praise this report and warn what should be done so that these remarks should not be in the reports and in the coming years, do not forget children, these topics and problems when the budget is proposed when different laws are proposed. Don't waste it on the kids again. We all still remember your time when you abolished and reduced your rights to births and parents. I am also the mother who gave birth to her third child in 2000 and still remembers the savings of the Government of the Republic of Croatia from 2001 to 2003. We are aware of the situation in which we live, but it must certainly not endanger the lives and development of our children. If we can't single out any more, let's not single out any less. The HDZ Club will support this report. Dear Madam Attorney, all praise for your work so far, but we ask you on behalf of children and young people not to allow these governments to feel children and young. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8724	Thank you. The positions of the HDSSB Representatives Club will be presented by the distinguished representative Igor Cešek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8725	Honorable attorneys, vice president, colleagues and fellow MPs. The HDSSB Club will certainly support the Ombudsman's report for children because it really shows that the Ombudsman's Office is active and that all available means of fighting for the protection of children's rights. The declaration of the rights of the child says: humanity owes the child everything it can give. We must have that sentence written in our minds and act accordingly. According to the 2009 National Statistics Institute estimates, 934200 children and adolescents lived in Croatia in the Republic of Croatia, which accounts for 21.1% of the population of the Republic of Croatia, which places it in the country with a relatively low share of children in the total population. And 50 years ago, in 1961, children accounted for 27.2% of the population. In 1991, the Republic of Croatia entered the depopulation phase and this phase is still ongoing, and statistics suggest that Croatian society is getting old and that the population is falling over time. Due to the depopulation of rural areas, there are significant differences in population concentration between rural areas and large Croatian cities. The reduction of these differences should be the basic task of Croatia's demographic recovery because a large share of the rural population lives on the edge of poverty, and poverty contributes to the basic rights of the child being violated. Children at high risk of poverty are children in families without employees, children in families who receive permanent cash compensation and children from single-parent low-income families. Unfortunately, most children living in conditions of poverty live in Slavonia and central Croatia. These popular measures by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, such as VAT hikes, an increase in electricity prices, will certainly do nothing good to prevent this poverty. I'm going to mention some of the basic rights of the child. Children have the right to be with their family or with those who will take care of them best, children have the right to living standards, children have the right to health care, children have the right to play games, children have the right to free schooling, children have the right to be safe and not to be hurt or neglected, children have the right to express their opinion and socialize with other children to express their views. Just in order to protect children's rights, the Office of the Attorney General must in no case be attached to any other office such as any attempt. In 2011, the Ombudsman’s Office for Children received 1054 written applications, and most of these applications, 636 related to infringements of the children’s personal rights and that 306 applications concerned the right to live with parents and parental care. The majority of applications in this area remain related to issues related to the achievement of parental care content, 218 of them affected by a total of 299 children. A significant number of subjects, i.e. 159, refer to the protection of children in the education system, but there is also a number of reports of violation of the economic rights of children and judicial protection of children's rights. The Office of UNICEF in the Republic of Croatia in cooperation with the Institute of Social Sciences "Ivo Pilar" and in cooperation with the Office of the Ombudsman for Children has issued a publication entitled "Assessment of the Status of Children's Rights and Women in the Republic of Croatia" in which the data is widely explained and supported by the state of children and women in the Republic of Croatia and such publication is truly commendable. According to various conventions, children have a whole range of rights and are covered by all rights that should allow children to grow up normally and develop, but the fact is that in our case, sometimes personal rights of children are violated, and mostly not by the public, nor by the institutions responsible for sanctioning the offenders of these rights are not familiar with the violation of these rights. In this comprehensive report, the Ombudsman’s office has detailed certain cases, but it is still necessary to work to sensitize the public or to get familiar with all the rights of children and if it is observed that there is a violation of those rights that warns the relevant institutions because the Ombudsman himself admits that there is a lack of public awareness. There is also a lack of will from the part of adults to accept the possibility of a child’s voice being heard in society and their opinions being respected. Such negative views are based on the issue of children's rights and the lack of skills needed to build relations with children based on mutual understanding and respect. So it is very important to teach adults that children are born with fundamental freedoms and rights of all human beings. It is also important to help parents create a family environment where children can benefit from their rights. The first and basic tasks of all those responsible for the protection of children's rights should be to promote parental parenting because an unfavourable family environment and parental procedures can be negatively reflected in the social, emotional and physical development of a child, and due to lack of parental responsibility, there is a poor mental health of children who, in most cases, either become withdrawn, unsocialised or their behaviour is at least inappropriate and problematic. Besides parents, there are educational institutions with great responsibility for normal adulthood. A good part of the time children spend in school, and the amazing fact is that one part, I note, is part of the education sector’s experts, marginalizes children’s rights, so very often in front of peer violence that takes place nearby or directly in schools closes their eyes and does nothing. I had a conversation with a girl who attended the 5th grade and I wanted to hear her thoughts and her attitudes and I learned these problems from those conversations. She has the most trouble with the weight of a school bag that weighs 9 kg and is too heavy for a 5th grade girl and has to walk from house to school on an unlit road that is particularly dangerous in winter when she comes home from second shift. To address such problems, the local community must be involved and listen to children and their problems. In addition to parents and schools, she has a huge role in raising children and protecting their rights and how she spends her free time. They should be encouraged to participate in free activities because they build social relations, achieve additional skills and knowledge. Studies show that the environment of children determines the way it spends its free time and that rural children have poor opportunities for free activities. Such children, especially those of high school age, are often found in bookies, so at least 83% of high school students visited the bookies once. Very often you can see them in cafes with a bottle of alcohol and a gambling machine. More needs to be included in the work of the State Inspectorate in preventing the sale of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products to minors, and we know that these products are very easily available to minors. I'm going to finish discussing this report with one proverb that says that child's life is like a piece of paper everyone leaves notes on. Let us all try to make these notes pleasant to our children so that each child can eventually write a beautiful book of his life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8726	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first in line is Honorable Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8727	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Ms. Attorney for Children with Associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, I think this report is very important. It's very important because it deals with those who are the smallest and most vulnerable in our society, and these are children right now. And the kids are our future, and that's why we have to take care of them. But also because every society is as strong as its weakest. If our children are strong, if they are protected, if they enjoy their rights and consume them then so are we, well arranged and strong society. Children have their different developmental needs manifested in their lives, depending on their birth - giving abilities, but also on the society in which they live. Of course, all social changes will affect children, but it is up to us as a responsible state but also as responsible individuals to ensure them a peaceful, dignified and encouraging early life, the earliest. So, a peaceful, dignified and stimulating development period. Also, what children need most, and what you probably all know is love. And it's parental love and a stimulating and protected warm family atmosphere. Unfortunately, we can't guarantee them, but we can ensure that those children who don't have it to protect them, that we try to make up for it even though parental love can't be compensated for anything, but we try to compensate for those shortcomings that they in life, especially in their earliest life, feel very much. If you ask me part of the answer to this problem, the last problem I mentioned lies in education. Because, ladies and gentlemen, in order to do some work, you have to finish some school, you have to finish some college, you have to have a degree. Parents can be everyone, and that's also the right of all of us, but also the basic need of us as human beings, biological beings, the need for procreation, for reproduction, for parenting. What we can do is educate the future parents, and the current children. Give them certain skills and skills that parents need. The basics of psychology and pedagogy that they should have if they want to give their child a quality, encouraging life, but of course true family love. Because family love is extremely important, but it can't make up for some things. But life without family love is the hardest thing and I daren't imagine how difficult it is. We also read about violence among youths, violent behavior, behavioral disorders, and the like. I'd say it's just symptoms. So these aren't the causes themselves. These are symptoms that there's something wrong with these kids. In the sense that they don't have a warm enough family atmosphere, that they're missing something in life. And it's a cry for help, it's an appeal for help to all institutions. Therefore, from teachers, teachers, teachers, educators, and others who are in contact with that child almost daily to parents and other institutions who must take this appeal seriously and must take it seriously. But do not act restrictively but try to find out what the problem is and then really help that child. Because it's in the interest of all of us to help these kids. But this violence, behavioral disorders, and the like are just as I said the symptom, but the cause is deeper social problems. Not necessarily an economic crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, if we remember our earliest years of life, we'll remember that we've all grown up in some difficult and violent times, times of crisis, economic stabilisation, as it was then called. I, in the time before the war and the porn that we all know was hard because of the Homeland War, is because of the consequences he left behind. But we've all evolved into some complete and rounded person. This, of course, helped our families, but therefore the crisis and changes in society are not the only cause of these problems, and I believe that this should also be pointed out. As for the current hypocritical concern of the HDZ colleagues, I can only remind them of something, in the last session of ladies and gentlemen, you have advocated the law by which all the defense attorneys would unite. This government and this club won't do it just because we believe that the Attorney General's Office for Children is extremely important, extremely important because it's here to protect our youngest and our most vulnerable. As is the Ombudsman for people with disabilities, gender equality, etc. To conclude, I would also like to conclude with a personal commendation to the attorney general for the children and her pronoun, since I've been getting the circumstances and I've had contact with children who've had problems. When I spoke to your institution, you were very quick, very quick and professionally, and thank you very much. Thank you on my behalf, thank you on behalf of those kids that I hope we helped or hope we've at least tried to help. That's why I'm going to support this report and I'm calling on all my colleagues and colleagues to support it, because this is just a small part of the way we can help our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8728	Thank you, too. This debate of yours prompted a respected colleague, Stjepan Milinikovic, on the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8729	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Hajduković, so you spoke well on several occasions, reiterated that children are our future that they should be provided with the conditions and absolutely in this I agree, but you said that they needed to ensure a coherent family life, I remembered well and before 15 days ago when we moved the question of the family into the debate about the aided fertilisation then you thought differently. And the other thing is, you were talking about terms, and I want to invite you here to be consistent. Please be nice when the budget is voted, when the funds are reduced to units of local and regional self-government, please nice, which provide children's kindergartens. In particular, in my community I have two kindergartens that are free, here you raise your hand for that part, then talk about hypocrisy, please dear colleague, also who reduced the child's allowance at a certain time? You know, you can do more nicely with nice words like this, but you say more than one word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8730	We will also hear a reply to the replica of the esteemed colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8731	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's how we keep going back in time, and I'm also a historian like this by profession, so I like to go back a little bit, though recently. I'm glad we agree on these things, but also if you listened to me carefully in the introduction I said that one of our basic needs as human beings is the need to reproduce, the need for families, and the Law on a medically assisted family is just that. To give the chance to those who can't do it the usual way, to have children, to have children, to love those children, to grow up in families who will love them. But as far as local self-government units are concerned, just to remind you in 2010, you took nearly a billion kuna away from local self-government units by changing income tax, income tax rates. Here's just so much about fast. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8732	We're continuing an individual debate. Dear colleague Ana Comparić Devčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8733	Thank you, Vice President, esteemed attorneys with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I will also join in my debate with all those colleagues who praised this report of yours. I also think that the report is extremely well written, that it tells us about the state of our society in relation to children, what difficulties and problems children face in their daily lives, but I will look particularly at the two parts of this chapter that seem extremely important to me, and which way seems to me to skip a lot, somehow quickly go over some segments. One part that your colleagues talked about and you talked about in the introduction of a lot of things, which is violence in educational institutions, and this report reads that therefore applications are actually down from 2010, but what we can see from our media every day is the fact that it exists and that this society has not found a way to deal with violence in educational educational institutions. What you yourself have stated in this report you say is that educational institutions where children should feel protected and certainly always, rarely become the scene of this violence, and what can be read is the fact that our teachers, our teachers, our principals, but unfortunately not professional teams are somehow ready in a new way to violence among young people, and these are these violences through facebooks and cell phones and the Internet. What is particularly worrying is this violence that arises, which has fatal consequences. It seems to me that for this society, this behavior of young people cannot be acceptable and that we should work very hard to prevent violence among young people. Somehow we get the impression that we've lost one whole generation of young people, that we've forgotten to work with them on education, more education as well, but somehow lost education to all those educational institutions, from kindergartens, through primary and secondary schools. It seems to me as if parents have failed, but also schools, but also social services, and somehow we have a generation today that, unfortunately, I'm not saying it's a general rule, but it has to kill someone's hairstyle, or someone because they've given the kuna, not two kunas, and then what's happening to us is the fact that this trial takes a very long time and that we're not sending a good message, because if we've been waiting for a verdict for three years, then what kind of message we've sent to whoever killed, and to whoever killed himself, or to the parents, or to the young people. So I appeal to the judiciary, first of all, that these judgments are made within about six months, because then it makes sense and it has a message. So the report reads to read that we need education, education both as a teacher and as a parent, and mostly as children themselves. And the other part that I wanted to talk about is, what you're just in the report is just kind of going through it quickly, it's about young people and sports. What I've read from this report of yours is that, in fact, there's little anyone in this big area who's dealing with it. We kind of neglected, in principle we all agree that sports is an excellent form of prevention, that sport is needed for healthy psychophysical development of a child. But then when you ask specific questions, you don't get concrete answers. You've asked a number of questions that I can tell the truth I'm a longtime sports employee and I haven't really thought about some of the things that you've shown me in this report. For example, when children can deal with martial arts. And what I noticed in your report is that the World Medical Assembly and the American Pediatric Academy are looking for a ban on boxing and some similar martial arts because these children have more frequent brain injuries than the rest of their generation. And I see that you didn't get an answer from the HO, from the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, or from the National Sports Council. You got something from the doctor's staff and they're opposed to boxing. And I'm going to conclude from all that that's actually what I said at the beginning with this problem, and these are kids and sport is actually not about anyone. In principle, we all do, and in fact, no one does. And since it is now in the public debate that the amendments and additions of the Sport Act I appeal to you to actively engage, to send all your comments which are read from this report and thus try to regulate the problems that your parents face legally, because in fact everything you write in your report remains the decision and responsibility of your parents, and I believe that the system must provide answers to these questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8734	Thank you, too. I now give my word to the esteemed representative, Nadci Jesash.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8735	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Ombudsman for the children with co-workers, respected colleagues and colleagues. I actually imagined this debate today completely different from what I'm going to do. In fact, some events have led me to change in the last two days that have been talked about a lot in the media and between us. So it's about this year's national high school graduation. In turn, high school students showed great dissatisfaction, disappointment, and I would say even shock because they faced questions and concepts that they had not actually heard during their 12 years of schooling. So this state prom wanted to give them one message, and that message is very embarrassing, that our high school students, so that graduates are actually big ignorant at the end of 12 years. However, what I have to say is that even the people of the profession have agreed that the state's graduation is perceived in this way, from the very beginning, inappropriate, that it is too difficult and that it represents a kind of experience over children. I will say that we are obviously not far from Croatian State Prom becoming what is in China so-called. It's like... it's like... it's like... it's like... it's like... it's like... it's like... it's like... it's like... it's like... it's like... it's like... it's like... it's like... it's like... it's I've been reading about it these days. It is the most stressful exam in the world testing the entire knowledge acquired from enrolment in kindergarten until the end of high school. So, Chinese high school students learn for days until they're exhausted for that test from morning to late in the night, and when they start to faint from the effort, they're given the amino acid infusion and that infusion imagine being subsidized by the state. So the state and state institutions know what's going on with the children, and obviously they both support it. After receiving the infusion, students continue to study with these bottles above their heads, and it is no wonder that at the time of both learning and passing tests of events and suicide. The peak of this terrible practice is next. The one who tries to rewrite life has been marked because this data is being entered into a public database that is being put to the attention of all employers in China. I ask the question is that the goal we aim at in Croatia? Is that what we want for our children in Croatia? We live in a time when everyone has to be the best, when everyone has to be the smartest, no one has to be unspeakable, and no one can afford to be unambitious. It's only a matter of excellence, only fives ensure the future. Sickly ambitious parents drive children from school daily for instructions, with instruction on football or swimming, swimming for ballet or playing pianos and remind them that they have given them everything. But the only truth is that parents don't hang out with children, that they're too busy getting the material, not talking to children, just serving them on their way to success. We think that we've given our children everything, and we've actually denied them ourselves, their parents. And what's going on with the kids? The kids forgot about the game and staying in the fresh air, they're playing station generation and they only have virtual friends, they often get headaches. So we hear ten-year-olds drink coffee regularly. Everything is necessary and everything is subordinated to achieving excellent results. And then we wonder as parents and as a society of escalating peer violence, we marvel at their tendency to alcohol, smoking, drugs, we're concerned about Internet violence and Internet pedophilia. A few days ago, I have to mention Minister Jovanovic revealed data on our children's food and smoking habits from 11 to 15 years of age. The data is not surprising, they are worrying and frightened, they are frighteningly frightened, and they are saying that children of that age are too fat, and by obesity take a high seventh place among the peers of 41 countries where this research has been done. 20% of these kids started smoking already in primary school. So, every fifth child has been smoking since primary school. An equal percentage of children, so 20% never brushes their teeth. 76% of these children have no vegetables, and 66% have no fruit in their menu. We can add some more of this information. The percentage of children alcohol consumption in Croatia is growing faster than this percentage is growing in Europe. Also, data from the analysis of the state of children's and women's rights in Croatia produced by the Institute "Ivo Pilar" for the purposes of UNICEF say that the percentage of the birth of adolescents is therefore between 15 and 19 years in Croatia at about 4% and that is much more than the average in the EU. And I'm asking another question, which of us colleagues and colleagues can say after this data that he doesn't support the introduction of health care at school? And in the end, I would like to say a few words about a very specific problem in the field that is being discussed in this report, but I am going to elaborate it a little bit wider. It is a lack of preschool institutions, therefore kindergartens, especially in rural areas, but more is the model of funding for preschool age system, which is currently entirely on the back of units of local self-government. For the state, Croatian children under the age of 7 as if they did not exist. The state is beginning to recognize them and follow them in primary school, high school, higher education, but in preschool education Croatia does not recognize its children. We know that preschool education is extremely important because just before school, the child adopts the most educational habits, as many recent research shows that the most habit of a child acquires and adopts it right up to the third year of his life. And because preschool education is funded by local self-government units, it is a huge financial burden for their budgets, especially since the original revenues of local and regional self-government have been reduced in the last two years. Very often, after the cost of financing kindergartens or preschool institutions in the budgets remains almost nothing to meet other needs of citizens in local self-government units. What I want to point out further is that there are huge differences in kindergarten prices. For example, the economic price of the largest number of kindergartens in the municipalities and cities of Međimurje County, where I come from, is around 1,000 kuna, with 50% co-financed by parents and 50% by waste costs on local self-government units. It is important to stress this, and I particularly point out that the average salary in Međimurje County is 25% lower than the national average. On the other hand, in Zagreb as a unit of the district self-government, the kindergarten parents cost much less. I don't know how much it is now after these recent changes but it's definitely much less, because I know that 400 kuna, I know that for a time there was only 200 kuna, and I still have to compare it to the average salary in Zagreb which is 25 to 30% higher than the national average. So imagine the situation in which the citizens of Croatia remained in relation to Zagreb? Therefore, pre-school funding must have more uniform criteria, such huge differences on the ground are unacceptable, but changes will not occur if part of the burden of pre-school education financing on its back does not take over the state or if part of the funds does not drop the increased share of funds to local self-government units. And finally, I'd like to say that Mrs. Attorney General's report is excellent. That's what I said on the Committee on Gender Equality, and I'm all for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8736	Thank you. We have a single replica on this exhibit. Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8737	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Jelash, I agree with most of your debate, and I'm a little surprised by the twist you've made. Let's say 15 days ago when you were talking in this High House about medically assisted insemination then you said different values, and now here you are, in some way, advocating family values and child care from that level. But on the other hand, you encouraged me to a replica in the part where you said preschools, so in local self-government units, mostly in the country. I absolutely agree that it is necessary to ensure equal conditions both in the country and in each environment. But I want to tell you how you can explain to me as an economist when the budget for this year units of local self-government have been denied so much resources, and in what way, I ask you nicely. If we add that the country to agriculture is treated as it relates, that the support has been kind of reduced, that the economic situation in the country is very difficult and complex. In these circumstances, how do we ensure equal conditions? For me, it's kind of a discriminatory relationship to the rural environments that you're defending, of course, everyone, and we need to ensure the same conditions for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8738	Thank you. The replica will be answered by respected representative Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8739	Dear fellow Milinkovic, these remarks of yours are sweet, but since the malts do not make every pot a lid they start slowly and irritable. In fact, I am a terrible representative of family values and I am asking you whether your family is just what we consider a classic family. In my opinion, the family and life of a parent with a child. It's something you unfortunately don't respect. And as far as medically assisted fertility is concerned, this law is strictly intended for infertile parents, and you parents also see wanting children.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8740	The debate will now include respected representative Dunja Spoljar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8741	Thank you, Vice President. Lawyers with associates, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. Here, I'll start with a few quotes from the daily press. "The sixth-grade student accidentally ran an older boy into the kitchen, and this one took him by the head and threatened to see his god. At one point he tripped and fell on the floor and then the older boy repeatedly hit him with his knee to the head." The following is: "The young bully threatened the girls first, then cut one with a rusty knife on the face and the other on the neck. They've been out of school ever since." Next: "At about 14.30 p.m. yesterday in the courtyard of a high school 19th year, without any reason, he physically attacked a 16-year-old student of that school. On that occasion, he repeatedly handed him over to the head and the body and forced him to kneel, and then continued to hit him with his knee and elbow to his head and body." "The 8th grade elementary school student beat the 4th grade twice in three days by giving him a lighter concussion." It's our reality. What exactly is peer violence? It's an aggressive act when there's disproportionate power and power and it's an act that repeats itself. It may be physical abuse, verbal or indirect abuse, such as exclusion from the group, gossip is another and I must point out that children have declared this the last most painful violence and experience. Peer violence is a major problem in primary and secondary schools in Croatia. research is about 100,000 students exposed to peer violence, and the negative consequences are all involved in violence, including observers, which significantly increases that figure. How, then, do you solve the problem of peer violence? We need to create general conditions, first of all, what I want to underline, awareness. Adults at school and at home must recognize the existence of the problem of the bully or the victim at their school. In order to develop an effective prevention programme, it is necessary to collect data on specific opportunities for a specific school. Therefore, another general prerequisite is the decision of adults, i.e. the staff of schools and parents or local communities, to engage in solving the problem. On the ground, it is often possible to meet with poor information from students, parents and teachers about the opportunities offered, where and what help they can get, how to react, who to address, how effective the programs and projects that exist and how to get involved in them. Now we're getting to the main one, whether the hired persons are professional enough. In order to be able to engage in the resolution of peer conflicts, teachers and teachers must be educated for this. Teachers and teachers need to be informed about what the terms of violence include both among children and how to identify them, to clarify what is expected of them in certain typical situations, although no situation of violence can be called typical and teach techniques that could be useful for them in their engagement in conflict. So, the report before us provides a really relevant picture of the state of children's rights, it is exhaustive, it is based on a number of cases in the area of violation of children's rights, but at the same time gives clear guidelines for action to protect and promote children's rights. Since it is the task of the Ombudsman for children to propose taking measures to build a complete system of protection and promotion of the rights of children and to prevent harmful actions that threaten children's rights and interests, it is good that this report pointed to the need for greater employment of professional school associates, the need for a permanent education of teachers and teachers who are now insufficient, but also parents that no child who needs it would be denied direct professional assistance. In the end, no student, no student, should fear to follow into school because of the expectation that they will be exposed or exposed to violence or humiliation. And also, no parent should be afraid that violence will happen to his child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8742	Thank you. The desire to address the Parliament was also shown by a respected representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8743	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respected counselors for children with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here's the report, actually, it's very substantial in all segments. In discussions yesterday and today, we heard debates from various areas, most of course about violence, about education, education that we will actually listen to through the education system or through various laws, preparations, strategies that are being prepared. I will speak only of one segment today, of the unfavourable position of children as a participant of judicial proceedings in our country. Namely, this report also mentions long - term parenting procedures, even up to 12 years old. I wonder if a legislator can affect these procedures quickly by prescribing penalties if parents, or potential parents, do not report at a certain time. Parents also complain of the threatening form of inviting children to court, especially as witnesses. All of this is of course worrying, and it is also worrying about the unempathetic attitude of judges to children who are either victims or witnesses in court proceedings. This is why these preventions of such unkind events are actually seen in the specialization of staff in the judiciary, i.e. lawyers working with children. But I must also say that it is not enough to have only educated judges in that sense, but also specialised or licensed lawyers who deal with children, which is normal practice in the world. In fact, the practice of courts in terms of priorities should be changed as quickly as possible. It is often said that priorities are more important crimes of general crime. And what is more important to us than solving problems with children? Because it's just a time resolution, even sentenceing is very important and it can be even preventive for further repetitive actions. The problem also arises when re-examinationing children of victims of criminal offences. In fact, in their consciousness, they are again made victims, which is contrary to the Law on Juvenile Courts, which states that the main debate always reads the witness statement record, which, of course, the legislator predicted is just such a repeat victimisation of children. Therefore, the irresponsible treatment of police and judicial authorities towards children is touching, out of the minds of all of us known recent events at the Municipal Court in Zagreb when two girls of only 7 and 8 years of age were brought before the court to testify as victims to testify about the fornication of an older man above them. We all agree that it is inappropriate for victims of such crimes to be exposed to the carelessness of the police and the negligence of the court to meet with the person who has caused them such damage as they will remember and carry for life. It is unnecessary to add, in fact, what kind of mental reaction was these girls that they couldn't even give a statement again, and then the hearing was delayed. For example, just one of these cases is a major problem of ineffectiveness of the system, which, although the law exists, does not protect the most sensitive, youngest population and in this way indirectly affects their negative growth and development in any segment of life. And children, children justifiably expect their problems to be solved by adults. Especially if they're victims of such crimes. Moreover, the obligations of the Republic of Croatia stem from the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the other international agreements that we have signed, and there they are also required that the judiciary be created as a child friendly judiciary, and take a look at this example of what was done. Of course, the judiciary should be organised in a way that balances between ensuring the fundamental human rights of the perpetrators of delicacies while, on the other hand, I particularly stress special protection should be given to victims and witnesses as the most sensitive participants in judicial proceedings. I'd like to say one more thing, the public needs to be particularly sensitive to the need to protect children from sexual abuse. Unfortunately, children are very hard to defend themselves in such cases, and they need a large, large protection of the community so that their growth is not disrupted. The latest figures worldwide say that every 5 children are abused, of course there are similar situations in Croatia. But let's remember that it's only one part, that's one part, the tip of the iceberg, because there are many cases unreported. That is why we need to work to raise awareness of such a problem in order to help such children. This calls for constant supervision and modernisation and education, both parents and children and the whole society. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, I will end it with one sentence, which is that children and in this segment where it is very important, where the greatest injustices are done that children rightly expect to be protected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8744	A respected representative, Zoran Vinkovic, reports this presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8745	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You see the distinguished colleagues almost to agree with you when you were talking about this part of the judiciary. However, they cannot agree, and it is very much related to the efficiency of the judiciary that should also be applied to child abuse. For example, a letter addressed to the Croatian government, i.e. a request in January, and it is about the famous Law on Move, the removal of the headquarters of the state's attorneys, the municipal courts that hit a much larger city than a middle city like Djakovo, and it is very much about the protection of children that the Croatian government has not yet responded to. It is, in effect, that criminal cases from the Municipal Court in Djakov were transferred to the Municipal Court in Nasice. The state's attorney's office, the headquarters of the state's attorney's office, transferred to Nasice, and there's only one bus from Djakova to Nasic, and I think he's driving about two o'clock in the afternoon. So in this system, and it is also related to the protection of children, perhaps the child would also turn to the state's attorney to protect him simply cannot come to him in any way since he no longer has a seat in Djakov, and the municipal court can discuss criminal cases. So here I am taking this opportunity, and I call on the Prime Minister of Mr Milanovic, but also the Minister of Justice to resolve this disgrace that this left-hand side has done when it has politically dealt with individual local self-government and relocated municipal courts and state attorneys.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8746	We're continuing an individual debate. The word is now received by the distinguished representative Sonja König.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8747	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected attorneys with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. The 2011 Ombudsman report we are discussing today tells us that children's rights are being violated daily and everywhere. The report gives us good insight into how everyone treats children and their rights in Croatian society, how they are treated by parents, institutions. And that relationship we'll all agree must be much, much better. In particular, the report highlights a subject that rightly occupys the Ombudsman, which is an area concerning children's rights as members of the social community. The participation of children and young people in the decision-making process while, at its many and frequent frequency, the attorney’s attention is most occupied by violence against children and children. Although data speak of a slightly smaller number of violent behaviours compared to previous years, violence remains a major problem, and lawyers are often reported as seen in the report. Many children suffer even as victims of peer violence, as well as victims of adult and family violence. Each parent would agree that parenting is the most creative, the most beautiful, but also the hardest job. One of the eternal doubts about child rearing is whether beatings are acceptable educational measures or not. Most parents feel that beatings are an integral part of discipline and that unless they are taught discipline, no one else will. But if you ever wonder how one child feels when he gets beaten, you will learn the answer by simple method, which is to ask yourself how would you feel about getting beaten? Because children are just little people, when we hit them they're unhappy and humiliated but they can't pay us back because we're bigger and stronger than them, so maybe they'll take advantage of the opportunity and kicks back to someone their age and about their age, height or weight. They may come to kindergarten or school and resolve conflict in a way that they have learned from us, who have learned from our home right now, in a family home. Because every time we hit a child, it receives, so a clear message that violence is a perfectly legal way of resolving conflict, it gets a message that we can physically punish whoever does something that we don't want to do. Get a message that it's okay to beat the one you love. And so when we wonder why and why so much violence among children in school, let us remember that we are mirrors where our children are looked at and that we adults first need to accept responsibility for our behavior. Violence, therefore, is not really solved by any problems that you, in your report, have repeatedly highlighted and underlined, and for those who do not know or forget, the Law on Protection against Family Violence prescribes that the blow of a child, i.e. physical punishment, violence committed at the expense of a child is punishable by 7 thousand kunas or prisons for at least 45 days in prison. The idea that children have the right to express their own views and that they must be taken into account in all the issues that apply to them is also an integral part of the Convention on the Rights of the Child adopted at the General Assembly of the United Nations in 1989. I remind her, and my colleagues who spoke before me, said it was the most ratified human rights document set by the universal standards of human rights of children, although the application of these standards is still in practice, unfortunately we see it every day weak. The convention under which a child is up to 18 years of age requires that all the responsible segments of society from family to state institutions ensure a child who is able to form his own opinion, the right to freely express his views, about all the things that apply to him. The first step towards this is to get to know all the members of society about the existence of these rights, to promote the necessity of their protection and to create social standards necessary for their respect, and especially to teach children and young people responsible treatment and others. The report shows that one of the priorities in the work of the Ombudsman's Office for Children were also meetings and co-operation with children from kindergartens, schools with the aim of increasing the impact of children in society. We can say that active participation of children and young people, especially those over 15 years of age, is recognized as necessary and necessary by those who have created a national programme for young people, but I still don't think there are enough institutional mechanisms for involving children in decision-making. Although, throughout our country, the establishment of children’s councils that partially warn city and municipal authorities about the problems children and young people face daily in their lives. For those a little older, there is the possibility of participating in the counsel of young people, but all this still does not help too much in the real participation of children and young people in decision making. Experiences so far have shown that existing mechanisms, so encouraging the social engagement of children and young people, do not give much of the desired results, because those who gain the right to vote at 18 years of age do not flock in large numbers to polling stations, and children's councils and councils, i.e. The advice of young people is only a minority of their generation. That is why I think it is important and it would be good to reconsider the proposal to encourage young people from 16 years of age to vote in local elections, thus encouraging young people to have political engagement, which is also a general trend in the world. Here, if we look around, we see that young people actually, and others are increasingly losing interest in politics. Unfortunately, there is a general tendency to lose interest in the politics of all groups of citizens, but in particular this concerns young people, although the response to young people's elections, and especially those who vote for the first time, statistics say they are not in the polls. And in fact, young people usually say that they are not interested in politics because they say politics decides about them and they themselves have little influence on political events, although today our young citizens, younger than 18, are extremely well informed, curious, critical, facing Europe and the world. Young people in Croatia are entitled to employment at the age of 16 and are entitled to employment. The participation of young people in social life is one of the indicators of success in general state policy for both young and everyday, and also in the report of the Ombudsman for children we mention young people and children in the context of drug abuse, alcohol, violence against and among children, and unfortunately less as a resource and enormous potential. But like many other things, involving young people in social life depends mainly on the willingness of the elderly, the willingness of us to give in to the young and to leave part of the space. It is easiest on such a proposal that could otherwise be heard from all political circles and options to shake hands and say that our Constitution, for example Article 45, does not allow, but I think it is time for certain provisions of the Constitution to be changed or changed and that it is up to us to consider it. to put it on the agenda and discuss it. To include our fellow citizens from 16 years of age in active voting rights in local elections. The issue of reducing the age limit for voting has already been addressed by the Council of Europe for many years, and in 1997 the Council of Europe also made a recommendation calling on all Member States to lower the age limit for the achievement of general voting rights, for the time being in most members of the European Union for 18 years, however, the limit of general electoral law. At the conference of the Ministers for Youth of the European Union in Ireland, it was announced that, in the European Union, all its members would be recommended to bring the border down to 16 years. In early 2008 otherwise as the deadline for allowing Croatian 16-year-olds to vote in the elections, for local authorities, it was also defined by the national programme of action for young people, unanimously adopted at the Parliament's session in early October 2002. That possibility was discussed in this assembly. And in 2004, when Libra lawmakers proposed that voting rights be introduced with and for 16-year-olds in local elections. Since then, 8 and 10 years have passed, and I think that we must put the proposal back on the agenda, or discuss it from the past years. When almost everyone agreed with the initiative, and those skeptical in the minority said that by making a decision that our citizens from 16 years of age were right, we should wait a little longer, they say we should wait a little longer. Since then, 8 and 10 years have passed, and the Ombudsman herself states in her report that there are ideas and only occasional discussions on the extension of voting rights to children over 16 years of age at local level where this idea should be discussed and used as a starting point for possible future normative solutions. It also states that there is a need to strengthen political culture in Croatia, participatory culture and political literacy, and to introduce civic education. I'm signing all these defense attorneys, and I agree with all that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8748	We have three replicas on this exhibit. First respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8749	A colleague mentioned beatings as a forbidden educational measure. Well, I don't see here any MPs who, at least in their lives when he was a little kid, didn't get from mom or by ass, tour, or whatever you want, or a little bit more. I don't see them driving into bullyes. On the other hand, the position of a child as a small man as you said to me is more influenced by the situation in this society and by the position of family itself. Father and mother are sentenced to survival, sentenced to 24 hours of worry about how to feed that child. Maybe they're even unemployed. My grandparents don't believe they have a gift, 'cause they don't even have bread. Schools have lost their educational function, there is inability to hire, imperceptibility and then no wonder with these constant measures, these Croatian governments of these permanent gatherings, the increase of VAT and everything else to make these deviations appear in society especially in young people. Because on the one hand, they see American dream, rich tycoons, Mercedes, Porsches, and on the other hand, they really don't want bread. As for this libra initiative as you have called it, it is obvious to young people of 16 years of age that this coalition has lost these older, mature voters, and now it wants to sell more fog and young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8750	Another replica, Honored Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8751	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. To think about it is the idea of giving the general right to vote, so I would tell the children of 16 years and years. In fact, we have passed a law whereby the foreigners who report here have the right to vote in the local elections. And those who, therefore, live there for a year, a year and a half, two so these children live 16 years in this Republic of Croatia. So when we compare those two categories then in some ways a man might actually be a supporter, a supporter of your ideas. On the other hand, I agree with my colleague Vinkovic on the idea, so 16 years of general voting law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8752	And the third replica, the esteemed representative Ivana Posavec Krivec.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8753	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague of mine you've encouraged me with your positive thinking about how important it is for us to be grown-ups to be the ones to open up the space for young people to get involved in different decision-making processes, or to be the ones to open up the opportunity for children to say their opinions. Here in Croatia there are many mechanisms that children can engage in various activities primarily outside their schools in local self-government units. There are roof organizations that care about children, for example, the Alliance of Our Children. There are wonderful programs such as municipalities, cities of friends of children. So these are all mechanisms that we in local self-government units can open up space, we can let the kids say what they want to tell us. We can give them a chance to tell that message of their children to adults. And surely through such an approach, we will embellish them, we will give them the opportunity to be stronger and then very soon come to this level of 16 years when perhaps in some new cycle that is ahead of us maybe not already next year, but surely during some period of office of four years, strengthening these mechanisms that already exist and the advice of young people and all of this already mentioned could create a situation for young people to get the right opportunity, that children get the right opportunity, to say what they think and that they want us to arrange and rural units, that they want us to create conditions in the city that they feel better, and that may be the way that this amongst the peer violence of which unfortunately has a lot of space in this attorney's report, and that in each segment they look to reduce it. And so we can believe in working together. I'm sure you mentioned this in that sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8754	Thank you very much. We're continuing an individual debate. The parliament and the public will now be addressed by distinguished representative Martina Banic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8755	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Advocate for the Children, colleagues and colleagues. We have an exhaustive report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2011. I would refer specifically to one segment in my presentation, which is a violation of children's rights via the Internet and mobile networks. It is an area in which parents ’ education should primarily be done in order to enable and help them to protect their children. We are witnessing that today's children are all available. Kids from the earliest age use the Internet. Already seven-year-olds in first grade primary school have an open facebook profile. Children put their pictures, data, themselves and their classmates, and open up the ground for abuse and theft of identity data and everything else. Through new technologies, children are faced with a wide range of violent behavior from threats messages through demeaning messages to using their photographs and untrue data that are later published on the Internet. This is particularly dangerous because children at that age are subject to various influences, which can leave far - reaching consequences. The mentioned technologies open up a large space for child pornography and child trafficking most often by paedophiles. Electronic abuse involves encouraging group hatred, attacks on privacy, harassment, stalking, insult, and spreading violent and offensive comments. It can include sending evil messages sometimes and threatening ones. There are often websites that contain stories, drawings, images and jokes at the expense of peers. There are more and more cases of social networking opening up groups where children vote for the person who, for example, is the ugliest, most unpopular or the least popular at school or, for example, the person they hate the most. When we talk about violence on the Internet, it is important to point out that there is often also breaking into e-mail addresses, facebook profiles, etc., and that in this way ugly comments are sent to others. For example, someone can send a message out of a joke that will hurt and upset the child. We are aware that by searching the Internet, children can encounter various contents that are interesting and attractive to them at a certain age without knowing at all the dangers of the content they are exposed to. We've heard today, but I'll do it again. According to the latest research by the Faculty of Economics in Split on internet use, children spend 6 to 7 hours a day on the Internet. Also according to UNICEF research, 34% of children aged 10 to 15 experience some form of violence through new media and one to two times a year. In police statistics, crimes against children online account for 3% of the total crimes committed against children, but it is noticeable that abuse of children via the Internet is increasingly present. Especially in the last few years since social networks like facebooks and twitters appeared. However, the number of reported crimes against children on the internet is not continuous because it depends on how many victims report them. The key problem is not to report because all previous actions have shown that victims are not aware that they are victims or that they are afraid to report abuse for shame. Violence on the Internet and on the Internet needs to be paid a lot more attention, because we know that such cases are growing, and so are the data from the MUP. Society in general needs to pay attention to the problem I'm talking about. We must do much more to protect children, but their parents too, education is crucial in this regard. The most important thing is to provide children with peaceful and uninterrupted adulthood without influences that could cause further trauma in life. Much of this responsibility must be assumed by parents and properly educated. It is crucial to develop awareness that the Internet can be very dangerous for children despite the fact that it is necessary for learning and development. A great role and burden bear both parents and formal education in primary schools. It would be good, therefore, to devote several school hours in each school year to protecting and avoiding unwanted and potentially dangerous content on the Internet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8756	Thank you very much. And in this debate, the respected Zoran Vinkovic stands up.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8757	Dear colleagues, you have talked about hate speech, the violence that is visible in the media, on the Internet, and often the victims are not aware that they are victims of this violence. So we are obviously not aware today that we are victims of violence when the newly elected Serbian president or Serbian president says Vukovar was and will remain Serbian and this is violence against all Croatian citizens and also on Croatian children. And this obviously great Chetnik needs this Assembly to respond in a way that needs to be answered to stop spreading hate speech and spread the great Serbian idea because of that there is nothing. This and the Croatian Parliament should reach a conclusion and send a clear and loud message that Vukovar was Croatian and that Vukovar will continue to be Croatian, regardless of what the Chetnik Nikolic is saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8758	We will hear another replica of the respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Comrade Ingrid, you signed up for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8759	My colleagues when you were saying that a great burden of responsibility lies on my parents and everything you said I think anyone here can agree. However, we have in this report an alarming fact that unfortunately those most invited to protect children and this is a parenting environment and also the help of society, often seen from reports on page 83. This is how children who live in poverty are talked about the risks of poverty. It is said that many parents, and here they all swore a great big love for families above all, but often parents and most often that mouse parent escapes not from children in general nor from the care that is generally shown to children, but also, unfortunately, escapes from their own child and does not pay for his restraint. And what we saw and what we witnessed in the past year and the last few years when FINA took for herself what she didn't have, so the children were deprived there because of the bank loans and because the parent was no longer able to do because he lost his salary or if the craftsman didn't pay him for the work he had done. So all that remained was children for the sake of parental debt, and often for those debts that parents were not guilty, they were left without alimony. So that's how they've often joined together against children themselves, and they're the most responsible to children. But something you also talk about this violence and the exposure of children to violence It's something that's crucial, but we all have to raise our voice here against the speeches that have been incorporated by large companies that have commercials to kill, humiliate, defeat, so they're just acting aggressively. [[Intruder: Time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8760	Thank you. The individual debate will be continued by a respected representative, Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8761	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed attorneys with associates, colleagues and colleagues. "The children are frustrated and behave inappropriately because their needs are unsatisfactory. When a child does not know how to resolve his frustration, it leads to even greater frustration, and his behavior becomes even worse," says Mrs. Jagoda Tonšić, the cream teacher of psychology and project manager "quality school, school without coercion". The introduction of the report lists the areas that most require our attention and require a reaction by number and frequency. These are family relationships, violence against children and among children, and reports of violations of children’s educational rights. If we ask ourselves whether today’s children and their needs differ from earlier generations, we can in principle give an answer as to how the basic needs associated with the sense of security, belonging, and love of the same. However, there are other needs that are quite clearly different in new generations, so the characteristics of these children differ greatly from the characteristics of children 30 years ago and earlier. But let's go back to the problems that make up the backbone of this report and try to determine at least the main causes of this situation in principle. The cases mentioned in the report are very illustrative and point to the main causes of child rights violations. Infringement of the status rights of the child is listed in cases where bureaucratic obstacles were above the basic right of the child in the personal name, residence or residence status of foreign citizens most often of the time. Particular attention should be paid to the right to privacy, especially in relation to the increasing involvement of children in internet and social networks. In particular, there is an emphasis on school-related obligations to protect children's privacy, safeguarding student's intimacy and professional treatment of data that are secret and protected from unauthorised access as well as the obligation to seek parental consent for the possible use of data on children, recording and publishing of recordings and photographs. Unfortunately, it has been detected that children's privacy rights are still being violated in educational and health institutions. The most common reason for addressing the office is a violation of the rights of children to life with parents and parental care. In particular, the problem of parents in prison should be mentioned here, which is important for a large number of reasons for meeting children, and in this respect also a warning to the social care centre and the prison system administration. It would certainly be more useful if the office had more authority than just to warn and not just in this case. The largest number of reported reported violence against children refers to domestic violence, then violence in educational institutions and violence in other institutions. Other applications refer to other forms of violence that occurred outside the family and institutions. When we talk about domestic violence and neglect, it is noticeable that violence occurs mainly in families where relations between parents are disrupted. Unfortunately, children are often the subject of each other's calculation. We see from the report that there are false reports mostly of members of a wider family. Poverty mainly creates unfavourable conditions for raising and growing children and often leads to stressful situations in the family. Such unfavourable circumstances also strengthens the consumer society in which we live today, as indicated in the report, so often children are victims of consumerism and the race for profit, and parents put themselves in a very awkward situation when their children do not have equal opportunities and therefore experience stress, both children and parents. Although there is no clear correlation between the phenomenon of domestic violence with its economic situation, it certainly has negative consequences. Let us also mention the problem of addiction over which we cannot close our eyes and about which many examples are given in the report. Often, the victim of violence himself becomes a bully, so a vicious circle is open, which, if it doesn't stop in time, threatens to explode, which, unfortunately, has already been realized several times already. Let's just remember the death of our teenagers on the street. It particularly concerns cases or cases where children as victims of violence come to school and often with bruises without anyone noticing it. Violence in educational institutions is a particularly serious problem. The vast majority of schools do not have a planned crisis protocol, and since there is no single protocol at country level, it is no wonder that many employees do not know how to deal with difficult situations related to violence. It is a very illustrative letter from her parents to the lawyer stating that the teacher cannot deal with the problem she encountered and the information she is crying and saying that she is powerless. Of course she's not the only case. I myself witnessed situations where both parents and teachers felt powerless because they could not cope with the serious problems they faced. In particular, it is an indicative and difficult case of children with diagnosed ADHD disorder, then new forms of violence via the Internet and cell phones and the like. Of course, it is an unacceptable example stated in the report that a victim of violence was transferred from school, which then became violence against the same child again. Let us also mention the lack of professional school associates, especially psychologists and educators whose role in preventing such situations is irreplaceable. It happens in the end that there is a conflict between parents, school staff and representatives of institutions rather than all of them using all the strength and opportunities together to solve such serious problems. One proverb says about what a teacher spoils won't make a dozen officers better. Particular attention should be paid, as indicated by the report, to the equal availability of education for all, as well as the protection of children in transport. Finally, this report should be accepted because it has been done extremely well, not only detecting the problems facing our society in relation to the rights of the child but also making proposals for a complete child rights protection system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8762	Thank you. We'll hear another individual debate. Dear colleague Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8763	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed lawyer with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to consider this year's report on the work of a child's attorney quite exhaustive. All aspects of the protection of children's rights have been covered. In particular, the introduction highlights two areas that require attention and reaction, family relations and violence against children and among children. With the emphasis on these areas, I agree, but in addition to the above, I would particularly like to highlight several areas of protection for children's rights that I would personally give special attention to. These are within the right to the privacy of children from harm to privacy and violence via the Internet and mobile, as well as the problem of pre-school education, in which similar problems are repeated year after year, primarily about enrolment of children and lack of kindergarten facilities. Violence in society is of course a broader problem, but its prevention and prevention starts from the earliest age, so also from school days. This report is particularly concerned by the fact that in the chapter of Violence one word appears in a large number of places, which is impotence. It states that schools themselves have expressed inability to solve problems. In second place, it was noted that the children of the perpetrators and children were sent messages that adults were powerless to solve the problem. Professional associates and directors have openly acknowledged in numerous applications the impotence, etc. The problem of violence in the report has been clearly highlighted, but it is obvious that the ministry and everyone involved in the system must urgently come up with measures to improve the situation. Although the figures in this report do not show alarming growth, the fact is that there are no appropriate mechanisms to respond to situations where children, especially in school institutions, are exposed to violence by their peers, requires a response from the competent authorities. It is obvious that even professional people in competent institutions do not know that the problem of school violence is solved or that the problem calls for action that is realistically operationally impossible to implement. The violence in schools among young people is becoming more socially aware, unfortunately, only when it escalates as in the case of Luke Ritz, which is already too late. So here I would take another chance to invite both the attorney and the competent ministry to react much more strongly to the problem and in the following reports the word "powerlessness" in solving the problem of violence among young people disappears from the report. If the problem requires increased effort and even greater resources, I am convinced that everyone who decides to do so will understand the need for such increased effort. Regarding the problem of violence, the report rightly notes the fact that violence related to the Internet and new technologies is growing. It is correctly concluded that there is no effective protection without teaching children to use the Internet properly and to use personal protection tools. I would add here that there is no effective protection without teaching both parents and children about any dangers that children can lurk on the Internet. And also on the correct use of the Internet. I believe that an appropriate step in this direction should be taken in the first place by institutions, and that prevention in this field should not be left to parents and children's initiatives alone. The appropriate programmes should certainly be included in the school curricula, and find the modes for including both parents and children, so beside the children themselves. The issue option of certain publications which could be provided with some basic information and instructions. Of course, each parent has responsibility for his child, but nowadays many children from 10, 11, 12 years of age know more about using information terminology than parents, and they can easily find ways to bypass that control. So society has to worry about it, not everything must be left to a personal initiative. The best mechanisms are of course as mentioned through the school system, so I agree with the attorney when she finds unacceptable in one case the school's conduct when the student was faced with abuse I mean on Facebook, and in which school, although the students of that school were involved, refused to take any action because... It wasn't done through school computers. [[You don't understand.]] I am the same, although I try to stay in progress with the latest informational terminology and terms, I am not sufficiently familiar with all the dangers children can face in using the Internet and new technologies. For example, I’ve only recently heard of the term sexting that means sending sexually explicit messages or photos primarily via mobile phones, but also publishing such content on the Internet. Obviously, it is a phenomenon that has only recently been observed and processed as a whole, so it does not even mention it in this report, although the problem with this problem appears in several places. I therefore consider it necessary to highlight it in my presentation as well. In short, it is about messages and photographs often taken by children because of naiveness, inexperience, or the desire to express themselves in society to their friends, real or virtual. What is published on the Internet or sent by a network remains literally there forever and can literally destroy life for young people. Cases of child suicide have been recorded because they recklessly and easily exposed their privacy to what we call a popular network of all networks. While such cases do not escalate in such drastic consequences, they do leave significant consequences for young people in their formative years, and unfortunately, such cases are not few. So I think that here should be a much stronger and more determined response, primarily preventive measures of education, but also a requirement that service providers themselves better control how many years there are people who access certain content or leave certain content. Unfortunately, in this area too, things seem to be happening in a similar way as the ban on selling alcoholic beverages and cigarettes to children is often a dead letter on paper. And with regard to the availability of alcoholic beverages and cigarettes, which is also the problem mentioned in this report, I must say that I am the impression that none of the persons who should react to such phenomena react sufficiently and adequately. How many times have you seen underage children consume alcohol and smoke without anyone interested in where they got these products? The majority of these children will, however, not have lasting adverse consequences, but the problem of alcoholism in society is more of a problem when you look at absolute numbers than the problem of heavy drugs. Of course, this does not reduce the risk of using heavy drugs so that someone does not get me wrong, but alcoholism is even a greater social danger if we sum up cumulatively all the negative consequences. And the reaction to this problem that also arises in formative years is either milky or nothing. This report also states that the Advocate General has reported such cases, but it is pointed out that the inspector has the power to sanction only if direct supervision has determined the sale of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products to the child. However, I would not agree with that finding because it is Article 71. The law on trade prescribed a penalty for violations of 30 thousand to 150 thousand kuna for such behaviour. But a violation like any other crime that enters the sphere of criminal law doesn't have to be proved only by direct insight. It can also be proved by any means of proof. Each such product has its own stamp and the traceability of these products is also possible. Therefore, there is no conclusion that this infringement can be proved exclusively by direct supervision. It's clearly the easiest and safest way, but it seems to me that in this case there is little or no will to enforce the law. Therefore, the sale of alcoholic beverages to minors was found only in 29 cases, which is a huge disproportionate to that phenomenon in society. It seems to me that it points to the order to sanction such cases so as not to say that nothing was done, that the real will still does not exist in the youth. As a representative and the Zagreb roads, I especially remember the problem of preschool education, or kindergartens. Because in this area, especially in recent times, there has been a significant increase in the population of significant shortages of kindergartens, and in the existing kindergartens, the group is usually too large to lower quality and preschool education. Therefore, the report rightly concludes that a significant number of children still fail to enroll in pre-school and education programmes, and long ago pre-school education is not a mere custody of kindergarten children while parents are at work. I'd say it's about the need and the right of a child not his parents who have to put a child somewhere while they're at work, but I'm stressing the child's right to proper education and inclusion in a society that starts at that age. Unfortunately, preschool education is not always recognized as an absolute priority, but priorities are given to other projects such as building water sports halls or getting sporty cars, and solving the burning problems of kindergartens is solved by ad hoc measures such as the reuse of completely inadequate private spaces, which I am witnessing in my midst. Which is certainly not a long-term solution. The more the rent and arrangement of such rooms is not subject to the provisions of the Public Procurement Act, the more expensive it may be than the construction of kindergartens for which land has already been secured in some cases. I was personally surprised by the lawyer’s position on the issue of childcare in the City of Zagreb, where the problem saw no agreement on the price of kindergartens between the City Assembly and mayors as if the responsibility for deciding on the issue was not given to the Law on Preschool Education and Education of the City Assembly, but that the legal solution was the agreement between the assembly and the mayor. And at that point, my impression seemed to have escaped a little from the focus of the main problems I was just talking about. Unfortunately, resolving this issue is only possible at the level of political responsibility because the legal imposition of these obligations could enter the constitutional rights of units of local and regional self-government, although I personally and temptingly find a solution that imposes an obligation on irresponsible leaders to ensure adequate kindergarten capacity, possible... certain sanctions unless certain standards are met within the appropriate time limit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I have no intention of criticising and prioritizing investment in sports halls or other facilities that are often useful and necessary, but in solving this problem and managing the city, it is my view that we should go from the principle that we are guided by problems in our own family. I think most people agree that no one in their right mind will buy sports cars or build a tennis court without providing adequate education to their child. In conclusion, I would say that we can conclude that this report shows some progress and sensitisation of the public, state authorities and bodies according to the issue of children's rights and in this light clearly that the work of the Ombudsman was good and I certainly believe that the report should be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8764	We've got three replicas on this exhibit. First respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8765	An esteemed colleague, not entering Zagreb between the assembly and mayor, does happen in some other environments, but we should be responsible here and say that these mini tax reforms have reduced the power of local self-government through budgets and that they are very difficult to build new kindergarten capacities, create conditions etc., etc. However, I agree with you that the very beginning of life is coming from the family. Unfortunately for us, too, the average poor Croatian families. But who today is particularly threatened by the Serbian president's statements. For this reason, the HDSSB club will not seek a break on behalf of the club, I ask that statements that Vukovar is Serbian and that he will remain Serbian, which was said by Chetnik Nikolic, also the Croatian Parliament also sees the president of the Croatian government as well as the president of the Republic of Croatia. Because this is one statement that offends every resident of the Republic of Croatia, every citizen and citizen of the Republic of Croatia regardless of nationality and religion. It's a scandal! And this also affects the development and position of Croatian children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8766	Replication response, Your Honor, Mr. Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8767	Here I can agree with you that this is an important topic, but I don't think it's a topic that we should be talking about right now, and besides the subject, it was also on the HDZ's side of things that, critics who aren't in this debate, because when we look at what happened before, let's say 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010 that the difference between the dead and the newborns is about 7 to 10 thousand people, and we had the opportunity to listen to the criticism of both the current government and those that are still past. It is obvious that here, that this topic is not about getting cheap political points and politicizing, but really that we all try together and we try to solve the problem concretely and focus, focus on this problem but other things in other discussions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8768	Before we move on to the other two replicas, we have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. First, my colleague Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8769	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I think that fellow Vinkovic injured Article 210, which says: "The speaker can only talk about the subject discussed and according to the established agenda.", so the real place in this isn't in the debate about the Ombudsman for the children, if you wanted a break and an indication on behalf of the club or the presidency you should have asked at the beginning of the session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8770	Comrade Hajdukovic, let me run the session anyway, don't do it. We're going to interpret that provision a little bit wider, and the MPs are here to speak, so they've been elected, and even though we're not going to take their word away from them. Second violation of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8771	Well, yes, Article 214 was injured where the representative degrades or insults other MPs, and I would say it offends all Croatian citizens and all Croatian defenders, including Croatian children because they are Croatian citizens as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8772	What representative are you talking about?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8773	And this topic, Mr. Hajdukovic, is truly fortunate that you do not hold a session, this is the theme of all topics. A theme that depends on the future of children.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8774	Replica, dear colleague Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8775	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Pandek, you spoke nicely of the problem of preschool education. Here we agree, of course, that it is necessary to provide every child, therefore kindergarten, but therefore the funds are needed, of course, the funds needed, but with the tax policy that has happened and the budget is not seen, dear fellow kindergartens should therefore be financed, and aunts and building kindergartens etc. And if we add to this the difficult material opportunities of the family, to which the growth of VAT naturally contributes, energy prices and all of these, daily these gatherings certainly do not allow these families to be able to engage those aunts that many have raised many children, perhaps many and this environment. And that certainly leads to those frustrations that your colleague was talking about because every unresolved frustration is causing a new frustration, and then these children come to these risks that you were talking about in the later part of the debate. So also about alcohol, but of course drugs. And that's why I'm asking you and I'm warning you that when there's a debate that doesn't go lightly into these definitions of easy drugs, drugs like this or drugs like that, it comes from your ranks, because it's a question of when the trigger is and when it's time for such messages, and unfortunately we're witnessing more and more teams, so statistics confirm that we're going in and it shouldn't be easy to move and think about it in such a way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8776	The replica will be answered by a esteemed colleague Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8777	Thank you. Of course, a matter of ensuring sufficient kindergarten capacity is a matter of priority. We're witnessing that money was spent on some grand sports halls and BMWs, and it wasn't spent on things that I didn't think were spent on things that I thought I needed to spend my priorities on. I would also remind that during the past government units of local self-government, substantial funds have been cut short and thus are disabled that they can essentially invest these funds in the content they consider necessary, for example the city of Zagreb lost about 800 million kuna from its budget by changing tax policy. And when we're talking about drugs, I'm a note, I don't know if you understand me correctly, I've mentioned that this issue is certainly not to be ignored, but I was saying that as part of the topic about protecting children from alcoholism. Alcoholism is unfortunately due to its comprehensive consequences when more serious dangers are accumulated than heavy drugs. Of course, let me say, I have noted that there is no need to underestimate the dangers of heavy drugs, and here I hope I've made myself clear enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8778	The last replica, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8779	My colleague Pandek, in your comprehensive presentation, I had to intervene with the replica because you are talking about the availability of kindergartens in the Republic of Croatia, so you have specifically crashed into the city of Zagreb in view of your political struggles with the mayor. Namely, Croatia has come out of Homeland, bloody homeland work and there are such cases still, therefore, in the world, that is, in Europe like France that has had Napoleon wars, the first world war, the second, all of which Croatia has, there is also the Homeland War. For this reason, we have also appealed to this speaker and this Assembly on many occasions on behalf of the HDSSB club, that children's kindergartens in Croatia must be available to their children, not just 50% of children in the Republic of Croatia, and that they must be free of charge so that parents, especially in such a difficult situation as Croatia in the crisis and economic crisis and recession, can not be used by grandmother services and some other means to raise children in that preschool age. Unfortunately, this government didn't do it before, so it's expected that you might do something, but as you're going, I'm afraid that there will be a dead letter left on the paper of this proposal, available to your children and free kindergartens.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8780	The reply to the replica Mr. Drazenko Pandek is a representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8781	In principle, it agrees with you that the availability of kindergartens should be free and available to everyone, unfortunately again the question of reality is therefore. You told me that I went down on the mayor, killed my exposure really didn't have any political claims, but was focused on criticizing and seeking to improve the real situation, and I reiterated that there really shouldn't be any in this matter, nor were there any attempts to gain any political points and criticism for criticism. I have witnessed what I see in my midst and what people are talking about, what people I represent in this House tell me. In principle, I can agree with you on the goal of seeking, therefore, that these needs of children be met at the lowest cost of cost and for as many children as possible. But of course the thing is reality, reality and real possibilities. This should be the goal of seeking the ax to some of the other things that I've criticised here in my presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8782	Thank you very much. The next one is Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic on behalf of the HDSSB club, please. Five minutes final.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8783	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian National Assembly. These realities in achieving the right of preschool children to be available, so that preschool education is constantly in this House and during the former government for eight years, and this government has a saying to understand reality and there is no money in other words. And so today, when we have a preschool report from the Ministry of Education, then we have a devastating fact that only 50 or 55% of children attend kindergarten. And that's a fact that's constant. 45% of children never see kindergarten. What does that mean? If it still isn't, there's no money in this country for that kind of preschool education. It's not true there aren't any. They've fallen apart everywhere, and we know that I don't list crime and corruption and everything else, BMWs and everything, but today they're wasting themselves equally, and they're not using it for these needs. And we said here, Mrs. Jelash said that the education began until the third year and after that until the sixth, seventh, etc. So, the kids are accepting things at preschool age. And then we're surprised, you're looking here, or you're repeating the fact that you should give general voting rights to children of 16 years of age. And at the same time, you don't count that such children in some African, Asian and other countries are the main warriors, used for war purposes because they are easily indoctrinated, so perhaps even now they would indoctrinate the SCOJ and the Youth Alliance, perhaps such that... At the same time, we would give them the legalization of easy drugs, so let them buy alcohol like other citizens, if they had civil rights like everyone else. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The driver's license when they get it must be driven with an adult under 23 years of age with adult control, and you will give them voting rights at 16 years of age, and the car must not drive up to 23 years on its own. What are those suggestions? What kind of nebulises are these? Family is the foundation of society, and you in the Law on Medical Insemination suggest as many single mothers as possible, the possibility of increasing the number of single mothers. Family is made up of father and mother. Two parents are easier to raise and easier to raise than one parent, and a medically assisted fertilization law provides that mothers, or women, can use the fertilized embryo alone to get their child. And what do we get? A mother with a child. And where's the father? And then we'll watch the D.A. again to make a report that would be better than last year and that the incidents in this matter have been reduced, so that I don't count what it is. Peer violence. So do you know how much violence there is against teachers and teachers in schools? They keep quiet, many don't report things like that, they're afraid even of their parents. We're keeping it quiet here, and you can go to school if you're going to talk without telling the public or the teachers, so you'll see what they're going through in those schools. Teachers, their teachers. He said a long time ago, I repeat again, I don't know which time Stjepan Radić of Croatian schools must be primarily an educational institution, then educational ones. It's not like that today. Today it's not like that, and right here, it's like it's the main question of whether 16-year-olds will have the right, general electoral right or not. Well, that has nothing to do with the child's attorney. Never mind, it does for you, it does for you. Then let them buy tobacco, cigarettes and alcohol at the age of 16. Let them buy easy drugs without problems in front of schools, stand dealers in front of schools, sell drugs neatly, easy, hard, I don't know. He goes off easy and heavy, is that how it works? So this attorney's report clearly won't refuse because it's written on the basis of facts that were based on the application and everything that was going on, so it's statistically orderly here and it's not to be rejected. But let's think a little bit about how we're in contradiction and conflict when we suggest one thing and here we're not going to say demagogical but a little bit and hypocritical or hypocritical for some rights, and on the other hand we're destroying our children and our family. ... That's right, that's right. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Mrs. Ingrid. Yeah, yeah, when he's talking nonsense. [[/Intruder President: Please don't. So we know he's not throwing himself out of the bench.]] What can I do? So let's take care of ourselves as a state and you as a government of the Kukuriku coalition, that state who came out of the war, who has this, here's only a second, a demographic fall is one of the measures being and fully accessible to their children in our last village of Drizići or worse to the Grgurevics, that he has a kindergarten in Sibinj at least if nothing else is available and free of charge. [[Adversity President: Time's up, Mr. Representative.]] So we'll help our... And in this crisis, in this crisis when they don't have and when they have a chance to send a child to kindergarten that they don't have the money for it [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] and not about Zagreb to worry about whether the kindergarten is like this and Bandic is this and you are that. [[/Intruder President: Please! It's been a minute.]] Well, that sucks. Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office, for allowing me this minute, and I will no longer violate my time, break.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8784	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative Grubisic. Before I give the name of the novice, the Proposer says to Mrs. Ombudsman for children, Mrs. Mili Jelavić, just to say that this body where we are all sitting and discussing is called the Croatian Parliament. Some call it something else, and now we've heard a different expression. It was also called the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, but under the Constitution it is called the Croatian Parliament. It was interesting to watch on one television that broadcast the candidate's bid for the parliamentary elections was written by the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia there on. Now it is a matter of the relationship of this television to knowledge and ignorance about what is called the representative and legislative body of the Republic of Croatia. Here you are, Mrs. Mila Jelavic, the child's attorney.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8785	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Let me first say hello to this group of kids who were now at the gallery, and I must admit that I would like it to be a practice if children were to be listeners when we talk and discuss the state of their rights in all areas. I'm sure the kids about it a lot, a lot can say and have something to say. In short, I would like to thank you for your discussions that we listened to yesterday and today, and they have really touched many areas of children's life, numerous areas and content and this report, many areas that we are dealing with but that we will continue to deal with. I am grateful to you for identifying a number of problems and for pointing us out, but primarily to the institutions of the state for better work, better approach, more thoroughly I would say a more serious approach than it has ever been. I'll just mention some of the areas that you've accepted here and for which I definitely think they are and they want to be the subject of our dealings in the next period. Of course, the lack of preschool institutions weighs on many parents but, of course, it is also a big problem from the aspect of children. I would only mention and invite all of you together to propose for several years that a child budget be established in our country, means funds separated from special items that will actually be intended for children and will then be known and able to distribute to all areas of child life. I think that according to the example of some countries that already have Croatia should actually approach this, and I ask you to think about it and to create a basis for a better position for children in society. A 16-year-old vote is mentioned, sport and many of the problems it has in it, physical punishment, violence via the Internet, children in court proceedings and of course numerous other topics. All of them are questions and problems that we all have to deal with together that we all need to work on a lot more together. And I am sure that our contribution to each of these topics can be given by all of us in the Attorney General's Office, of course there are the bodies of the state administration, but so are you who I call from the heart to put in front of and above all the children's interests during the election and the adoption of laws, regulations, strategies, plans and consensus. In fact, children are the ones who are demanding, and on behalf of children, I am asking and asking, because that is the only way we will show seriousness to children and our responsibility to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-05-24-0.u8786	Thank you, too. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda point. I thank the attorney for the children and her associates. Report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2011. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, I am voting on the following conclusion: - A report on the work of the Ombudsman for children for 2011. I beg your pardon, who's in favour of that conclusion? Who's against it? Restraint? I find that the conclusion was accepted unanimously with 121 votes. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, I am voting on the following conclusion: - Opinions, objections and proposals presented in the debate on the report as well as observations, proposals and recommendations by the Ombudsman for children in the report shall be submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia in order to take measures to make the work of the competent national authorities and bodies with public authority more effective. Who's in favor of this conclusion? Against? Restraint? I find that this conclusion was reached unanimously with 121 votes.
