ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9764	So, - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Radio Television, First Reading, PZ No. 98. Lawmakers are the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Proposal of the law, you took the act into the boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament relating to the first reading of the law apply to the adoption of this law. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You have received reports from these working bodies of the Croatian Parliament at the session, does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yes, a respected ministry minister, respected Andrea Zlatar Violic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9765	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honored MPs and MPs. It is therefore about the proposal to supplement and amend the Law on Croatian Television and the additions and amendments aimed at the very narrow circle of the law itself. These additions and changes relate primarily to the way in which the management of television, supervisory work and the powers of the programme council are put in place. For the reason that television is located, so public Croatian television has been in the management crisis for months which began with the resignations of the 11th and 12th months and continued the continuing conflicts between the relevant parts, i.e. administrative, programming and supervisory bodies. For reasons of financial crisis and programming crisis, which is the logical consequence of these first two. We believe that the current Law on Croatian Television needs to be amended. This is precisely by conferring powers between individual levels of the body in order to avoid blocking their work and to clearly distribute levels of authority and level of responsibility. This Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the following fundamental issues. First, it is the organisation of the HRT body, the head director of HRT, the Croatian Supervisory Board and the HRT Programme Council. The procedure of their election and part-time operation and the directorship of the HRT, whose work and tasks are determined by the Statute of the HRT. In the manner of action, the election of the head director of HRT as well as the supervisory board of HRT and the programme HRT shall be subject to one principle. It's about public tenders coming to the Assembly Committee and then it's about candidates for all those bodies to vote in the Parliament. We believe that this decision is justified because the Parliament is the most representative body of citizens in Croatia. And we think that the way that we are just separated, divided by the way we vote from these three instances is to set up a program mode of control, a control method, so controlling the business and financial part and self-government up to three separate functions. This seems particularly important to us because the practice so far has shown that the core of conflict and the blocking of work itself has been precisely what the powers have overlapped with each other. What the Programme Council had power to do in management and decision-making and thus could not achieve quality work. In all of these, all these decision-making levels are also taken into account in this proposal that powers are clearly delimited. With that, we are aware of it, most of the powers associated with the function of the principal director, precisely for the reason that he as a key person can bear all the responsibilities as he carries them. The Director-General is obliged to submit this report to the Assembly every year with the previous opinion of the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board of the Work Report, but I warn you who has not followed all the changes until today. If this Report were not, accepting or not accepting the Report is not the basis for the Director's resolution, so that the problem does not move again in the debate. As regards the Programme Council and as regards both the Director-General and the Supervisory Board, the criteria are very strong, so the criteria for the Public Director-General include all the necessary, necessary conditions. They also include knowledge of media legislation and information technologies, and as you know the election process assumes that candidates with their programme, first introduced into the law, will be able to manifest themselves and need to be manifested before the relevant parliamentary committee. This means they will have the right to expose themselves and I think that this way we will have a truly qualified introduction in, insight into their programmes. In the final part of the law itself, the deadlines for implementing certain legal provisions as well as the deadline for harmonising HRT's work and business with the provisions of the law itself are prescribed. As far as the directorship's work is concerned, his work will be arranged by a statue, the statute is also authorized by the Assembly to give consent. So in this sense, we consider it important that in this law, we oversell it and unburden it with content regarding the power of the work of the directorship itself. In public discussions that lasted first informally on a series of round tables, then formally almost a month in a web debate, and in comments that came from the European Commission, there were several very clear points and I will briefly expose them and tell them which points of them were accepted. First of all, in the European Commission's remarks, there was an observation on how to accept the annual report in the Croatian Parliament by the director as the basis for his mandate and the article was then deleted from the law. Also, the European Commission's remarks show a strong concern if this law is voted on by a simple majority and the qualified majority in the Assembly has been proposed, as adopted in this proposal. I must also say that the observation regarding whether the conditions for selecting are strong enough for the Director-General are strong enough and are complemented precisely by this knowledge set concerning media and information space. In conclusion, I would like to say that these amendments to the law are indeed concentrated to address the accumulated problems on HRT, so this management, financial and programme crisis is particularly due to the fact that we are already halfway through the year, and the two newly specialized channels for which television has committed to their programme in the past year are not even in advance of preparations for their launch. In this debate, and there is a whole letter taken into account the objections of the ministries and other competent authorities, and also since this is the first reading, I believe that through the debate we will come to even more high-quality individual provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9766	Thank you very much, dear Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the committee, the working bodies of the Parliament want to take a word? I don't think so. I'm opening a debate. We're having a debate in clubs first. The first to discuss is the Croatian Labour Club and the respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9767	Honorable Vice President, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Should the HRT Act be amended? It is certainly necessary because of the steering, assembly of editorial, moral and most important concept crises. So the situation forces us to change, and that's fundamental change. When we talk about HRT, we should keep in mind two units – radio and television. We usually tie the crisis to Croatian television, and HTV was never to be fooled by public television, TV at the service of the public. HTV was either a state television whose journalists publicly said they were ready to lie about the state on HTV. And what state does that lie benefit? And what state asks the press to lie for her? It's not the state that's looking for, it's the politicians who own the country. So almost all the time Croatian multi-party HTV served on one side of the party in power, and on the other, it took on the race as soon as they showed up with commercial televisions. Public content is very little to be interested in. HTV competed with NOVA and RTL in ratings instead of being an example of professionality, reliability and credibility. Instead of being a quality measure in public content, HTV is trying to mate in commercial. In a fundamental strategic, conceptual, strategic failure, there were also doubts about the illegal business which others witnessed in this House and journalists of Croatian Radio and Television. Instead of protecting them for the courage of them, the foretold conducts mobbing and terror. Many brave HTVs have paid tribute believing that we are a fair, democratic society, believing that change has come. But changes don't fall from the sky. He'll remember that well. Those who dare speak out loud about corruption on HRT or cut their emissions or force them to co-operate with blackmail, to obey. Obeys do business, something for the house, something for their pocket. There's a TV on Croatian television we heard on the board yesterday a petty thieving and becoming a big thief. I'll talk about it in an individual discussion. When incompetent people rule, negative selection takes place, the negative selection on Croatian television lasts 22 years. The fastest and most efficient talents are decapitating the head of Prisavlje. Obedience is the best feature of advancement and great pay. Who actually rules HRT. Is the government HDZ? I doubt it. Is the government SDP? I doubt it. Foreign policy has long lost control of HTV since the time of Ivic Pasalic. The HRT is ruled by the powers, the underground and the superiors. HTV was not responsible for the picture of HDZ as a whole, but for the picture of Ivo Sanader. In addition to Sanader's list of untouchable traffickers, some of HDZ's powerful man who had an editor of the information program on a direct link. Realizing that a boat full of money no one controls the strings and the controls, but it takes over the editorials too, so-called. a group formed around the European home. To this day, they have managed to pull out a network that even birds on the branch know everything about. He knows, I've heard more than once and the police, but no one's doing anything. Why? Because whenever they tried to bring the investigation to an end of politics, it was not the time. There are more important things in the country than television, they said. The only thing that mattered to them was their own picture on the screen. So today, HRT is ruled by clans, external, internal, mafia, political, tycoon, journalistic, editorial. Clans make blacklists. Yeah, blacklists exist. They are also created in political cabinets and at business lunches and informal meetings of editorial and journalistic clans. Although usually the helmet behind the portals and the day and a half of the old topics in the newspaper, sometimes the helmet and the topics in the weeklys. You can see the devil is revealing Holly's affair. How? So the contents of Dnevnik 3 days and a half before the broadcast are learned by Mrs. Mamic, the media concierge of the first vice president, Cacic, just her. Mr. Kovačić confides in her the contents of the diary or perhaps Mrs. Mamić trusts Mr. Kovačić with the contents of the Dnevnik. And you see, no one's getting too excited about it. No one asked what that editor was doing with the pyarovk any one of them. No one reacts when on public television the telecommunications expert advocates without resistance the editors cancel with the banks of the most profitable telecommunications company HT. With one-off profits and hundreds of HT part-timers engaged, it is said to be an expert in the European trend. The editor doesn't even notice a speck of illogicality. What did the editor-in-chief say about the scandalous contribution when he was warned? He wasn't looking at him. May the North sees and punishes, the others don't look. Emissions are purchased at high-boiled pipes, movies are bought full of high-priced prices, equipment is rented at high prices, while the established production house succeeds in the competition with none of the twenty projects, the other succeeds with one single. I guess they've made an offer that can't be rejected and they're in business with a big advertiser. In this way the money invested in the ad is returned through soap advertiser. The drama program has been destroyed, the educational program has been destroyed, the culture is trying to curse on the margins, the information program is old-fashioned, unsuspectingly boring, predictable, stereotypen and full of personal animosity of the administration and editors to critics. This is not seen by the Programme Council because it sees only itself, the rest of the Programme Council does not see that it has left five out of eleven members because of the poor HRT policy, and has left an honorable job due to the overall bad situation on HRT. But lovers of grumbling on both eyes see the only guilt in the Assembly's Information Committee. The Assembly Committee has been working on blacklists, the Assembly Committee has concluded harmful contracts, the Assembly Committee has hired 40 law offices, the Assembly Committee has destroyed the drama program, the Assembly Committee is raising pay loans and the Assembly Committee has heard we have to sue yesterday. The council sues, the owner needs to be destroyed. Is there anything to change on HRT? I should. What? Everything. Everything needs to be changed. Is he fast about the changes? He's late for his changes. They were supposed to happen expressly in February, no later than March this year. today, instead of discussing changes and amendments to the HRT Act, we should have discussed who are members of the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council. Yes, we Croatian Labour Party worked for rapid changes. If anything should have been done immediately at the beginning of this term of office, it is the HRT which is as important as the Croatian National Bank, as well as this institution as the Government. Who rules the information that rules the world. Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic should know that. For the benefit of all of us, first and foremost, the citizens of the subscribers and the public and the target society, because we can have a society where there is no society to decide politics. And this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on HRT has drawn up policy by treating HRT as a failed factory of underwear. Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic says that neither he nor the SDP is interested in the information programme but in public, dramatic, artistic. This statement cannot be treated as a lapus but as a surface, ignorance, indolence. There's nothing more public than an information program, and besides, your postulates are set up when it's the basis of the BBC. So there's nothing more public than the information program, Mr. Milanovic, nothing. I'm not going to waste my time at the lab, I'm going to recommend professor for the mentor. Jantola from the Faculty of Political Sciences, noting that the public is an opposition policy factor and therefore the authorities despise the public, is despised by this power. That's exactly how this bill proves it. Although the Ministry of Culture has mystified the creation of this proposal, which media experts write in 2, 3 days, and this is a thousand times better in terms of public service, it is simple to analyse. This law is commissary, it brings us back to the 1970s when everything was decided in political cabinets. Under these amendments, politics chooses all bodies and indirectly through its chief editors. Politics, the majority in the Parliament, at the government's orders, elects the Director-General, elects the Supervisory Board, the Policy elects the Programme Council and, moreover, the most communicative, the chief director who has to take care of HRT's business is appointed by the editors-in-chief. He sets them up and replaces them by order of politics. And how is it supposed to be? The Assembly should elect the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council. The Supervisory Board should be experts in media business. In the Programme Council of 11 dignitaries with excellent media knowledge. After the Board has chosen the Supervisory Board on the basis of the invitation to tender, it shall elect the Director-General who manages the operation and shall neither directly nor indirectly interfere with the arrangement of the programme. If most people choose the board of directors and don't trust those people they chose, so please, what game is that? After selecting the Programme Council on the basis of the invitation to tender, the Council shall elect the editor-in-chief of the radio and the editor-in-chief of the television, on the basis of the invitation to tender. After choosing him, he asks for the binding opinion of creative employees in the program unit. It takes 50% plus one vote to pass the editor-in-chief. But the legislators say we don't trust 11 council members, we don't trust 200, 300 television creators. Why don't they trust them? Because to the council and the press, someone can imagine manipulating. Who? Politics, but false politics. They want their politics. More than one man who is an expert on everything and on business and on the program. This one principal knows more than 311 professional people. It can be manipulated less than 311 people speak about 311 professionals, and politics will be more difficult to influence than 311 people. Because he's a superhero, he's Batman, currently on the task of correcting some of the world's injustices. We're going to have to hire Betman because Chusk Norris is already engaged in similar jobs by 2050 to what it costs to cost. Yes, this law is retrograde. He's a commissar because I'm saying that because of a colleague who got very angry yesterday about the use of that idea. The Commissioner is an official who has special special powers. The principal has extraordinary powers. It is the first director-in-chief to directly appoint and replace the editor-in-chief, it is the abolition of democracy, it is the abolition of free journalism. Such powers do not have either the president of the state, nor the prime minister, or even the first vice president, because he must at least formally request permission from the parliament for some of his moves. With this proposal to amend and supplement the law, media freedoms on HRT will be abolished and journalists will again become social political workers. The public is completely excluded from the whole decision-making process. So why don't you cancel the subscription? Why doesn't it become state television? Why is it that when disfellowshipping the public, it gives public authority on what he can't decide? If this caucus proposal is adopted, which is more harmful than anything that has been voted on so far, we can call HRT a coalition television on which blacklists will be composed first of all political powers as at the time of Pasalić, and then editors who will seek along with financial privileges and the possibility of them getting a little revenge. He'll get revenge on the Kukuriku coalition in the end. Finally, something needs to be said about the EU's famous recommendations. First of all, media areas are at least regulated in the EU. The EU here in Parliament was Mr Van Doren on one round table and then it is said do not listen to Europe when you are editing your public television, keep public television. We need to create public television here in the Croatian Parliament in such a way that public television becomes television for all Croatian citizens, not parties, not parliament, not politics, not governments, not powerful individuals. Only if we have Croatian public television will we be able to be a democratic society. The neoliberal capitalism everywhere in Europe wants to do public television because public television is the only stage on which you and you will rise, you may rise, I hope you will not raise your voice after the second reading of this bill, you will not be able to participate in television that will be managed by another party when it comes to power. We Croatian Labourists will advocate that you amend this law in faith to do good for all of us. We don't want politics to have fingers in editing the program. This bill of law has made one disastrous mistake, everything is acceptable. It is acceptable that the director-in-chief can choose the Parliament, but it is totally unacceptable that the editor, editor-in-chief of the radio and editor-in-chief of the Croatian television selects, is appointed by the head director who is directly responsible to whom, and to the parliamentary majority. And as much as you're being washed that it's not political television, that you don't create political television documents tell you. There's never been a more rigid law on HRT in 22 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9768	Thank you, Your Honor. We have on your exhibit adjudicated incorrect allegations. Let's get this straight. The first is the respected representative Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9769	It is an incorrect claim from counterpart Vuksic that this law abolishs media freedoms. His category machine is shooting out of fat berts, ideological ones. He calls this law a commissary, and according to everything the Labourists say, they'd have introduced a butcher's law. Sam said that their first intention was to liquidate it all, to change the situation in the first second of this Parliament's work. Who cuts the laws, who cuts Parliament. This law is in the first reading, he's in the proposal, there's going to be another reading. It's not just the dotting of media freedoms, and the disastrousness and stories and ideological papacy related to neoliberalism, capitalism and media freedoms that are being abolished not only but it's stretching the neoliberal type of capitalism that really turns out to be plurality.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9770	Thank you very much. ... /The noise in the hall./... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] Thank you very much. ... Please, fellow Marine, thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The next correction of the incorrect allegations is the esteemed representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9771	I'm correcting the inaccuracies of an esteemed colleague who said HTV would become a television coalition. Not a colleague, it will not become a coalition because it was also a kind of democracy, it will become a party television and will bring us back to the time when the hungry people clapped and cried out to their great leaders of the revolution, and all the bad and bad lived and lived in the dungeon of that people. That's where the law leads.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9772	Thank you very much. The next correction of the incorrect allegations is the respected representative Mladen Marelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9773	Your Honor, Vice President. A colleague, Vuksic, said it would block the media. I think he's to us, it's not true, nor did the Prime Minister say he wasn't interested in regulating the day-to-day policy. I think it's also good that politics doesn't interfere with the part that's freedom for the media. But Mr. Vuksic demonstrated to us here how he thinks it and how they thought they would do it if they came sometime if they came near the authorities, so that they would present it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9774	Thank you, too. We've exhausted the corrections of incorrect allegations. We're going to a club debate. The next club is HDZ and two MPs according to their own division. The first is Honorable Representative Jasen Mesic, please. The second is Honorable Representative Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9775	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. This is the first law we have a chance to see from the Ministry of Culture in the term of office of this government. Regardless of what has been announced that many areas of action in culture will be subject to a strategy, analysis will be carried out, here is a new draft of the law, i.e. for its amendments and additions to the Law on HRT we have no opportunity to see any strategy and additions. We had opportunities in the media to see that even the law was planned to be passed in an emergency procedure with a very shortened public debate. It is fortunate that this ambitious movement has failed and that we have had some time for a public debate, so that some of the things in this bill that have been so obvious have been improved. The most important things we haven't been able to fix in the public debate. No journalists, no Croatian news society, no independent intellectuals, no representatives of political parties. I'll remind you of 2010, I'll remind you of the words this is turning television into state television under government control. This is a return to the darkness of media freedom. It's not our words, it's the words of honourable MPs, allow Mr. Vice President of the Parliament to quote you when you say it. I will also quote Mr. Beus Richembergh when he spoke in the second reading of the law, when he praised the Ministry of Culture for having passed the second reading of the law after it was allowed for the Supervisory Board to be elected in proportions between the position and the opposition. I will remind you when the then chairman of the Media Committee congratulated the Ministry of Culture and then the current minister that there was a political consensus. Because we passed the law systematically, because we respected public debate, because we respected and listened to certain suggestions from the European Commission because it is not true that the law has no direct link because this is also about state aid related to Chapter 10. It is true that there is no common legislation in the EU. It's called a crisis on HTV, since I've been watching Croatian TV, or listening to Croatian TV talk about the crisis. What data shows us? Is the management crisis created by the fact that the bodies on the HRT haven't been filled in in in months? Because it's kind of blocked by the Ministry of Culture because there's no law in force. You can think of him whatever you want, but while he's at the High House, while the Republic of Croatia's applicable laws must be respected. The more you voted for them. You voted for them because the current law provided for the ratios between position and opposition, 6 to 5 in the Programme Council and 3 to 2 in the Supervisory Board. The minister herself, Mrs Zlatar Violic, said on the committee clearly and quoted certain opinions of the European Commission who said that the law that was in force was good, that the law is, in terms of political independence, the one that is better than the one proposed in the amendments and additions. The Supervisory Board is being introduced, which is chosen by most of all representatives in the Croatian Parliament without an opposition quota. The Director-General is introduced and it is true and all those who say it is a certain type of commissioner who will in a certain way choose the Chief Director and Television and Radio. He says, however, he will ask for advice from journalists and creative employees at HRT. What about the other editors? What about the information program editor? For him, he doesn't even have to ask the journalist's opinion. The Director-General will have such concentrated powers in his hands as no public enterprise owned by the Republic of Croatia in the Republic of Croatia does. There's over 3,000 people out there. Everywhere you have public companies that size you have administrations. Some famous directorship is being introduced where we don't really know what he's going to be dealing with because it's supposed to be regulated by the statutes, it's actually like a college of directors, in which the appointed head director, appointed by the parliamentary majority, will choose his deputy. By what criteria, how? We don't know. I suppose by my own or God's will. The program council, it's being re-elected here so we don't miss the parliamentary majority. Of course there won't be a management crisis, so everyone will think the same thing because they will all be elected from one political power centre. I will quote you a sentence which is the basis of Public Television "The public services of HRT within the meaning of the law must contain the programme obligations of HRT that meet the democratic, social, cultural needs of Croatian society and guarantee pluralism." So how will this HRT programme guarantee pluralism when we are not here in the Croatian Parliament to respect such pluralism? When are we not able to talk and agree on that responsibility? Of course, now there's a dispute between the bodies on TV when they have to agree. It's best to think the same thing right away and get voted right away. In that sense, why is a public tender needed? Well, we've had a number of situations right here in this House in the term of office of this government where we've proposed things without a public competition. Even here, the appointment of a temporary director is scheduled for six months without a competition. What criteria should be met by this man who will be running Croatian radio television for a maximum period of 6 months? It doesn't say anything. He'll probably agree to that, too. Not to say that, we can go now and by the articles, but I'll discuss it in an individual debate. Not to mention, in the HRT, two HRT employees are being planned in the Programme Council. Whose interests will they represent? Will the interests of the public that should and indeed will the citizens of the Republic of Croatia rightly ask themselves whether they should pay a subscription for such content? If a person also feels that television management is not well, changes can also be made under the applicable law. But that's not why the amendments and the amendments to the law are going because if this law were to remain and the leadership of the HRT could not be named as one that is wanted because the criteria could be respected. That's why this law comes to the hands of those who say it's political one-mindedness and that this is about party television, about television where absolute control is owned by the ruling coalition. Not to mention the announcements of the abolition of additional channels for culture, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9776	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9777	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Public television is generally good. She can't belong to either government or strangers. Governments change, after one party the other come to power, and public television cannot be an election prey because it is not good for that television to change its leadership, its concepts every time after the elections. When the majority elect the director of HRT, it's an election prey. That's how the leaders of some government organizations are elected. My colleagues and colleagues are not quoted from some EU document, HDZ or the European People's Party, these are the thoughts expressed in this House a year and a half ago by the honourable vice president and parliamentary representative of SDP Nenad Stazic. And indeed there is and cannot be an independence of public service if the party or coalition in power can voluntarily choose whoever they want at the head of the HRT. That would be as the second respected SDP officer, Tonci Vujic, said step back towards state television. Or just as he pointed out at the time. Damir Grubisa would be a manipulative attempt to reintroduce state or political control over public television. And indeed here they were in this sense right, and therefore the HDZ government then sought to respect all these remarks and bring the HRT Act into force by consensus. Today, representatives of the SDP are very angry when we say that this proposal by the government of Zoran Milanovic is returning us to party television. We are told that HRT is in a major crisis and that only if SDP and partners can voluntarily appoint HRT Director General. But again, I will refer to the fellow Stazic from the same SDP who, in a somewhat similar way, even the Benign proposal reacted in his own time: "They want to deepen the crisis to create a picture in public that anything is better and also state television." Such tactics are carried out today by no one but the SDP coalition, which has had six months to implement the current HRT Act instead of obstructing it. And she obstructed him by refusing to initiate the selection process for the new members of the Programme Council, as much as the minister publicly admitted that they had consciously obstructed the implementation of Article 27. The law on HRT to prevent the functioning of today's system. That's exactly what she said in the HRT journal on May 30th of the former State Day. Here's what's been lifted. So today we will hear a lot from SDP and partners about the HRT crisis, but we are afraid that it is not our intention to solve the difficult situation on Croatian television, and for that we are all, but only to establish political control over television. Today, the SDP is trampling on everything his champions said a year and a half ago, and maybe more than that. But what is much more important, the SDP today is trampling on the rights of Croatian citizens to a developed democracy that the media will not be controlled by the party in power. A little bit of hope was given on the committee yesterday by Agent Ivan Racan, who, if we understood it correctly, opened the possibility of still considering some changes in the way the principal was elected. But today, unfortunately, we haven't heard from the government, and that is the key thing of this proposal. Because we can all agree on the arrangements of finances and the introduction of order, but the way the principal is appointed is an indicator of whether the Government of Zoran Milanovic wants to control HRT fully or will develop HRT as a public service. In this regard, the President of the relevant European Parliament Committee gave her criticism on this proposal. The same trail was followed by EBU Director-General, European Public Television Association, on behalf of the European profession. The European Commission, too, which, of course, points out that the organisation of the public service is a matter of national legislation, not of legal gain. But the European Commission warned that the government's proposal for a law made by Zoran Milanovic worse than the existing HRT law confirmed yesterday on the board and Minister Zlatar Violic. So how do we move forward with the worse laws? Moreover, the commission is clearly concerned that under this law the parliamentary majority can impose whoever it wants for HRT chief director. It is therefore not true that the Government has respected the European Commission's remarks, because if the chief director is to be elected in the Assembly by most of all MPs, it is clear that the Kukurik coalition will be able to impose its candidate. And what is it then, rather than Kukuriku TV, party television, or as Nenad Stazic once said TV that will be an election prey and whose leadership will change when power changes. Why did these remarks by the European Commission not be presented transparently to the Croatian public, I do not know. But he knows that if this law passes, we will never hear again on Croatian television any excessive criticism of the SDP government. And then, of course, Prime Minister Milanovic will be able to enjoy the art and drama programme. Because he says he doesn't care about the information program at all. And what's he gonna care about when he knows in advance what's gonna happen on the diary? But the fact that the government does not hear messages from the European Commission or the European Parliament is really less important. What concerns is the fact that the government of Zoran Milanovic does not hear and does not want to hear the messages of Croatian citizens asking the government to finally start dealing with life problems and to stop dealing with human resources. And the HRT Act is nothing more than a party key frame. Thank you. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9778	Thank you, Your Honor. We have a report on your exposure, two corrections to the incorrect allegations. He is the first respected representative of Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9779	Thank you, colleagues Mesic and Stier. In fact, the same thesis requires party television to describe the situation while HDZ was in power.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9780	Please let him speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9781	Yes, yes, gentlemen, among other things, it's strange that a qualified majority, let's say, can propose a director. Well, there is no qualified minority in parliaments if parliament is the one who makes some decisions. It's a normal thing to bring most. Well, it's not our fault we won a lot more votes than you. You know the situation in Europe well, you see France as a non-democratic, commissary, party, communicative, etc. TV. Because there's the Programme Council, let's say the President of the Republic of France and the Prime Minister by name and last name. It doesn't occur to anyone to talk about it and take responsibility. You described the situation on that television as cataclysmic, in the end someone has that thing that takes responsibility to change it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9782	Thank you very much. We have reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9783	Your Honor, Vice President. The esteemed representative injured Rule 209, we don't know what he's talking about at all. What I'm trying to tell you is that you've also broken time and already, for the second time, if it's necessary to report for an individual debate and let him discuss it. As far as this goes, I don't know if Mr. Honorable Representative was in the previous assembly of the Parliament? So what bill he voted for then and said that progress, when it was in that sense agreed to affect that pluralism. What's better now that only one party decides? What is the SDP without opposition smarter in lawmaking, more constructive, more democratic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9784	Thank you, Your Honor, but I didn't understand what this was about, the violation of the Rules of Procedure. I understood the replica and I tolerated the replica, it's okay. What? The next correction to an incorrect quote is the correction of the respected representative Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9785	I'm correcting two allegations. First of all, this bill is actually the introduction of party television. And secondly, it's a violation of the rights of Croatian citizens. Especially this second if it is true then it would mean that the HDZ has abolished the rights of Croatian citizens for 8 years, because citizens who trusted someone in the elections did not expect to steal from public companies, to suck out money from the state budget, to sell and buy buildings for 20 million kuna, and that the party they trusted would sit on the defendant's bench for corruption, that is, the fact. They did not know that former HDZ and Croatian Prime Minister Ivo Sanader would now be tried and carried with him in his suitcase. While he was president of the same HDZ and the same Croatian government that you ran for the last 8 years. It was a violation of the rights of Croatian citizens. And here we are talking about a billion and two hundred million biggest parafiscal charge paid by Croatian citizens, which is the fee of HRT over which no one has control at this time and everyone is talking about corruption, non-transparent management of the house. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9786	Thank you very much. ... We're going to discuss clubs. [[Applause.]] Next is the HNS club and respected representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9787	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Ms. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. For the past 10 years in the Republic of Croatia, this is the third intervention in a law that regulates the work of one of the most important institutions, when it comes to public interest, and especially when it comes to public information, which is Croatian broadcasting. Huge efforts were made both in the 2003 law and in the 2010 law. It's a fact and it shouldn't be challenged. Those who proposed must have had good intentions. In both cases, however, it has been shown that the models implemented in the law had their essential shortcomings. Whether these shortcomings are consciously embedded or not, I do not want to speculate, but the fact that the law that the Croatian Parliament adopted in 2010 contains several serious deficiencies that led to the direct generation of a multiple crisis on Croatian broadcasting. It has already been said that one of the most visible crisis management itself, although it would probably be more accurate that the crisis of the program is what is most visible, because we see it every day on the screen. Croatian broadcasting unfortunately does not meet expectations or public information service obligations. She's wandering, she doesn't understand. So key people in Croatia do not understand what public interest in information means. Without any problem, we are offered as a public interest in the rebuke of NDH's family because it does not maintain its tomb in Madrid. So is that possible? And that's a fact. On the other hand, Croatia's most creative people witness narrowing down work space. They testify that individual and private interests in the creation of the programme are rarely put before the public. I'm not going to talk about specific cases right now, they've been brought out very, very much in public for the last few months. The crisis of the management from which all this arises is based on the existing model of governance of the 2010 Law because the law has failed unfortunately to divide and clarify the roles and obligations neither in the management nor in the supervisory control mechanism. We have a situation that we have parallel management systems on Croatian Radio, that with the existing administration we have directors, that we have existing directors and editors who are also doing a part of the production work at the moment. But it's impossible to do a single job without at least three to five signatures. On the other hand, it is also the fact that the key bodies created by the 2010 Law, which are the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board, have become so intertwined in their responsibilities that there is a situation which can be called chaos responsibly. Not only are the bodies not functional because they have come from many who do not agree with this type of work on Croatian broadcasting, but the competence of these bodies is in line with things that are most controversial on Croatian broadcasting. So, let's say, the Programme Council instead of really playing its part as a programming body, so to monitor the fulfillment of public interest, the realisation of public service has become the personnel commission through which the most primitive individual and group interest is broken. We've been witnessing everything that's been going on in the Programme Council for years. In some ways, the position of that body is re-orientated, it is totally powerless because it deals with issues that should not be at all the focus of the authority of such a body. On the other hand, the relationship between the Supervisory Board and the administration itself is completely unclear. The management fully depends, i.e. the Supervisory Board is fully dependent on the will of the existing management president. These are unsustainable situations. Also, the surveillance crisis shows that despite the public's right to citizens already have very specific stories about affairs, corruption, money theft, suspicious external production, money spilling through an external co-operation contract to the fact that only one law firm is able to invoice services worth five million kuna in 15 days. All this proves that there is a process in Croatian broadcasting that none of those who should by law be defined as controllers and supervisors are able to control, control, and in this programmed chaos occur things that primarily harm the public interest because they show in what way irresponsible material, financial and most important human resources are available. We've heard these several debates today, a lot of big and lots of hard words, but also a lot of demagogy. Ratings are offered that the amendments and additions of this Act will define Croatia's broadcasting as party television, as a commissar's television. And there was Lukashenko's TV. Well, we haven't slept through the last eight years, have we? The amendments and additions of this law are aimed at the critical points of the existing system, so that they define the steering mechanisms, to place responsibility at the highest possible point, and to be absolutely clear these mechanisms, to know exactly who is responsible and to establish such a model of governance that will no longer be in the interest of anyone to appoint incompetent and similar, but only those who are quality and capable. Why? Because the logic of things says that your associate who's not good is doing you a favor. The interest is every responsible person on HRT by a new model, by amendments and by additions to the law, to choose the best possible associates because they produce its result or its result. And that's the logic of a clear control structure like this. No one can convince me that the current way of choosing the principal was something, a process in which public interest was kept, in which the public could participate. Well, we remember what it looked like in the election of an existing CEO who was a note from a former HDZ official. What did that look like in the election of the editor-in-chief? The Programme Council and the Supervisory Board have actually become a battlefield of different stakeholders and political interests. That wasn't good. They're disabled in their basic business. Speaking of which, in the event that the Croatian Parliament elects the chief director, the chief director will be the commissioner, the extended hand of a political party. So do you know who you hit with the rain? You have hit the showers of all those sitting at the head of independent institutions elected by the Croatian Parliament. That's how you named the chief state attorney and governor of the CNB, as well as the attorney general, the political commissioner. That's how you interpret the autonomy of an institution whose head they are. These are the people elected by the Croatian Parliament and who correspond to the Croatian Parliament. Today we say that by choosing in the Croatian Parliament, the director-in-chief would be heard, although this is an inadequate translation of the word Hurrying in front of the relevant parliamentary committee, that this will be a reduction of democratic standards, rather than actually allowing the general public to gain insight into the programme, intentions, promises and qualifications of the person concerned. I think it's a twisting thesis. We are absolutely why we are as the Croatian People's Party club of Liberal Democrats to move all political parties away from HRT. I'm afraid politics can't. Why? Because here's politics is here all we do. Let us understand the meaning of the word of politics. It's our responsibility. Therefore, the Croatian Parliament is responsible for the HRT which it has also established under a special law but let the political parties move away. This applies first and foremost to the current HDZ practice which has put pressure directly for 8 years, but not only to past elections. Gentlemen, don't let me remind you that your key HDZ people, and during your internal elections, have called the editors of HRT and sought out whom they will call and whom they will not. That's how it worked on HRT for eight years. For 8 years, you have defined how and who will participate in Croatian radio and Croatian TV shows in one less or more subtle way but you have done so. And you probably have this feeling from that recursion that it might just happen to some other sign. It can't happen here anymore. From today to the new year, the Croatian Parliament will discuss HRT seven more times. 7 times the Croatian public will have the opportunity to see the real situation through the debate at the plenary session and through what the government says and through what the opposition says. Let me remind you, we will discuss the Report of the Programme Council, we will discuss the appointment of the acting director, we will discuss the appointment of the Director-General, we will discuss the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council, etc. The Croatian Parliament is becoming a responsible actor in this case, as the most representative and legislative body assumes responsibility for the state of the service such as HRT and brings to the situation the principal director-in-chief tomorrow to be responsible here in front of the entire Croatian public for how a billion 200, 300 or more million money is spent by citizens who pay a radio-television fee. It is an extremely important thing because until now the Croatian Parliament has not been in a position. He couldn't ask the Director-General or the President of the United Nations Security Authority. In the future, he will. Is that a reduction in democratic standards? Let me finally, on behalf of the HNS Club of Liberal Democrats, express my support for this proposal, along with the proposal, to correct two elements in this proposal which came into the first reading, in Article 22(4) of the third indent, to extend this deadline set by the Croatian Assembly for the opening of competitions for the principal director from 30 days to 90 due to the constitutional break that the Parliament has. I hope that by the end of this session, we will be able to carry out the other obligations prescribed by the law, so that this deadline, instead of 30, is put on 90 so that we can do our job in September. Secondly, in Article 24 of this provision on the entry into force of the law 8 days after its publication in the National Journal to change and to return to the same solution that already exists in the existing law, which is that the law enters into force on the day of its publication in the People's New Ones. I'd like you to consider this, ma'am. And in the end, I just want to say, all those who say this is ad hoc law, and we heard yesterday on the parent board, are wrong, because for 5 months the intensive Croatian public has been through various media, colleges, gatherings, forums discussing what is rotting on HRT and what needs to be changed urgently. It is now up to us to do our job responsibly, honorably and honestly and to enable creative people on HRT to finally work without pressure, without mobbing, without threatening to quit and anything that has happened as a series of affairs on HRT especially in recent months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9788	Thank you, too, Reverend Beus. At your presentation, 8 representatives have been reported to be corrected by an incorrect quote. First is Honorable Representative Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9789	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague who said that the applicable law on HRT is the source of the problem on HRT. I'll say it's incorrect, if it's true what I'm representing Beus Richembergh was saying a year and a half ago, and now I'm going to quote. So this was about the law passed by the coalition government of SDP and partners before, and he then said "the entire public witness of agony in which HRT as the system was not only indirect but that creative part found in recent years". So he was already talking about it, so he criticised the law at the time, and he was just asking that the Assembly not be the one to elect members of the Supervisory Board. And when that change was respected, he said it removes political traps containing the initial bill. Now these same traps you want back but not for the supervisory board but for the entire structure of HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9790	Thank you very much. The next correction to the incorrect allegations was reported by Branko Vuksic, a respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9791	Your Honor, Vice President. My colleague Beus said that he incorrectly said that we claimed that there would be commissary television because of how to choose the principal director. He didn't want to hear one thing, which is why I specifically said in my presentation that it was commercial television. It's a way of choosing the editor-in-chief of the radio, the editor-in-chief of television. The way it's set, you don't choose. It took away the opportunity for journalists to decide, took away the opportunity for the public to decide through their representatives in the council who the editor-in-chief is. Today we have the most rigid bill. It's not an increase in democratic standards, it's a reduction in democratic standards. And I'm asking you when you refer, please refer to the editor-in-chief, that's all that matters. You're talking about irrelevant things. It's the director-in-chief who puts everything and replaces everything, all editors, he edits HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9792	Thank you very much. The next correction of the incorrect allegations is the respected representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9793	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my esteemed colleague, Beusa, has proven that nothing is wrong with television that doesn't need to be proven, it's not right, we know that ourselves. And it's no good because the guilty party chose the wrong people because it's the same truth, she chose them. All of a sudden everything's gonna get good because the right party's gonna pick the right people. In fact, so far HDZ has implemented human resources policy on HRT, in fact esciting and bypassing the democratic procedure seen by the people who stayed there and those who had to leave. That's true. You are now prescribing a situation where it will not be necessary, it will not be necessary to bypass the democratic procedure. You are instituting a non-democratic procedure that will follow nicely and everything will actually be the way the party wants it to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9794	Thank you very much. The next correction of the incorrect allegations is the honourable representative of Djurdzica Sumrak. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9795	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's the fact that I didn't have a plate of insults to common sense, I had to lift a correction to the incorrect assumption because indeed this debate of colleagues Richembergh offends common sense and us most of us in the Croatian Parliament, as well as citizens and citizens watching this program. Because speaking of how the best CEO will finally be elected now, it will be democratic television, it is indeed an insult to common sense, and it is about what you said to your colleague Richembergh in passing the former law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9796	Thank you very much. The next correction of the incorrect allegations is the respected representative Jasen Mesic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9797	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's what I owe you three corrections of the wrong quote. So the public debate on this law began when the version of the amendment and the addition of the law was published on the Ministry's website, so it didn't last for months, but rather that number of days. In no case, if we choose the principal of some of the institutions, but we don't choose the programming board and the supervisory board and directors anywhere. And the third thing that I wanted to say and correct is that obviously when you spoke like this, we obviously assume that the second reading of the amendments and the addition of this law will be before summer, at this same session, which is also not a good democratic practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9798	Thank you very much. The next correction is the correction of the respected representative Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9799	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting the incorrect assumption that this law is being passed to remove all political parties from HRT management. On the contrary, it is clear to everyone who has read the law that SDP and HNS want to influence this law, directly interfere in the politics and management of HRT because it is quite logical if most of them choose the director, and in this home most of them have SDP and HNS, then they will directly influence what will happen on HRT, and especially what this director will choose the editor-in-chief. So directly you, as political parties, will interfere with HRT's work and interfere with the information programme that your president says doesn't matter to him. counterpart Beus worked very hard, but he was not particularly good at it because he was not credible in view of what he was saying earlier, and then, in the old tradition, when there are no arguments, he reached for HDZ and said HDZ is trying to interfere with the programme. HDZ had no instruments, if there were informal interventions we don't know about, and you probably know about it through Mrs. Mamic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9800	Thank you very much. The seventh correction to the incorrect allegations was reported by the respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9801	Thank you. I'm correcting Mr. Beus, the esteemed representative who said that the future director of HRT would not be a political commissioner. Otherwise, it's hard to correct this one set of demagogy. Indeed, it will not be a political commissioner but will be executive secretary of agit propa, it is definitely clear, as the proposal coming from a party that has turned into a neoliberal party, at this point towards HRT acts exclusively conservatively and wants to place the entire HRT in the role of the party, leaders. And soon we will be back at a time when on HRT we will have transfers of the party congress where I repeat the hungry people will cry to their great leader, and no other information will be able to go to that HTV, and that there will be no more transmission of meetings of the Croatian Parliament no matter how many times the topic in the Assembly was HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9802	Thank you very much. And the eighth correction of the incorrect allegations was reported by the respected representative Dinko Buric. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9803	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, colleagues and colleagues, I'm correcting Mr. Beus' incorrect claim that it's been up to eight years to decide who can and who can't make it to HTV. This may refer to the time when Sanader really ruled both the state and the party, including everything in Croatia, but one fact must be acknowledged. I'm against the fact that in an inappropriate way, I'd like to say that all HTV and HRT employees are also disproved by the findings that there's absolutely nothing wrong with it. It's just not true. We also insult the effort and work of those people who try to do their job with honor. Many things are not good and should be changed, but remember colleagues from today's ruling coalition, we are against this proposal for one simple reason. If there was no openness of the media, including the HTV, where fierce criticism was allowed at the time of the ruling HDZ, and we from the HDSB Club have the right to say and broadcast all of this to the media, then we are against saying that there was censorship and the ruling were absolutely controlled. I'm afraid, I'm afraid, I'm afraid, with this bill of law, you want to prevent exactly that for some future election at least HRT, if not other commercial televisions don't transmit what citizens need to hear about the failures you're already doing very much. And I'm afraid it really doesn't end up getting a ban on even transferring meetings of the Croatian Parliament where citizens should be.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9804	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9805	Let it be as it has been in the last year with additions and improvements, but such a bill as you are now... [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9806	A fellow Buric... You have a colleague Buric to switch 100% of the time. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, it's not. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You're more. Thank you very much. We're going to a club debate. On behalf of the SDP club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Josip Kregar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9807	Dear Mr. Chairman, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues. This law, which lies before us, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on HRT, is a key step in addressing the problem of governance of HRT. For some the law comes too late because there is a crisis and regardless of the conflicting conclusions in the diagnosis that exist in my predecessors, the important consensus. The crisis exists, however, it should be noted that it is not the result of the case. Important Croatian institutions do not function because they do not act as planned, so we cannot judge the law whether it was good or not, but their non-functioning is due to lobbying and special interests that have led to division, conflict, which make it impossible to manage HRT. That's what you need to concentrate on. Others will say that this law is passed too quickly. Because if a strategy were to be adopted before that, said Mr Mesic, resolve conceptual problems and bring unique ones, I would say a code of media law that will regulate specific areas. It would be quite difficult, however, and it would be unserious to agree to such an attitude because they are expected that changes should follow because the crisis is open, scandals are coming down to such an indefinite moment. That's the kind of time we don't have to wait for. I will highlight several elements that I consider important and positive in this legislation. First of all, the question to which, which is about speed, how is it brought? It is a public debate that starts when the law is defined. However, here the rush of the public led to the fact that we had a whole series of professional, professional, qualified debates on the state of the HRT organised by journalists, organised by civil society associations, where people stepped down and some from these benches who held their views. The public debate, however, was marked and marked by great differences between attitudes. Some of them we see today. And it wasn't easy to unite them or it was impossible to unite them into one law. Different ways of choosing, say, directors, different powers and things like that were sought. But this very feature of public debate to discuss very different things is the most important, the greatest gain. Another thing I would like to say briefly is, could the law have come to this House without the opinion of the European Commission? Many of us may think that, in this respect, because the acquis does not exist, that the practice in different countries of Europe is different, that we could show that courage, but please, this means accepting the political risk that Croatia as a state is not cooperating with the European Commission. Whoever wants to take that risk will say that we're late, but that's one of those things that this government has to deal with. It must count on sympathy or antipathy not being so important in politics, but it certainly is. The adoption, i.e. the adoption of this law after a public debate and after the opinion of the European Commission, is very important and good. Those steps were necessary. I want to comment on one thing that has different opinions, but you need to look at what the European Commission thinks about this law. If it says that the former law was good but was not applied or there are implementation problems it does not mean that the earlier law was good because it was not applied. And what's one of the important elements in this proposal is that realistically judge what will work, and that will only be a cover for what lobbying and the special interests I've been talking about. This debate also talked about what they were and talked about were the high powers of the principal. In the early 20th century, management theorists Anais Fayol formulated a very important thing, which is that responsibility only goes with authority. There's no responsibility if there's no authority. And another important thing he said is that in situations of good governance there must be unequivocality, he says the unity of command. Unequivocally about what will be decided, what will be applied and who is responsible for what. In this situation as my predecessors have described as chaotic as full, a situation full of problematic scandals and suspicions of abuse, I think it's one of the necessary, necessary measures. The position of the principal is really strong, but I doubt anyone could take responsibility for their work if they were not given the authority to decide on many matters on HRT. The selection process is democratic and transparent. It is chosen by the Parliament, but we can't say you could choose, say, a referendum. It's chosen by most of them and let me say which most of them, I think it's a good idea that a solution is accepted that a qualified majority decides on it, about that person. Qualified, so two-thirds is not, excuse me, there are various forms, two-thirds are the majority, with us two-thirds of the constitution and constitutional law. Well, isn't there one law of this kind on the same level as the Constitution? Here is said to the qualified majority, which is the majority of the total number of MPs in the Parliament. Not those who vote, but those chosen, and most of them are qualified. As far as opinion is concerned, it says and defines which of the employees will give their opinion of such a director. The advisory opinion was considered not enough, but that it should be mandatory, but that would mean that no one chose but the staff of a suitable and dear principal. This allows an opinion to be expressed, very likely to be respected. Because it's hard for one candidate who hasn't received much support or almost most or most of those creative employees to be a good director with a certain authority. As far as the Supervisory Board is concerned, I find it a little odd that a solution was actually praised here to achieve the keys between political parties. Because that, the principle of political party agreement, I think it's leaving for a reason. What we're looking for here is a certain qualification for this job as well as for the Programme Council. And the process, which includes a discussion on the board of this House, which will be public, which includes a milder word, an interview with the candidate for chief director, will also be on the committee. I, in this guaranteed procedure, fully transparently see and guarantee that for the principal and members of these bodies we will get people who can publicly show their profile, who can publicly show that they are capable of performing such functions. And that's why I think it's a very good solution. In this law very little and not enough, what may change may be what will highlight the public character of Croatian broadcasting, but this is also amended in Article 1. What has, of course, been highlighted in the debate today, is the fact that Croatian broadcasting is public, but it must also deal with commercial televisions. And in this sense, it must have one specific, one specific profile of the programme that will satisfy the balance between opposing ratings requirements, which require a certain dose of uplifting to viewers, but also an extremely important educational and cultural function. In that I support all those demands that require it. Let me finally say something about the style of this debate today. Here were the terms that should have highlighted the determination, the strength of the arguments of those who used them, and it was mentioned that it was the Commissioner's decision-making type. Even Mr. Vinkovic also said that this is about Goebbels television, in any case it was said to be coming back one in. I wish such attempts to replace the thesis were not used, these are not arguments but disqualifications. This does not mean that this is not a debate about what the content of this law is, and that is a change in the way of governance, but is a requirement to turn this issue into a general political issue in which we will all feel that there is no solution. The law, however, is quite pragmatic in that it offers a solution. It offers a solution to the management crisis of Croatian Radio Television, respects the views expressed in the public debate, and also the views of the European Commission. In some ways, it offers a model of governance and requires your support, everyone, in which it will be clear who is responsible and what TV is worth watching. But most importantly, this law when adopted will mean the end of the scandal and the tension of that guy that we have now and today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9808	Thank you, Your Honor. At your presentation, 9 MPs have reported a correction to an incorrect quote. Let's go in order, honourable representative Gordan Jandroković, first correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9809	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, this law is a key step in solving the crisis managed on Croatian radio, says counterpart Kregar. That's incorrect, there's been a crisis for years, but you're not looking for a solution. You are already using the crisis to impose such a legal solution that will allow political control over Croatian Radio Television. You use the crisis and weaknesses of this system to control the Croatian Radio and Television, not to protect the public interest. And at the end of the day, your colleague Kregar, you act as though Croatian radiotelevision is seriously ill, but you are not offering and are not looking for a cure for this disease, but you are offering a post-mortem aid, with which you have a lot of experience.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9810	Thank you very much. We're going to the next correction to the incorrect quote, the esteemed representative Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9811	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, if you're going to talk about qualified majority and in this context quote the European Commission's statement and remarks, then you should quote it correctly. Because there's a clear talk of what a qualified majority. So the parliamentary majority can't impose the chief director they want, and that's what needs to be said. So if you want to quote, quote correctly. You didn't have to say we respected the European Commission's remarks, when that's not true, but say it openly, we didn't respect them, we're going our way, past what the Commission said. So tell the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9812	Thank you, too. The next correction to the incorrect allegations was reported by the respected representative Jasen Mesic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9813	Thank you. I have a correction to the incorrect allegations of an esteemed law enforcement professor. And we wonder why here are the last months of the current law not being implemented, or not being respected. So, there's no filling up the vacant seats in the Program Council. And I asked myself that in my speech. Perhaps the problem of implementation is much greater and what the European Commission wants to say than the fact that such a law is impossible to implement. So why don't we implement the provisions of the applicable law that is in force? That's illegal, isn't it?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9814	Thank you very much. The next correction of the incorrect quote and the esteemed representative of Sunchana Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9815	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to correct a colleague of the Craigs who so heroicly said it meant political risk. I'm asking you nicely don't take it as a hero, don't play with the fate of public media space. As far as the board's intelligence and calling for an interview, we who sat on that committee and earlier witnessed were impressive biographies, it is therefore an amendment or my proposal to better talk about making candidates propose a business promotion programme. And as for political interference then please don't talk about it, but think about the formulation that the CEO says should not be a member of the political party, especially in a situation where he manages the HRT on his own. Therefore, it is not enough to limit only membership in the bodies of political parties. Think about that formulation when you compete with political parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9816	Thank you, too. The next correction of the incorrect quote and the esteemed representative Nenad Stazic. Here you are, Your Honor, Vice President of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9817	Dear colleague Kregar, you said: "It is difficult to assume that the chosen will be someone who will not have the full support of creative staff." Unfortunately, it is not so hard to imagine. This happened in this Programme Council, which did not respect the will of creative staff and which was chosen by the editors-in-chief beyond that will of creative staff and thus created a crisis with such irresponsible behaviour. That's why the law has to be changed. Exactly what the law predicted was the responsibility of these people, it predicted that those general interests, the interests of HRT assumed their personal interests, and they failed to do so. They have led to this crisis of HRT and we all agree that it exists and they have led to the creation of the need to change the law and introduce more responsible behaviours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9818	Thank you, too. The next correction of the incorrect allegations is the respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9819	Dear Vice President, I'm correcting two incorrect allegations. First, Mr. MP said that the law is actually a solution to the crisis, that it is brought to solve the crisis. The solution to the crisis is the shift of people who have done wrong and who have done wrong and who have been in this crisis and the administration before. They've done bad things before, but nothing's been done. Another incorrect allegation is that Croatian broadcasting must be handled with commercial televisions. It's completely wrong. The duty of Croatian broadcasting is to perform public functions. She's not in a commercial TV game and it's the biggest mistake when editors want to compete out of ignorance with commercial televisions. If they're going to have a third commercial TV, then we're here to discuss Croatian radio television.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9820	Thank you very much. The next correction of the incorrect allegations is the respected representative Darko Milinovic. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9821	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Kregar said that this government is at risk of implementing this law. I think it's, that this government is taking a much bigger risk. Let us not forget that a report is coming in October this year on the monitoring of the Republic of Croatia, and there will be a report on the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board without a public tender, that there will be a report on the attempt to amend the Law on Police, that there will also be stories about the law and amendments to the Law on conflict of interest, so if we get it, and of course there will be this new law, which the European Commission has already negatively determined at least somewhat. So this government is taking a much bigger risk. For this monitoring report to be negative, and that would mean the prolongation of the term from 1 July of next year when Croatia should become a full member of the European Union. So the much greater risk with these laws passed by this government is a much greater risk than just the implementation of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9822	Thank you very much. The next correction of the incorrect allegations and the respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9823	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Kregar, a respected professor, said incorrectly that the comment in the debates in front of clubs is that they are arguments, that they are not arguments, but that it is a disqualification of the current draft laws. In fact, it is absolutely incorrect, because if the consensus had been reached in this Croatian House in 2010 about this law then it would have been arguments that would remove such doubts. This kind of political literature that's being put before us by the MPs this time is certainly not about public television, it's about state television. Politically controlled television will certainly not be public television, and the commissar's leadership will not be what we wanted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9824	Thank you very much. The next correction to the incorrect allegations was reported by the respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9825	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I also noticed this incorrect assumption that this law is a key step towards solving problems in Croatian broadcasting. That's incorrect. It's a step backwards and there's no slow. You said it would also encourage the creativity of the creator of the program. Well, co-worker Kregar's fear doesn't enhance creativity, it reduces it, because if someone comes into a situation where they're being replaced by the CEO and someone from one of the editors, it'll be a clear message to the rest of them. You watch what you do because you see what happens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9826	Thank you very much. We have exhausted the list of corrections of incorrect allegations, and now notices to MPs and MPs that, in accordance with Article 207 paragraph 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament at 11 o'clock and 10 minutes, the time for the application of the debate for 10 minutes has elapsed. Second notice. I propose to the MPs and MPs that we work without a break today so that we can discuss this bill and two others on the agenda. So the laws that are related to executive matter. Thank you very much. The next club is club IDS and respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9827	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Department's representatives, the MPs. Well, I think it's good that this law goes first in two readings. It might be good if it goes into that third reading, and I am convinced that at least some of the well-intentioned suggestions the Proposer will accept. We see what it seemed like to many, first of all, I dare say high-ranking on HRT, hoping that this law will not pass. But let's sort of get a green light in Brussels. Also many of those high-ranking HRTs hoped this law would see the fate of that Police Act, but I also think they were wrong. But I need to be honest, and that's where I agree with Stier and quote what Brussels actually said and I'm literally quoting based on the translation from the Globe. He says, "The existing 2010 law was very good even though there was a problem with its implementation. With regard to public TV independence, the new law is somewhat weaker. In order to prevent a setback in the area of freedom of the media, Croatian authorities will have to exercise it very carefully." Among other things, they say, "The appointment of the head director, the procedure for the appointment of the head director looks weak. Instead of qualified majority," but we see that it is now the minister or minister himself who proposes "the bill proposes a choice for an ordinary majority in Parliament". That's the suggestion here, but it's the other one. "This means that a political party that has a majority in Parliament could name whoever it wants to. Parliament can very simply further cite the removal of the principal so as not to accept its annual work report. The criteria that the candidates for the principal director must meet are also unnecessaryly reduced in relation to the existing legal solution." There's a finished quote so we just know what we're talking about. But everyone here said, and I'm going to do the same thing again, that things on HRT should certainly be in order. I don't think any of us, and neither of the gentlemen across the street should be involved in editorial policy, I don't know the editor, the journalist, etc. But let's just look at these last Sunday headlines from Morning Eve, and then this is how it says "The shocking truth about corruption on HRT." On the evening "Haunting the Hunting of the Prisca Octopus" etc. And it should be settled. And that is why we need to agree on a new law, but we need a good and stable law that will survive to express this House's call. That is why new people at the head of HRT are needed, which is why it is also necessary to apostrophe I dare say the role of Parliament, although I don't think it will end up the way this Parliament wants it to be, but logically it will always be the way it has always been until now, as the government will. And that may change at the moment when we, as mayors, mayors, will be elected directly. Clearly, when we talk about the law to see something personal in it, even though my case certainly won't solve this HRT Act. For 3.5 years, I've been running a dispute, I haven't talked about it once after this pay phone, so I'm having a dispute with HRT, sorry they're running a dispute with me, not me with them, because of a statement that almost every show can be bought on HRT. That's why I've been slow with them for 3.5 years. More specifically, to make amends, because they think they're buying and selling shows. And the next hearing was scheduled for or for 29th or 30th of Wednesday, it doesn't matter now. And what can you do for them? There's nothing you can do to them. They have a billion-and-a-half kuna budget, they can drive you crazy, and they say that they are fighting for freedom of speech for the independence of institutions, freedom of word, sanctity of opinion, etc., etc. And now, you see, this Grammy on HRT that I don't name them, I say they fight for themselves first. And Mr. Vuksic said before or wondered, who rules the HRT? HDZ says no. Does the SDP rule? He says no, too. Says IDS? I rule yes. I rule, I have terrible power on both HRT and other media, whether it was local or national. But I'm saying, that's what Vuksic said. The clans rule. The clans realized what we all know is power, that it's influence, that it's power. The Croatian government is also being distracted, let us go, and we'll let you into politics. And then there's someone there for example for the rest of us to sue. I didn't say it once, I'll say it now. For me, HRT is, no matter what, still good television, the best TV in Croatia. If nothing else, it's a public service, at least a man can get there. These assembly sessions are being passed on and it should remain and God forbid it should occur to anyone to cancel these transfers when every city, every municipality, and so on. pays those transfers to its city councils. Although sometimes many would not want to hear what is said there. But how are things? The media here we all agree must be independent. What they're not is another thing. We've been tracking the Vesnik's downfall, if HRT didn't have this reservation of those billions and 100 million kunas, so these ordinary ones like commercial television would just eat them. What's the impact on the other side and politics, but also capital, monopoly, tycoon on the media, we all know that. But we also know that the media is somehow trying to function as some kind of parallel government. Not only as a correction of power, which is fine, but also as a parallel hair. We know very well what it is to be honest and local, and state, and the county government prepares to do for media affection. Let's not paint everything we know, but we're not all clearly involved in it. On the other hand, it is easy to point fingers at anything in Croatia, but it is not so easy to point fingers at the media. And we know why, because I can literally bury you politically, morally, humanly. You can say, I don't know, in HNS there's a gunpowder. What can Markovic or anyone else do to you? There's nothing I can do for you. We can tell that power was like this or something. What can he do? Nothing. We can do the same for this government, or for this Parliament that doesn't decide to say anything anyway, they're like this or they're like that. But you say that for some medium? Well, of course you're going to tear it up. I don't know who not to tell. If you sponsor them on the other hand, if you have any influence over the capital of the executive, then they won't touch you. As never clear or few who touches their sponsors or political mecenaries. But it is not now that I am equally sincere to do so differently in one Italy with Berlusconia or in Great Britain as it is called Murdoch, who is now on the Adriatic Sea and is still cold in the Adriatic Sea, but good. What his journalists were doing, listening to 3,000 phone numbers, from the queen's family to the prime minister's wife, etc. That's terrible, so they just didn't do it in the '30s secret service in England, and that's what some journalists do today. And I absolutely did, the thing on HRT needs to change. I agree with those who say the CEO has nothing to choose from the editor-in-chief, which I don't think is right. I mean it, I don't have to be right. Let the Parliament choose the director, let him choose, and let the editors choose the editors, let the Croatian journalists choose the HRT. Politics if possible and will not always be possible, out of the HRT. But I also know, we all know it, it's all politics, and HRT is also someone's going to say politics. And I don't believe anyone who sits here in the Parliament or in the government is more concerned about culture than it is about information shows. Football agree it's something else, come on, I agree. I also agree that whoever said that, Stier, quoting Mr. Stazic, HRT must not be anyone's prey. I agree, the governments are changing, we need a long-term good law that will outlive this and that future ruling furniture. I am for the full autonomy of editors, I am for the full freedom of journalists, I am for journalists to be invulnerable, but also for the protection of the privacy of the people they deal with. I'm against being planted in journalism, etc., etc. I am against the principle that today is ruling in some media, especially this public, HRT, etc., let us go and we will not touch you. That's what I'm saying, one parallelism of power. I may not have expressed myself well, but that's how I sort of translate it myself. And that's how HRT worked. And if you've stuck your finger on it three or four years ago then you've been on the wallpaper, but I'm still saying, for me personally HRT is still the best television ever. And now you really need to pick people who will be for HRT, not for politics on HRT, who will not think it matters down here in Split or Ilica or in Ibler Square or Pantovčak or I don't know where to say tycoon, etc. So you have to choose people, I'm talking about the principalship, this TV management that's going to restore to HRT, who's not going to be in the service of anyone but the public, and clearly those people, employees, journalists, editors, cameramen, maids, etc. working on HRT. If you returned HRT in 2012, to the position it was in the early '90s or '70s, it doesn't matter, you've been giving it to anyone who's free to think. And that this law can already mean running into a new, now winning camp of many editors, journalists, etc., so it's clear to everyone and it's not a good message. If he's the new director, the directorship, the leadership of HRT I don't know what to call him, thought that the public service, that the service of those employees who work on TV, then he's sure he's gonna have an ally, maybe not in us, it doesn't matter, we're not important right now, we're important to his employees. If he's playing political games, you know what he's gonna do, he's gonna have to surround himself with the sluts, let those creeps do what they've been doing so far, and in two or three years, HRT's gonna be in the same or bigger problems than it is today. And HRT is in huge financial trouble, no matter what we provide them with that support as it is said or a billion-and-100-million-dollar subscription. They're in huge inter-human problems, problems of mistrust among employees, and I don't need to tell you about it. Maybe tomorrow there'll be some jurisprudence, etc. I know someone can say outside this Assembly again they deal with themselves when they talk about HRT etc., but HRT is money. It is a billion and 500 million kuna I would say money, sponsors, citizens of the Republic of Croatia, sometimes money from the state budget. It's power, it's influence, it's politics, that's what politics always fight for. Let's not just fool ourselves because everything else would be demagogy and this Assembly should be spoken of by HRT. When we talk about these choices we've played a lot of games, we know how someone chooses an attorney, so the governor, so the chief of staff, so this one, we all know that they're all saying independent, etc., we all know that they're bound to act by law but the heart is heart, reason is reason, the law is law, and I'll always choose myself more favorably though someone will say it isn't. And what's important, why am I saying this, that the next day at the loss of power and that director put his mandate nicely on the table, but it can be placed by the director, not by the editor and not by those editors or editor-in-chief, whatever we call him, follow the fate of the director if we want an independent television. All in all the law needs to be passed, the law is good to go to another reading, the law I believe will be corrected, and I agree that this editor-in-chief should in some way be separated from some discretionary opinion of the head director appointed by the note by the political majority and for which I will probably vote in this House as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9828	Time. Thank you very much. At your presentation, Honorable Agent Cain, we have a report of three corrections of an incorrect allegation. The first to be corrected was registered by the respected representative Jasen Mesic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9829	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I wanted to have a far-reaching correction of the incorrect allegation, but the esteemed representative of Cain was corrected in the second part of the exhibition so that I had only a correction of the incorrect quote relating to the inconsistent translation of the European Commission document published in one of the other printing works in the original, and because of what you have quoted, there are some things that have already been corrected and amended as a result of the public debate, and we have to admit that. It's just proof that public debate is useful, it's just proof of how important consent is and how valuable it can be for the final document.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9830	Thank you very much. The next correction of the incorrect quote and the esteemed representative Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9831	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You have said a lot exactly, but you have incorrectly stated that the Minister has announced today and will respect the European Commission's remark that the way the Director-General is going to be elected will change so that the majority of the Parliament cannot impose with their own free will whoever they want. She didn't announce it today, unfortunately. It would be good to respect that observation, unfortunately it was not done today. And that's actually the key thing because it's this very headmaster who appoints this proposal after and editors. And there's actually this key to political control that wants to be introduced to HRT. And that needs to change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9832	Thank you, too. The next correction of the incorrect allegations and the esteemed representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9833	Thank you. Well, here you are, Agent Caine, saying that the clans rule the HRT and that Omert rule the HRT. ... No, you said one thing and the other, I wrote it down. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I mean, and yet HRT is Croatian national television, one medium serious Croatian and I think it is from us no matter how we approach to constantly in one mud we dip everything. And all state and all national institutions. Well, HRT isn't a mob organization, if there's a form of mob behavior, that's why there are the institutions of this country that need to be dealt with. And I don't think we should turn all our institutions into mob organizations. You also said that you should choose people who will not go to Pantovčak or Iblero's square and so on, and you started your debate with what Brussels told us. So we are representatives of the Croatian Parliament, elected by the Croatian people, Brussels told the government and did not tell us. We are told by the Croatian people who choose us in the elections and we answer to the Croatian people, not Brussels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9834	Thank you, Your Honor. Next debate on behalf of the club in the Croatian Assembly of the HDSSB and respected representative Ivan Drmic in the first part, and according to their agreement in the second Dinko Buric. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9835	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Madam Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. This law, i.e. the amendments to the laws that are proposed today and which are here today before us if, of course, they get a sufficient number of votes, will bring major changes to HRT's work. By the time these changes were made, that is to say, on HRT with its right hand, the flag of HDZ was waved, and the left hand was mixed under the table. By bringing these amendments to the law, it will no longer be so. The left hand will wave the flag of the SDP, possibly the HNS for the coalition, with its right hand mixed under the table. The right hand will non-transparently dispose of the money of Croatian citizens, the money that Croatian citizens pay in HRT's treasury through a generally known hack or fee for HRT, which is collected annually around a billion and 200 million kuna. It's not the only change. Before the adoption of this law in HRT shows, the smartest, most capable, most sacrificed citizens of this country were Ivo Sanader, after which Jadranka Kosor, with her Ministers Suker, Cobankovic and others, and after these changes, it will no longer be so. The most capable, the smartest, most beautiful will be Prime Minister Milanovic, with him the first Deputy Prime Minister Radimir Cacic, Zeljko Jovanovic, Milanka Opačić and all other ministers. It'll be different after the law's passed. Finally, one, perhaps the most important change, the president of the HRT administration will no longer be the head of the administration, he will be the head of the HRT and will no longer be president of the HDZ Youth as so far but will be president of the Youth of the SDP or possibly if there is an agreement within the ruling coalition, and since the Minister of the HNS, perhaps the new director will also be the president of the Youth of the HNS. Unfortunately for us, I think that anyone who has read this amendment to the law does not expect any different changes to happen in HRT's work. We're still going to pay an expensive TV subscription that brings together as much as a billion and 200 million kunas. We will continue to watch an average television programme that does not depart from the other two commercial televisions but, unlike our Public Television, which spends about a billion and a half kuna of this commercial television yearly between 250 and 300 million kuna. Foreign production of expensive and non-quality TV series, a foreign documentary programme will continue to be purchased, and HRT employees will not be allowed to record a quality documentary, historical Croatian programme, a children's programme that they know how to record very well and quality. It's not allowed because it's a cheap program and it's not allowed to sew anything up. It's better and it's better to buy a non-quality program in an external production. There are 3.5 thousand employees on HRT. Of those 3.5 thousand people, I believe most people know how to do their job, and they want to do it. The problem is only in the leadership of HRT, which is not in the financial interest, of private financial interest. Unlike this television, between 300 and 350 people are working in these two commercial televisions, and their program is not a big deal and it is certainly not much more invaluable than the Public Television programme. Even in the ratings, as far as I'm following certain polls, they're much better off than HRT. My colleagues from the HDSSB and I will be against these amendments to the law. Not because we have been told, according to a HDZ colleague, that this is not good and that we should not accept this programme. We will be against it because we represent not the EU's interest but the interests of Croatian citizens. We represent the interests of Croatian citizens who fill that register with mentioned billions and 200 million kuna, and here you have had an opportunity in one daily newspaper and see the fate of one as they called it in the 83-year-old Grandma Joke, who has a pension of 700 kuna, which has a small transistor and a debt to HRT that goes on top of 6100 kuna. The next two years, HRT will take 270 kunas a month. The worst will be when Grandma Yoko and the other several thousand citizens who are in a similar situation see tomorrow on television how their bloody money that was stolen from them is spent untransparently and ends up in private pockets. This is why we will be against this law because everything else, those negatives that were on Croatian television will still be the same. The clans will remain the same, the only difference is that these clans will be managed, not by the president of HDZ youth, but by the president of the SDP-A youth. And therefore, also because of Grandma Joka and other Croatian citizens who are in such a situation, the HDSSB club will not support the amendments to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9836	Thank you very much. And respected representative Dinko Buric, also on behalf of the HDSSB club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9837	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Madam Minister. Therefore, we do not necessarily need to be fooled, and we need to make it clear and loud that this proposed law is nothing more than a real attempt to put Croatian broadcasting under party control today's ruling majority. That's where you need to be quite clear. What HRT was under, primarily led by Ivo Sanader while he led the HDZ and the Croatian government, and it was not much better yet, but it was not so expressed. So, what HRT was under Sanader as party HDZ television is this SDP proposal wants to do the same for itself now. And nobody cares about the truth or the public, or the first public on the truth, or the first employees of Croatian broadcasting, or the right to their own opinion, but for opinions that the ruling Croatian citizens would like to have about them. I will also remind you of the words of a Scottish philosopher who, by defining his paradox, the paradox of the authorities said: "How every government must rest on mind control.". The difference between dictatorial and democratic, or so on. democratic systems are in a very simple position, if people can be controlled by force, which is a feature of dictatorial systems, then it is not so important to control what these people think or feel. But if you lose the ability to control people by force, and that's the mark of so-called. The democratic systems then become necessary to control their views and opinions. It's necessary to control, not only what people do, but what they think. Since the state lacks the opportunity to ensure obedience by force, it is called democratic rather than dictatorial. Thoughts can lead to the power of unwanted parts and therefore the threat of order should be destroyed at the source. He said this, probably the most famous contemporary linguist and the most significant name of modern anarchism Noam Chomsky. Was there a warning here about what the European Commission said? My colleague Ivan Drmic told me that we at the HDSSB club are not primarily guided by any directive we receive from Brussels, or from any other centre. But yes, I'll tell you, when it's a pleasure and about Zenica, we'd be happy to take the opinion of the Croatian General who created the Croatian State. But today by ruling, and by those who were before them, they go to foreign embassies and foreign intelligence services. So much for your incursion, Mr. Silvano Hrelja, for the Croatian public. We are proud of it, and you should be ashamed in the ruling coalition that in the opinion of the fate of Croatian citizens you are going to foreign embassies and the centre of foreign intelligence services. However, despite the fact that we are not primarily guided by the recommendations and the opinion of the European Commission, we must not ignore the fact that we are always calling so much for what we say to Brussels for compliance with the legal gains of the European Union. That when we answer that, we do, and when it doesn't suit us, then we don't. No wonder, distinguished Professor Kregar that the European Commission is sending warnings, that the new Law on Croatian Television is weaker than the existing one. I will also remind you of your incorrect claim, as the qualified majority means, and the warnings from the European Commission have come in terms of expressing concern that this proposal provides for decision-making by a qualified majority. Yes, it is true that in the Croatian Constitution in the 5th point, the Constitution is spoken when decisions are made by a two-thirds majority. In addition to Article 83 of the Treaty The organic laws on the first national minorities, and in Article 105, when the violation of the Constitution is by the President of the State, and in Article 126, when we elect constitutional judges, and in Article 140, when we make decisions on international contracts and in Article 149 itself when we amend the Constitution. However, the notion of a qualified majority is interpreted differently in different European Union countries and you, I'm convinced you know but you deliberately keep your mouth shut. And I will now remind you of the fact that voting in the Member States, the Member States of the European Union, voting by qualified majority is the most common way of making decisions in the Council of the European Union. However, for the adoption of a specific proposal two conditions should be met and in some cases three conditions. The first condition is that 255 of the 345 votes held by the Member States of the European Union for a specific decision, which is 73.9%. Not half of all members. The second condition is that votes must come from most Member States. And the third condition, that the qualified majority must represent at least 62% of the population of the European Union, and that the fulfilment of this condition is entrusted clearly at the request of any of the Member States. We also warned of this when discussions were under way on the ratification of the agreement, the adoption of the Lisbon Treaty, etc. Therefore, if there is indeed a goodwill of today's ruling majority to avoid any opposition or possible doubt that the decision on the election of the head director will be in the function of placing HRT in the function of party television, then there is no reason why we should not also make this decision to such a qualified majority as the practice in the Member States of the European Union where it is not only the excessive majority, but in our case, the two-thirds majority. If the past law has been passed as it is said by consensus, I see no reason why if there is a good will to avoid doubts about party television or the desire to turn into a party medium to bring it in now. So, the selection of the principal editor-in-chief by the will of the ruling majority in the Croatian Parliament is indeed a step back from what we have so far not claiming that what has been good so far. On the contrary, we believe that mistakes must be corrected, but we must correct mistakes by making even greater mistakes is not the mark of a reasonable but unreasonable man. Therefore, let us not slave to the situation that just because we have a sufficient number of hands now the ruling majority after the next election when that ratio is or does not change again, then you criticize yourself for what you now stand for. I repeat on behalf of the club already said Mr. Ivan Drmic, the HDSSB Club opposes this bill for the most part for these two reasons, and this is the way to decide who will be the principal because we do not respect the practice and parliamentary practice of others. Here I am ending, other members of the European Union, and it is concerned that, indeed, as my colleague Drmic said then, nothing will change except that instead of the HDZ membership card, the SDP or HNS or other members of the ruling coalition will be sufficient. [[Intruder Light: Time!]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9838	At the presentation of the representatives of the HDSSB club, we have reported 4 corrections of incorrect allegations and 2+2. So, fellow Drmic Two and fellow Buric Two. Let's get this straight. He is the first respected representative, Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9839	Dear Vice-President, a correction to the inaccurate allegations of counterpart Drmic, said a billion-and-a-half kuna is being spent on Croatian broadcasting. To avoid being a viewer and advocacy, the program spends less than 300 million 285 million kuna. That is, we should also discuss the rationalisation of Croatian broadcasting. So everything else isn't about the program. The second thing that is most important is that Croatia's broadcasting is technologically backward. It is the weakest in Croatia and the region because money is spent in vain. While some are digging through garbage cans to pay 80 kuna to Croatian broadcasters. Others act on the same Croatian radio television as drunk billionaires.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9840	Thank you very much. The next correction of the incorrect quote and the esteemed representative Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9841	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's a colleague Drmic exactly said you don't have to listen to everything coming from Brussels. But he incorrectly cited the position of HDZ. On behalf of the club, I said that it is not so important that the government does not hear, does not listen to what the Commission or the European Parliament is objecting to but does not listen to Croatian citizens and that is actually our position. But when the Government is invited to the European Commission, then it must quote exactly what it says and what these remarks are. Here's our position. And the fact that this assembly either from Brussels or from the plane shows that actually this bill on HRT is a proposal for party television. That's what our attitude really is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9842	Thank you, Your Honor. The next correction of the incorrect allegations is the esteemed representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9843	Dear Mr. Buric, you have worked hard to respond to my intrusion to justify going in your own opinion to Zenica and condemn going to Brussels for your opinion. And I'm saying there's a sign of equality here, that you go to your opinion anywhere is just as bad. And I don't understand how a good, responsible and educated representative doesn't sort of distinguish the work we want and we need to meet certain criteria and how you identify it by leaving for your own opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9844	First, I ask the MPs not to engage because it is not intended for the Rules of Procedure, and the honourable representative Dinko Buric reports a breach of the Rules of Procedure but we do not know what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9845	I did, Mr. Vice President. So, at the very least, Article 214 was injured because an esteemed colleague of Hrelja spoke out of the question and corrected an incorrect quote that I did not say at all. Everything I said was true. We are proud to go to the Croatian general every two weeks if we are released to prison and his opinion of the situation in the Republic of Croatia. That's what we're proud of. He created this Croatian state unlike many who today make up the ruling majority and didn't want the same state, unlike you from the ruling majority who are going to get your opinions to foreign embassies and foreign intelligence centres.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9846	Unfortunately for you, Mr. Buric, it is not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, because neither you nor your colleague Hrelja have hurt the Rules of Procedure, but you have used the Rules of Procedure to express your opinion, and you have reported something else. ... Thank you very much. [[I can't hear you.]] We are going to the next correction of the incorrect quote and the esteemed representative Josip Kregar. Please, colleagues, respect your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9847	The correction of an incorrect quote does not refer to differences in attitudes. I respect your views although mine are quite the opposite, but I think it is the impression that deciding on European bodies is the same as deciding on Croatia. Europe is not one country. It is made up of many countries and then you have to use national legislation as evidence and fact when calling for the majority. But it remains a firm matter that in the Assembly laws are passed by most, which means by half the votes present in the assembly if there is a quorum. There is a qualified majority that is proposed here, and that is the majority of all MPs of the Parliament. I think that's a good solution. It is not an appeal to consensus and full consent, because this debate also shows it will not be possible to achieve this.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9848	Thank you very much. The next club is the club of national minorities in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Nedzad Hodzic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9849	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The National Minority Representatives' Club will support this draft law amending and supplementing the HRT Act, believing that the Proposer has sincerely approached these changes by wanting to create a legal framework that will allow HRT to overcome a situation that is not good today and which must be changed as soon as possible for the better. HRT is an important public institution of Croatian society. As the most visible and listening media house directly affects the creation of public opinion in our society. Under Croatian Radio and Croatian TV programmes are also monitored in countries where Croatian language is understood. It is therefore a medium that information about Croatian society goes beyond the borders of our country. And that is why we believe that the selection of the principal director who, according to this proposal, is elected in the Croatian Parliament is a good legal solution. This finally brings responsibility for the work of the head director of HRT and through its truth great powers to create a common Croatian television policy practically includes shoulders and responsibility for complete software content that will be imitated in Croatian Radio and Croatian TV programmes. Of course, the choice and decision but also the responsibility for the situation on HRT according to this law takes the majority of all MPs in the Croatian Parliament, which we believe is not controversial. Finally, we choose both the prime minister and the government who assumes responsibility for leading the country as a whole. At this point, it could be said that a law like this today goes hand in hand to the ruling coalition, but today it's the Kukuriku coalition, and tomorrow it might be another political option. Therefore, such a law that would not change in the future and should be kept falling into a future political option that will lead to the taking over of responsibility for the management of society to take responsibility for the conduct of HRT policies, as it also expresses in the good part certain strategic and national interests that every society has and also the Croatian state. Our members of the national minorities will, of course, be interested in how this HRT will monitor our activities in Croatian society in the future. That hasn't been bad so far, but we think there's room to improve some things. Finally, we want to remind ourselves that we are ahead of the EU's entry and that all the events in our society will be about not only EU members where we must meet certain criteria but also will be followed by countries from the region that we should serve as an example on their way to European integration. Therefore, the work on HRT will also be subject to the same criteria, and we, such a bill, practically Parliamentarians take full responsibility for the future work of HRT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9850	Thank you, Your Honor. We have a registered 1 correction of the incorrect quote on your presentation and it is a respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9851	Your Honor, Vice President. I would only make one quote wrong, and that is Mr. MP said that Croatian television is the most watched. But that's not true, it should be fair to the other TVs. She's not. It is another thing that Croatian television is used to manipulate and ephemeral actually embarrassingly ephemeral awards are announced with the logo of its television for a week or more. And with these companies that assigned HRT, you wouldn't want to have to deal with them, and you wouldn't want to lean on them. With only here to point out that there are a lot of great journalists on HRT, great editors, but they are not on screen, they are not allowed to work. Where's Latin? Where's Spritz? Where's Maya North? Where are the other young journalists who are not allowed to castrate their own opinion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9852	Thank you, Your Honor. With this latest debate of the Club of National Minorities in the Croatian Parliament, we have exhausted the list of clubs reported for discussion on this subject. We're moving on to a ten-minute hearing. The first to discuss the application is the respected representative Nenad Stazic, vice president of the Croatian Parliament. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9853	Thank you. What are the reasons for bringing these amendments to the law? Is that the whim of the dodgy people at the Ministry of Culture, and then they have nothing better to do and then they're writing amendments to the HRT Act? Is it the desire to politically obey HRT, determine the Government, or is it the urge to finally settle inadmissible destruction on HRT created by the application of the existing law? And that's what everyone in this assembly notices, and there's no one who would say, look what you're going to change the law when there's everything on HRT. No one's said that by now. The central question here is the policy ratio and the HRT, so let's see what this relationship has been like throughout history. During the communist era of a party system, of course, HRT was subjected to the only party. At that time, HRT will remind me of the creation of "Gruntovs", "Velo and little misto", "Where Wild Pigs Go", "In Registration" works that he never created again until today. Who were the leaders? Jasmina Nikic, Vesna Spinčić, Helga Vlahović, Ksenija Urličić, Gordana Bonetti. You don't know if they were more beautiful or more educated, whether they had a better diction or if they spoke foreign languages better. Yeah, that was HRT under one party's control. Ninety years. Democracy, multi-party. Is that democracy coming to HRT? No, I don't. President Tudjman, Vrdoljak then speaks publicly to all of you at HDZ is the right person to win power over public television. That's what you said and you made it happen. They were driven from HRT by the most creative people, the most creative. The people brought in from the road with a clear task that television must be HDZ. She was. In 2000, a new shift of power. HRT becomes an election prey. Ivica Racan, Galića is elected here we chose him on the government's proposal most in the Parliament, because HRT was then an election prey. But Ivica Racan and her government say no, we'll change that now. Let's go create public television and change the law. As Deputy Prime Minister, counterpart Zeljka Antunovic wrote the first law from which public television was created. The programme council was then not elected by the parliament and was not influenced by political parties. No, the associations themselves elected representatives to this program council. And what happened in that programme council, they set up a political party there and said they were going to the elections. In that council not elected here in Parliament, no, they were not involved but those whom no one had chosen, they went to establish a political party. Was that good, it wasn't, so then Minister Vujic wrote another law. The foundation of this law was also the basis for the adoption of this last law. And I said that this last law is good and I repeat it and now, I am not inconsistencies, Minister Mesic, I publicly commended you for how this law was passed and for the quality of that law, and that law was consensually passed here. That was the way it was, and no one happier than me. I don't believe either of you, but neither of the ministers that this law has given results, no one happier. We shouldn't change it. These changes have been imposed by television itself, since the events that are happening there, they have been extorted. Well, if that old law could have existed, that he gave good results, so who would've gone crazy and changed it for what. No, there was no political tutorship about that last law, no. The HDZ there did not set anyone up, nor did the SDP because the law was complex so that no party and no political option could achieve the majority. But what happened? It happened that some other centres of power outside politics had mastered the HRT, that in the Programme Council, personal interests had begun to be traded. Well, look, we've elected these people here in the Parliament to the Program Council, we haven't sent them there to trade with anyone or between themselves. Both HDZ and SDP have sent people to the Programme Council with one direction, you work responsibly, on your own conscience and make sure that this house develops as a public institution, as a public television with good and quality programs. That's what we told them, at least the SDP, I'm convinced of HDZ. I'm convinced. What did they do? They pick the editors-in-chiefs who don't have the support of creative staff. That's what they dare to do. Of course, when they did, they started to fall apart. Well, not everyone in that council is dishonest, so Sanja Ivić came forward the other day, the other day and said I can't be in such a body, so I have cheek, I have some dignity. Well, that's not why you suggested I do it. I'm not going to do it. And the council fell apart. And now that the council has fallen apart what has been done to us? To raise your hands, to leave them to those who stayed there and say, "What can we do now?" Our intentions as policies were good, we politicians made a good law, and listen now, and the best law if they go to implement it bad people won't give good results. Because to do that, I'm not up for it. I'm not happy that we have to go this way, I'm not the happiest because this is... HRT has to admit that, but it doesn't even make sense to hide it, so it's obvious from the bill. [[You don't understand.]] But what do you do? To leave those who have been given confidence in good faith, who have actually made fun of this trust, to continue to devastate the public institution of that importance, and the value and ultimately the money they collect from the tax. Well, the government would be irresponsible if you did. We'd all be irresponsible here if we walked away. Now, how to achieve representativeness. It's been tried in various ways. In the Programme Council, my colleague Milas will be my witness and he's also proof of it, he was in the Program Council for a time, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. He was an independent, political independent person, today he is a HDZ representative in parliament. So much for the independence of the people who were in the Program Council. There are absolutely no independents, that's quite clear. And are we going to strive now to achieve transparency, I'm sorry, I didn't mean here to say that my colleague, Miles, wasn't good or quality, and he was conscious of his job, no. If that's what anyone thought, then it's a complete lie, he was a high-quality councilman. But it can't be said that he wasn't politically tied, that he wasn't a political man, so that he wouldn't be a HDZ representative in parliament today. How to achieve representativeness? People dear so let's not lie, Parliament is not just a legislative body and Parliament is not just a body chosen by the government, so Parliament is the most representative body of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So who else, if not Parliament, who else, who else has a stronger mandate, who else has a stronger right, has a greater right to place people in public institutions than the Parliament. We had convinced myself all the good intentions of passing the last law and I think with regret we must realize that this experiment, unfortunately, has failed us greatly. But now we have a responsibility not to allow further devastation, now we have the responsibility of the chosen, not only most but also minorities to fix this situation, to prevent further devastation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9854	Thank you too, dear fellow Stazic. We have two corrections of an incorrect quote and three replicas reported. Let's get this straight. First the corrections of an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Josip Djakic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9855	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Minister. So here I am correcting the incorrect quote of fellow Stazic, where he claimed that the Program Council had fallen apart. That's incorrect. The programme council has a majority of 6 members of 11.5 resigned for various reasons. Ante Tomic, for personal reasons or perhaps conflict of interest, was appointed president of the Agricultural Chamber and was proposed there and therefore resigned. Kujundzic Milan has resigned because of his involvement in the political struggle, Victoria Car, and I don't know why she resigned. It was only necessary to supplement this Programme Council as it could, together with the Supervisory Board, decide on a change or appointment, tendering for the new Director. It didn't fall apart, it just needs to be complemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9856	Thank you very much. The next correction of the incorrect quote and the esteemed representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9857	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here, Mr. Stazic, I'd just like to say that I disagree and correct your inaccuracies. First of all, I agree that this body of Parliament is the most body in the state of Croatia, but look, it is not good that you said that this should precisely be brought by this body that is today... Please, please! [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let me just have a minute. But today this body is colored by the corn coalition, tomorrow it will be the HDZ coalition with someone else. Therefore, it is not good for the Parliament to do so because this Parliament will again make a political decision, Mr. Stazic. The political decision will be made which I disagree with you and this body should not be taken. So you're wrong when you say that because people are going to be put in front of politics again, which they shouldn't because it's state television, it's not commercial television. Thus, it is not good for humans to make decisions in this way and in that way. I just wanted to tell you that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9858	You really did not correct your colleague Lucić, but you presented your position as either in the replica or in the debate. So you weren't really correcting anything. And secondly, the Parliament is not colored with anything but the Parliament has won the structure as the citizens have decided. ... Don't be afraid and painted here, there are representatives of the citizens in a democratically elected process. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. ... This is how I'd end this debate. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You made two mistakes. You're arguing beyond the Statute and beyond that I gave you my word. Since I believe this is enough warning I will not be used by the Rules of Procedure. Respect the Rules of Procedure and respect the other colleagues in the Parliament. Thank you very much. Let's go to the replicas. Replica was first reported by respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9859	Well, I'm glad my colleague Stazic remembered the programme of then-Television Zagreb or the current Croatian television mentioning Croatian series, so here I would ask him what Smoj's Poster of Bombery from the Little Mist or the Maester of the Great Mist would say about this bill, Mr. Stazic? I'm glad you remembered the late Prime Minister Ivica Racan whose government wanted to turn state television into public television. However, this bill converts the public television not to state but exclusively to party television. And if that were proposed in the last term by this party in which HDZ sits believe that you would not stay in this assembly but rather as a representative of the SDP or the current coalition leave this assembly, hold that press conference in the Croatian Parliament and say HDZ turns HRT into HDZ television. That's what SDP's doing now. I'd rather talk about a bad HRT program, about what HRT should be. And first of all, a consensus should be reached in this House. And if the Croatian Parliament is to appoint a director then it should be a two-thirds decision, not a simple majority decision because you must surely understand that in two years, one year or four years, you will arlaucate on your own bill because you will no longer be able to be in the Dnevnik or in any show such as the "Open" type. Who's going to call you? You'll be an opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9860	Thank you very much. And the answer to the line, the esteemed representative of Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9861	First, you either didn't listen to what I was saying or you had trouble understanding what was said. Secondly, we will never arlaucate that we leave to you to work in the Parliament. Third, I made it clear that Prime Minister Racan and Racan's government turned the concept of state television into the concept of public television. I have made it clear that I am not happy that we must pass such a law, and I would be happier than this Government and myself personally if the existing law for which I have praised Minister Mesic and his Government were working. But the fact is that it doesn't work, the fact is that it's being misapplyed, the fact is that the council there has fallen apart, the fact is that the program is catastrophic and the fact is that as responsible people, we have to change it. Will you use it politically to object to how we want to put our paws on HRT is your business. It is a matter of you and your chosen ones and those who will or will not believe. We know our responsibility and this responsibility, this task will be fulfilled consistently to the end in the best interest of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9862	Thank you very much. And the next replica, respected representative Branko Vuksic, at the presentation of his colleagues, Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9863	Dear colleague Stazić, I fully agree with most of your debate. I agree with the finding that this law has been extorted. And that's what we said at first. I've already said it several times, that's what Madam Minister said at the beginning, which is why the law will be passed. However, there are many dishonestys of your fellow Members who do not speak so. Who say that this fundamental law is to change something fundamentally. If something is fundamentally changing, and you know it very well, then it's changing. The choice of editor-in-chief. Responsibility is not the reason for the suspension of freedom on HRT, press freedom. It certainly isn't. And I agree with you in the '90s, big series was recorded, before the '90s, big series – Mejashi, Mali and Velo misto, beggars and sons. For what? Then there was Zagreb TV, not Croatian television, not because, one of the reasons was absolutely safe because it was not allowed to breathe on HRT all the money was given into the entertainment and drama program Kruha and games and were probably both more potent and writers and directors. And the third finding that the Programme Council has fallen apart and the Programme Council, especially this rest, is the source of many evils. That's not to be patched up, that's to be changed. When I was talking about the changes to be made and that were to be made in February or March of the month, and now I already have a finished situation on HRT I was talking about the leadership of the house not as someone said politically how Mr. Stazic likes to qualify everything. I didn't mean everything, if you're literally, just the ones who run this house bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9864	Thank you very much. And a response to the replica of Vice President Nenad Stazic's esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9865	Dear colleague, you're replicating me and telling me that you agree with me but you don't believe in the honesty of my colleagues. So why don't you replicate them and not me? That's the first thing, if you doubt their honesty. I also mentioned these wonderful series which, production of this rich, quality that we have. As one piece of evidence I'd rather not use, and that's not something I'd advocate, but that's proof that even in one rigid, one-party system production of such television can be excellent. So, that doesn't matter, there's no need for party control and the quality of the program. It's not good, so of course it wouldn't be good if any party, and my party, your HDZ had full control over public television. So who can advocate it smart and normal. And neither is the purpose of these amendments to the law to achieve it. That's not the point, because if it was, they wouldn't be doing it in 2002, creating public television, so it's not our goal. We could have left that system in 2000. So connecting control, political control and quality is not particularly justified, evidence of this is the radio-television of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9866	Thank you very much. And the third replica is the replica of the respected representative Dinko Buric. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9867	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Stazic, you said at one point how important it is to change the existing situation and I agree with you that, and we have found that in all the discussions so far, there are reasons to change many things. However, it is not a problem with this bill whether something needs to be changed for the better or not. The problem is, and from all the debates, it is seen, the way of choice and who, and most of all, chooses the principal director, who then has the authority to choose the editor-in-chief. This is a fundamental problem of not accepting or opposing such a bill. Because it can't simply be taken away from the impression, that if the ruling majority has the right to choose a key person, and more importantly, let's not forget that this same ruling majority then the principal, if not satisfied with how they will represent the interests of the ruling majority on that public television. To equalize such a procedure and to simply resolve the procedure. Therefore, these are existing solutions that were, should not have been changed because they were brought by consensus, and this obviously will not be, but should have changed what was not right, and that is what you said yourself was the work of the Programme Council. And some competent people, but really professional people choose the editor-in-chief, not one person. Although you do not like the fact that in a year the ruling coalition will be represented or presented to the public, you will simply resolve the principal. That's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9868	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Time and response to the replica, honourable Vice President of the Parliament, fellow Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9869	Dear fellow Buric I fully understand your fear and she is justified, and I would have if I were an opposition representative of the same concern. And I say it's not good, it's not good if one party can, one party can subdue the editorial structure of public television. I'll tell you one more thing, and when she had that control, she couldn't necessarily keep power. The HDZ had full control of public television until 2000, lost the election. Whether the government behaves responsibly or not under this law, that's what we'll see. What we know so far is that the current bodies selected under the applicable law were extremely irresponsible, extremely irresponsible. You know if the MPs were in that Programme Council, they wouldn't do that, would they, why? So they answer to one another, and if no one else, then at least to their party they will answer. These don't answer to anyone. This, this is a test and a government test, a parliamentary majority test. Whether he chooses, he will behave responsibly, whether he will choose the best ones, and whether he will give up managing that HRT and accomplishing some of his political interests there. If she tries it, and what do you think the public won't recognize, what do you think it's going to do for the government, so how can it go in favor of who it goes in favor of, and when it went in favor. So whoever tries it, first he exposes himself, second he shames himself, third he turns the whole public against himself. The reasons are clearly stated for amending this law and do not doubt their honesty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9870	Thank you very much. We are going to the next debate for 10 minutes and respected representative Boris Blažekovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9871	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Public broadcasting everywhere is an unusually important institution for the state and society as a whole. For a country such as Croatia which is completely devastated, and in my opinion at the beginning of the third transition, organized public media such as Croatia's broadcasting is simply dried up. Croatia's media scene systematically destroyed from the 1990s to today. One of the most important segments of society has been left incompetent to decide their fate, starting with clear party directives, and later with an imminent devastation due to these very party directives. It is left with tycoon privatisations that have again led, with politically unreasonable involvement, to a situation where we have today's media scene. More memories of the cult and journalistic inaccessible, to recall at that time more Radio 101, Start, Today something cult Feral Tribune. Where's Vesnik? Yesterday they say the last number came out another media. We remember all the top journalists who were simply decimated in the early 1990s. Where journalists who had recently lighted up in the darkness of numerous non-supervised media political projects. Today, with nostalgia, we look back at some of the greats of Croatian journalism, and they did not die, but they are not in positions, in the media that deserve everything. Politicalisation in the first row, but also commercialisation of the media, has taken its toll by crushing a number of journalistic sizes and potential talents, which may be an even bigger mistake. In recent times, the state's total concern for the media has led to today's situation when an interested citizen has to read two national daily lists, at least one local, then hear at least one radio station and read two portals to get to the right, or full, true information or description of the event. And then each reader, viewer, and listener slaps first two pages or two consecutive animated or video or audio ads, and then this same interested reader, viewer, listener can start looking for the truth or information. Over the past years, the government has been dealing with the media especially those who have not been in its service or who have not served as an enemy activity who have somehow managed to get past all of them into society and, in fact, it has been best to remove them and yet that there is no such wicked international public who is a miraculous being God and ask why and for whose interests it protects. With this carelessness and the development of an unfreely dependent society, the government has left the media and the media scene only to devast itself through a complete commercialisation that is not at all bad, even more necessary. If there were a balance of public, quality, arranged and arranged media space. It is entirely wrong that freedom from the media means total concern for the state and the authorities for the development of the media space. And this seems to have happened to the Croatian media scene because of incompetence, non-compliance, because of the desire for full political control of public but private media, Croatia is today practically without any truly independent and political and social media as a whole. Even until the other day, truly honest portals kneeled under the pressure of total commercialization, thus introducing self-censorship in the face of generous compensation for increasingly numerous commercials. As I said, commercialising the media doesn't have to be and it's not a problem if there's a balance of quality and competence in information, and if there's a possibility of verifying the truth, there's a tendencyal and false information in social public expression to sanction. I don't think of court rulings, although we should in no way belittled and disregard the speedy and high-quality judgments for incorrect information that can upset the public and make them as quick and efficient as possible. The state and the government have an obligation to take care of media space and the development of media culture, as well as journalistic activities as they must worry about the development of political parties, the development of freedom, democracy, as they must worry about the development of society as a whole. It's a business of society and government, state and government. It is a complex and serious job that requires a competent and really interested authority that is ready and able to use all the resources of the community. Croatia needs a media strategy. Why it hasn't been done to this day, it's really completely unclear to me. So I can go back to today's topic. Thanks to the full lack of government care over the past eight years, HINA is on its knees, and HRT is choking on internal human-clanovic wars and an incredible amount of attempt by some quasi of strong influence on the HRT programme of various PR agencies, PR experts, free shooters, producers, musical lobbies, production lobbies, commercial lobbies and other lobbys. Personally, I have the impression that the program on HRT is taking place exclusively thanks to the incredibly solid and deep foundations of the former TV Zagreb so that thanks to this tradition, the daily life of a house is taking place which in reality is daily devasting in a technical, creative, working and financial perspective. To see that something is wrong on HRT, especially on HTV, is not a necessary depth analysis, although I must admit that the depth analysis on HTV is welcome. Namely, all interested public and half-interested Croatian citizens see that HRT is simply not good. It is enough to monitor the program itself, its quality and its ratings, to hear the mourners of HRT employees, to peek into technical equipment, to look at financial reports, to read... articles. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As I said in the introduction, I believe that for a country like Croatia that is devastated in all areas, and in my opinion, at the beginning of the third transition, organised public media such as HRT is dry, necessary. And that's why it's high time for HRT's work to be arranged immediately. Every move in that direction is worth the praise and it's urgent. If this authority wants to enter structural reforms, and it is obvious that it wants what it shows to these amendments and additions to the Law of the HRT requires legal frameworks for the functioning of such a significant public institution. As Minister Zlatar said in the introduction, it is about amendments and additions to laws that regulate only one segment of HRT work, it is about changes to the law in order to operate. I'm convinced it's like this, i.e. This proposal for amending and supplementing the law allows for the establishment of a functioning management of this significant house. A large amount of authority shall be placed in the hands of the Director-General, who shall be fully responsible for the successful functioning of the HRT shared with us, parliamentary representatives. Croatian broadcasting is a public and final responsibility for functioning, and institutions according to my conviction and should be on democratically elected parliamentary representatives. It is up to us to provide a framework for functioning, which is the selection of the most important management and control bodies, and it is up to the Director to organise the technical, programming, editorial and creative work of the institution. The thus established HRT needs to be fully independent, independent and on top of the highest journalistic and professional and competent basis without any discrimination of the area or professional ethics to show the programme of importance for the whole society and informative, educational, cultural, entertainment and sports programme. Clear and simple. These amendments set out a legal framework that enables the efficient management of HRT. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9872	Thank you very much, dear colleague Blazekovic. This exposure of yours encourages the entire HDSSB club to replicate. First respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9873	We debated on behalf of the club, now we debate as representatives, MPs who also have the mandate of the people who chose them. Dear colleague, I would agree with you really if the situation were on HTV, I wouldn't call it a disaster, but it's extremely bad both financially and programmically. However, it is particularly dangerous when, for example, Vice-President of the Parliament says he is in opposition that he would not vote for such a law and that he would be justified in fear that he is in opposition to what the elected director of the HRT can do in this way. He obviously does not know that the beggars and sons have been in the bunker for a long time, regardless of what he says about bread and games to the Croatian people. So they were made during the Croatian Spring, that certain shows or episodes of where the wild pigs go or the midnight little mouse was also in the bunker. So what this law suggests is that from a public television, one needs first of all to see how to choose the Programme Council. The road may be a two-thirds majority in the Croatian Parliament but not this ordinary qualified majority. And it should be prevented this time which from the public television that is so founded in 2000 now after 12 years we get back not state television, but back to that time of darkness and we get party television. I believe and I am quite sure that instead of cycling tours around Croatia Zagora, the Youth Forum will soon have party conventions. Something like that time of night, when it was 10. The Congress of the Union of Communists of Yugoslavia. That's what I was listening to and my stomach was sore from my friend Tito's speech 'cause it was 10 all day. The Union of Communists Congress, that's probably how it's gonna be. the SDP's main committee. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9874	Time. Now here's a colleague of Vinkovic's. First, I didn't say what you were putting in my mouth if I said, so I didn't say I wouldn't vote for this law. Ask your colleague Buric, I said I understood his fears. Listen carefully. Secondly, I see it took you some time to figure out how you're going to replicate it for me. And thirdly, I find this statement of yours extremely incorrect because you're replicating me at the moment I'm running a session and I can't answer your line. But I leave all that to your conscience and conscience to those who chose you. We're going to another replica of my colleague Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9875	Thank you. I agree with you that the main goal, so I think all the representatives of these proposals are aware, is that the main goal is to regulate the state of HTV which is simply alarming, intolerable, catastrophic. That's what Vice President Stazic was talking about earlier. And it really might be time to understand that the law that unresponse reality is the worst law. So the totalitarian systems are known. You don't need to be told about it, you all know it, whose constitutions guarantee great democratic freedoms, and practice was something else entirely. So, unfortunately, neither did the previous HRT Act that brought it here by consensus in practice come about in the way that the MPs expected, but the crisis was reproduced for these and those reasons that were cited there. The normal thing is that they're MPs, i.e. Professional politicians are very interested in the fate of the public media because of the importance he normally has in practice, but it's really time to look in the mirror and say, it's never repeated time from the time of the first phase of HDZ rule when it jumped and from the bushes caught journalists etc. So I just think that the intentions of everyone are clear, and that's to change an existing state. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9876	I owe my colleague Blazekovic an apology. I'm sorry, colleague Blažekovic. I didn't give you the opportunity to respond to the replica even though you picked up the tile. I apologize to you and the whole House, I just didn't realize. I thought you wanted to replicate a replica, but if you want to use that right of yours, I'm obliged to give it to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9877	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I just wanted to say that I can't replicate something that goes to you that's addressed to you. That's one way I wanted to respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9878	Thank you very much. The next replica, the esteemed representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9879	Well, here you are, counselor, saying that Croatia today is without any completely independent media. I agree. But Croatia has always been without an entirely independent medium. It was 10 years ago and 20 years ago and so it is today. You also mentioned the Programme Council, and that's where you'd agree. Croatia is not Sweden and the way this idea of this Programme Council being formed was not realistically implemented in Croatian frameworks. The way of choosing this Programme Council and its work was one mussel that eventually proved inedible for Croatian society and for HTV. Yes, Croatia must also have every institution of someone concrete who runs it and who decides in that institution, not some groups that will then informally implement some decisions far beyond their powers. And that's what happened to that Programme Council the way it was. One of the examples that I would now say that has not been mentioned is an example of the series of Heroi Vukovar's 3rd segments. This is the most successful Croatian documentary series recorded in the independent Croatian state, which is precisely because of this and such Programme Council, part 3 of that series HTV did not want to take over and broadcast in any way in the HTV programme. It is precisely because of these interests of any informal groups that have been formed through this Programme Council. And I would just like to take a brief look at something previously said around the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Parliament has never been colored either HDZ or will be colored SDP-ovski as it has not been painted Hungarian. The Croatian Parliament is the Croatian Parliament and above the Croatian Parliament are always Croats.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9880	The replica will be answered by respected representative Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9881	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd just like to point out that in one word, I didn't mention the HRT Program Council. and in principle I did mention everything that is now being chosen, and with deep conviction that responsibility for how to choose what it looks like is at the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9882	And the last replica, the esteemed representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9883	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So let's not fool ourselves, it's not the basic goal of this bill to regulate the situation on HRT, but to put HRT under control of the ruling Kukuriku coalition. Because the proposals put forward in this form of the HRT bill cannot lead to any other thinking than that the role of the main director elected by the party or the ruling coalition is not to improve the programme but to set up a framework so-called a lawful opinion that is limited within the principle of state, in this case party religion. And when it was said here, I mean in Mr. Jurjevic's replica, then you said it didn't happen again for a while. Yeah, it's okay, but I have to say here it didn't happen again, and because of the spoken word, it's been going on many years of slavery, and these are times of communism and the Communist party, which you're both a world-renowned and spiritual and political follower.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9884	Col. Dinko Buric, you can stand up with a replica at the basic exhibition of colleagues Boris Blažeković. You know that you have no business opportunity to respond to a replica of Marin Jurjevic from 10 minutes ago because he has no option, there is no business opportunity to reply to that replica. Let us agree to stick to the Rules of Procedure, let us agree to be fair, to be parliamentary and to express our views within the Rules of Procedure, can be replicated, may be opposed, but let us not have to warn ourselves constantly and invite each other to do our best here on purpose, fair and fair as our Rules of Procedure prescribes. Thank you in advance for this understanding... Thank you for understanding. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yeah, yeah, I gave you advice. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You're constantly breaking the Rules of Procedure. If you disagree with me, you have a Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure. And now I'm going to give my esteemed colleague Boris Blazekovic the opportunity to respond to this replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9885	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank God these days are gone, and thank God there will never be any more. I don't know why certain colleagues like to live in the past, to call on the past, believing that they might be able to come back some old times. I can't. We live in completely different times, even in the past year they've changed terribly, not to speak three or five, let alone what colleagues are talking about, and thank God those times are not coming back and they won't. What I would like to say is that I am convinced that this government and this Kukuriku coalition not only has a good intention of amending this law, amending this law, but has a good intention in the development of this society. We here, at least all those I know and those I know better or less, none of us are here to make this country worse. We are deeply convinced here that root changes are necessary and we are convinced that these changes we offer are good for this country and for this society, for every citizen and citizen of this country. And that is how we approach this law, the amendment of this law with goodwill, and with the belief that this amendment of the law will help this society to be much better in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9886	Thank you very much. We are now continuing an individual debate, so I invite my esteemed colleague Shim Luchin to speak to us, to us and to the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9887	Thank you very much, Vice President. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I have to admit that I'm always looking forward to one fact when we're discussing HTV, whether it's about the report, whether it's about new initiatives, that it's about it, so the topic, so the HRT, it's about that kind of attention. I would like to believe that this aroused attention and interest, now I will only stick to the Assembly, fellow MPs and colleagues, actually means the desire to get as good and quality a law as possible, that is, to have as much public television as anyone here has said, so one of the most significant public goods, or as I like to say public service to the citizens of this country. However, I'm a little sad and sad to see that a part of my colleagues actually concentrates on only one part of the story, we're actually dealing with ourselves again in a certain way because we're only interested in who's going to be invited to "Open" and what's the information program. I would also like to talk about some other topics, not just to talk about ourselves, but to start talking a little bit and what about the cultural programme, which is with the educational programme, which is with the documentary programme, etc. But unfortunately, we can't look any further, either. I'm not going to cry for worse pasts or better times on HTV because I don't care about the past, I'm interested in the future. So I belong to that group of MPs and people who think that there is something urgent to be done on HRT, and I think this law is one good way to do what needs to be done because we all agreed that the situation on television is bad. More or less, not only did we agree but here's not enough time to, say, present the correspondence I've received in the last three months. It doesn't just come down to the mares and the de facto disintegrated council, but you have all kinds of letters. Let's just say you have a request from the chairman of the Board of Supervisors to replace the Board, and then you have the resignation of two members of the Supervisory Board, and before that, two members of the Supervisory Board require that the chairman of the Supervisory Board be replaced. Then you have a board president who's asking to be president of the Supervisory Board, and now I could lower it. So only this correspondence that we have on the board shows that there is total powerlessness, not only in terms of governance but also in programs and finances, so everything, supervision of what is done. So we didn't open important topics here for me, but we're going to have to open them. What about the HRT restructuring program? I think that's one of the key questions. Someone was talking about it. I said that on the board that unfortunately we are the country that watched the European football championship now when it comes to the region in the worst technique. Until 7, 8 years ago, Croatian television was not only a pride of software but also of technical and technological equipment. Today, gentlemen of the past are the Austrians, the Slovenians, so we are both past Serbs. Now, if that trend continues, I wonder, you and myself, what happens to HRT in a year or two? Why am I saying all this? I'm saying this for a simple reason because I think we should if you want to take responsibility for ourselves because that's why people chose us and that's why we just say a lot. To choose the director of HRT, or to choose the supervisory board and to start clearing things up there. In that sense I even think that some deadlines under this law are by me this little stretch. Let's say I'd be in favor of going straight to the election, let's say, the acting director while this procedure is about the election of directors. Why wait eight days? Since the day of publication or 30, I don't know how much it says there, on the day of the publication of this law, we're going to make things real. Because it's alarming when you talk to union representatives, when you talk to professional journalists, you can't tell them that anyone's happy, and at the same time we know that different illegalities are happening, we follow and read in the media, I don't know the corruption on the big door, etc., etc. So, I think we should get to work. Now, what's the big deal? It's all good, I think that's what my colleague Beus said by the end of this year, we're going to be discussing the issue of HRT six more times. It is good that we are relatively at the beginning of our mandate and that all these words that have been spoken here today will already be easily verifiable in a year without saying in two years. Then we'll see who the commissioners are and where the commissioners are. Is the law good, isn't the law good? So we'd all be happy so if we had a media strategy, if we had one broader package of laws, etc., but we all know that this story can't be realized in two, three months. And the situation on TV is catastrophic. And so I think there's going to be an opportunity to even talk about a wider story about HRT. I believe, in fact, that this law has potential in the sense that it is a word of adjudication of management and software structures and supervision structures. But ultimately, we are always responsible for the situation. And I'm ready, I don't know if you're taking responsibility for what's going to happen on HRT in the coming years. And that's why I'm going to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9888	Thank you very much. The desire to rephrase to you is presented by representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9889	You said you were looking for the best solution, I don't know if you were in the hall this morning, but one of the possible solutions offered 2.5 months ago did not allow it to be placed on the agenda and discussed equally with this solution. So you're not looking for the best solution but you've found a solution and you're saying it's the best solution or the only solution. Secondly, on behalf of the club Vuksic did not only talk about the Information Program, he had just warned what you dramatic, cultural, children's and all other programs that lost quality. And you're right, we can't just talk about the information program, we can talk about the state of public television as a whole. If the desire to appoint a director is in a purely democratic way, why doesn't it say two-thirds of the MPs in the law? What's the problem? Because with this solution, some legal experts at constitutional law say it is on the verge of constitutionality. So if we obey Brussels by now and accept their suggestion, then we go two-thirds. Fourth, why are you so afraid of a binding opinion from a journalist when you appoint an editor? What are journalists contagious, incompetent? Why do you give one man the right to appoint an editor, not a binding opinion of a journalist? Why does that fear, the sight of all of you before that? And the bottom line is the following, HRT is today Public Television and therefore a fee is paid. By appointing the director in the Croatian Parliament, you turn it into state television. And we can accept that, but be consistent. Cancel the fee and finance it from the state budget and let it be called state television.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9890	Thank you very much. The replica will be answered by the esteemed representative of Shima Lucin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9891	I really don't know why your law isn't included in Parliament's agenda, I don't sit in Parliament's presidency, so I don't know, but we have time to discuss it. Now, listen here, knowing us that this law has two-thirds of the law, I wouldn't be surprised if someone were to get up and say we were to vote in unanimity. Now, you see, if we're going to rip the hair off, we can rip it all the way. However, I note what I have said I will not enter the controversy with you now because this is neither the place nor the time, but I believe that in a year we will discuss this subject and we will probably see who was the commissioner, who appointed whom and who actually abused this assembly and state policy on HRT.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9892	We're continuing an individual debate. It is up to the honourable representative Ivan Racan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9893	Thank you very much. I want to start by saying that I'm sorry that the past law was passed by consensus, and he didn't give the results. It is a failure and a pity because it is a good parliamentary practice around essential laws, but unfortunately it has not yielded a result. And we're in a situation where we're all aware of all kinds of problems on HRT, some that want to help solve these problems, and some that just catch points how to bring something down in this debate didn't turn out to be a little likable to the public. A bit of a funny meal is about trying to turn Croatian television into party television. So, in 2012, we are with a developed media market and any attempt to create some state television that will only be responsible to foreign authorities and who will push or favour its agenda to fail. Because it's a television that can't be watched, it's simply not going to be seen by the public. And so that kind of argument is, I repeat, a petty struggle for a little bit of a point. It is also said here that the commissioner and the commissioner model want to be appointed to manage the television. Okay, I accept the argument that the commissioner is a person who has been given special powers, that is an exact explanation, but every person whom the Republic of Croatia, whether the Government appoints, or appoints, or tasks for a particular duty is a person with special powers. It was the director, the head of a public firm's administration, who eventually had ministers, officials. And it's again the use of one word that has a historical context, that is trying to characterise us SDPs today by something that was 50, or 60 or more years ago. It is unnecessary, I don't see how this helps discuss Croatian broadcasting. The key thing in this law and the main point of reluctance is the authority of the principal director to appoint himself editor-in-chief. It is a solution that at the moment seems very acceptable to me, but why because of the situation in which Croatian broadcasting is located, which is where journalists are employed. Themes of media stories in other media due to human relations in their home where they are sanctioned, where they are warned, where they are not allowed to work. Journalists should be topics exclusively and only actually known to the public only by the contributions and stories they do, alone should not be stories at least not in this way. It seems to me that in Croatia the situation of excessive divisions is being broadcast. And it's very hard to talk to the employees because very quickly you realize that they talk to each other a little bit, they're not complex they can't solve their problem. The existing law has not shown the possibility of overcoming these divisions. I'm not going to go into crime stories, but I'm going to repeat something we said on the Media Committee, which is that we expect the DORH to act on the basis of publicly available information. The media cannot be full of stories about crime in Croatian broadcasting, and the institution that is in charge of this is not engaged. But this is a general situation in Croatia very often unsaid, so it is something that needs to be changed. The main director's choice itself is as was said envisaged in a very transparent process that takes place in front of the public. I am sorry that someone thinks that the ruling coalition is going to choose a principal director who is not in the interest of us, and that is to improve this situation on Croatian broadcasting. So everything happens in front of the public. A new director or director will answer to the public as well as to us here. So we bear responsibility not for the law but also for what goes on, and we accept that responsibility. And lastly, I wouldn't much about segments of television, radio, because it would be one technical debate, but I want to say that I'm a little sad that here in front of the Assembly hall are located cameras of three leading national televisions in Croatia, so I'll just say that one television is working with modern cards, the other with DV tapes, and that Croatian television is working in a slightly archaic BETA system that is really ancient. This refers to an incredible technological lagging that all employees of the Croatian Radio and Television face. Journalists often say that they do most of their work, not with their work, but with the technical problems they have in their work. We're all responsible for this here. The law also does not deal with the relationship, market relationship and competitiveness of public television with other concessionaries in the Republic of Croatia. But we cannot expect that Croatian broadcasting will be able to develop quality people, retain quality people who will not have a tool in which they will be able to work. That way a quality program can't work. But it's just a technical assumption. I don't want to go any further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9894	Thank you, Your Honor, Racan. We have reported, reported 2 corrections of the incorrect quote and 2 replicas on your display. We're going with the corrections of an incorrect quote and the esteemed representative of Davor Ivo Stier, please say so.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9895	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You told your colleague Racan that the main correct challenge in this debate was that the director-in-chief could choose editors, i.e. It's very true that it's a point of reluctance, but it's not the main one. The main point of the dispute is that the majority of parliament will be able to voluntarily appoint such a principal, then he after the editors and in this is the problem of political control over the entire political control process on HRT. It is precisely because of such proposals many benign, for example, that the majority of the Parliament were once able to choose members of the Supervisory Board. The SDP members said it would then be the twilight of democracy, to enter media freedoms, etc. You didn't object to them at the time, but you agreed to it. Moreover, the HDZ government has followed exactly such proposals. So what we're discussing today is that we want public service, not political control over HRT, that's the main point of the dispute in this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9896	Thank you very much. The second correction of the incorrect allegations has a respected representative Ivanka Roksandić. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9897	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, fellow Racan, you have said one sentence that has troubled me and that is not true. You said this debate today was a fight for some small points. He is not a colleague of Racan, this is a struggle for HRT independence and, above all, against political influence on the selection of HRT director's administration because it cannot be thought of as HRT belongs to either the government or the party. Governments change, parties come, others to power and public television can't be election prey because it's not good for that television to change its leadership, its concepts every time after elections, and we're doing it today. These were the words of your club that discussed in 2010 this law that we are changing today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9898	We have reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9899	Infringement of Rule 209 of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative corrected something I did not say. I said that some discussions tend to make small points, not that the overall debate in this House is not trying to solve problems on HRT, or discuss this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9900	Thank you, Your Honor, but I haven't found any damage to the Rules of Procedure in this, so let's get on with the replicas. Replica was first reported by respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, my dear.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9901	Here, Mr. Racan, I'll make the connection. You said that on some thoughts, you probably didn't think of them as a fight, a petty fight for a little point. First of all, I think it's sad, I'm sad because fighting in principle, for principles you call fighting for a little point. We even proposed the law, we worked hard on it, we know something about it, we propose, we try to be constructive, we talk about what the problem is. We don't create, we're not for making television that would please us, the opposition, we're for public television. It is unserious to compare all other functions with the function of director of Croatian television. Croatian television has special status. It's not the same to be the head of the state power company and head of the company for the production of information. The editor-in-chief is the problem. ... We're even something, but I'm not gonna say what you and I talked about in private in the hallway. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The editor-in-chief is the problem. The way it's set up. It's the first time it's set up, and you can't say it's not a political appointment. Yes, it is a political appointment because it is directly appointed by the party in power through its deputy chief director. I mean, that's obvious. What are we here, what's our petty political point? Because we say turn the public on. Now you suddenly don't trust the Programme Council, because there are some people sitting there, some Igor Mandici, some, please. And this one, what's it gonna be? That's what I'm saying, Batman. What's it gonna be? God forbid it's gonna be a genius man, God forbid it's gonna come true.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9902	Thank you very much. The next replica is the replica of respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9903	Thank you. I'd agree with my colleague Racan in a lot of ways. The situation is really complicated on television from the age of technology, the program to everything that Croatian TV does to Croatian television. However, by this law, here is this cathedral of the spirit that will be closer to me and you both will turn into a cube, but not during your father's time, but in that time before democratic changes, when it was indeed in that cube that decided everything. The appointment of the director by the parliamentary majority puts HTV under the control of the ruling and that must be clear to all of us. And we don't have to sell anyone any kind of demagogy right now that we're all hoping that on HTV it'll be better to take responsibility. No, that puts HTV and HRT under control. At the same time, it will also not affect the reduction of that subscription that all citizens who own a television receiver or a radio receiver pay or will help that grandmother who has received the award. But thousands and thousands of Croatian citizens who are being put to work by Croatian broadcasters who are not coming to some environments. For example, for 20 years, they didn't come to the Giakovic circuits, 20 full years. In the last two years, they've been coming, but they're showing footage thanks to these discussions here in the Parliament. So what I want to underline is that neither the appointment of the director will affect the reduction of the subscription nor will it improve life in Croatia. However, this public television, which is only in the beginnings, will no longer become state-run, but will become only a party and should all be clearly not entering and not wanting to tie the SDP to the communist party. It was not in my mind at all, although some today think so, so they fear the laws they will pass and do not agree practically with their own opinion. Well, that reminds me enough of those times when many disagreed with their own opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9904	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica and the esteemed representative Ivan Racan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9905	Yes, it can be interpreted, it can be interpreted, I replicate Mr. Vuksic first. There's only one difference compared to the last time we had state television, and that was 2,000 years ago. The difference is one thing, but it's big, and that's what 2,000 years ago it was possible because there were no other TVs, there were no other media. So the CEO is also responsible for the editor-in-chief as he has the authority, so he has the responsibility. If the editor-in-chief works badly, if television and the program are not seen as politics, we are not replacing the editor-in-chief, but we are replacing the principal. And that's the kind of influence. I don't have a problem with giving people authority in management, though. But they have to get all the tools for that management, and we're here to call them to account for it and how they do especially about media, public television, and it's happening in front of all of us. So, the thing is interpretation or experience can be, you don't have to. And as for the party television that you keep coming back to, you obviously miss it, because that's what you're talking about. You actually want some kind of party television, you probably dream it's HDSSB television, so you're jealous that you can't say something like that, so you're attacking us for something we don't really intend to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9906	Thank you very much. We're going with a ten-minute debate and a respected representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9907	By listening to the arguments, the reasons why this law needs to be intervened, only in the second part was it openly and sincerely recognised and said that this was the situation on HRT, that the 2010 model did not give the results expected and that the situation found was not sustainable and that it should be changed. And that's the only truth. And indeed, the state of the HRT, journalists themselves, in terms of the programme, assess the bad, and as regards HRT management, the business results answer the question of how money was spent. If we go from that, then we need to see if the solution offered is good enough to penetrate the reasons that led to this condition. But before that, when it comes to the opinion of the European Commission and recommend a qualified majority, I again warn that under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Law on HRT is not a law that could be introduced by a part of legal experts, a qualified majority, to appoint a director. But if then it is a sign of political goodwill for the ruling coalition, then it is their willingness to remove any suspicion that they will politicise that appointment in order to offer the head director of the HRT in the Assembly to be appointed by a two-thirds majority. And all these arguments, tensions and disputes would then fall into the water. So, after taking political responsibility, I see nothing controversial, but sharing political responsibility along with the opposition and the two-thirds majority is far more than one foreign takeover of the political responsibility that SDP representatives are calling for. We offer and offer the sharing of political responsibility for the state of the HRT appointment of directors in the Croatian Parliament to the two-thirds majority. You say no, that's what we're gonna do. Okay, that's a message. No, that's what you're gonna do. This law is one of the few laws to understand which one should read from the last article to the first, not from the first to the last, and in particular Article 22(3) reveals the key, which actually says that the Croatian Parliament will appoint an emergency manager and that, within the time of the immediate entry into force of this law, which will operate the HRT within 6 months until the legal procedure is made. My colleagues to Racan, and now I'm sorry he's not here, he ran away, so he said no to the manager, the manager, he said in the female manager. It's not an accident. Or, or. It's not an accident. So, if you think it's about gender equality, you're in great error. It's just that they know more than you do and nothing else. So, when we resolved the question that the ruling majority does not want to share political responsibility with the opposition, then I ask why you do not want to share professional responsibility with journalists in the appointment of editors of television and radio? [[Intruder: Please do not throw away, let's keep the business atmosphere in the Assembly, please.]] So now we're talking about sharing professional responsibility. Why wouldn't the journalist's opinion make a commitment to the director when the editor's appointment? It has nothing to do with politics. So that's our second offer to you, share professional responsibility with the profession, with the creators of the program, and these are not just journalists, that's more than 300 people in that public service. You're saying you don't need that either, and we'll take it through our deputy director. Okay, you've got obviously strong shoulders, don't let your spine crack too soon. This is the way you use the law to turn public television into state television. Step away from that, cancel the fee, finance HRT from the budget, and then things are clear, clean. I won't complain to you. It's clean bills, then it's taking responsibility. And what's being negotiated is that we have to give those we appoint tools. That's right. Then why the Programme Council? So the director will also edit the program because you give it a tool to edit the program. Then the Programme Council doesn't need it. If the management authority, which is a big difference, management and software part, so if we're giving our tools to the director, then what's the supervisory board for? Then have that director directly match the Government of the Republic of Croatia as with other public companies. It's a state service, and then things are clean. And those of you who don't understand why we mentioned the insolence of neoliberal capitalism, a little free lesson. So that capital, neoliberal capitalism can succeed, then the first task is to put it into the addiction of all media. Commercial media creates things by nature dependent on money, advertising space, time, minutes, seconds, long-term, short-term contracts and whatever you want. There are public televisions in several Member States of the European Union and in Croatia, and they are a thorn in their eyes, because precisely because of the fact that public service cannot put them into financial dependence by respecting them legally. Using various spins, plantings, confusion, not knowing what begins to pressure the commercialisation of public television, to prove that citizens should not be burdened with conversion, that this does not have to be the cost of the state budget, but that they should be elected and financed by the commercial promotional programme. It also threatens HRT, and don't be surprised if in a few months or a year this attitude, such proposals, such pressure on HRT begins by justifying it by the crisis, without money, with crime, with bad spending, with everything. There is also the interest of large capital that both the only and the rest of the public media service through money is placed under the control of advertisers, and then there are no more limits to their freedom, to enslave everything through media space. I now warn you of this possibility because there are circles in Croatia whose emissaries, and from the outside they slowly began to drag this thesis through media space. And I ask all those who look critically at the views and remarks that we have made out of the opposition today, will you bow down then, will you and then say we have another billion of them to sting, there is no way HTV is funded on the market as well as other televisions justifying it to user, financial citizens, and in fact you'll be able to please those who stand behind this crisis on HRT. It wasn't by chance that bad law enforcement happened, it wasn't by accident this chaos on HRT, it was done on purpose, they were just expecting direction, way, tools, solving problems differently than what happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9908	Thank you very much. The next representative is entitled to 10 minutes is the respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9909	Here's what we've divided 20 minutes a half. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am going to rely on this debate, not with intent, but Mr. Lesar gave me a smigwort. I'm probably one of the few people who stands up for cutting ads on HRT. I've been having long talks on the board, with HRT reporters, and after two, three months of talks, they were close to my solution. One of the world's most prominent televisions, certainly the best European television is BBC, and we can even agree on that. The BBC cut the commercials, didn't cancel the commercials because he didn't want any extra money, because he doesn't like to have billions in his cash register. He's cut the commercials with an explanation. He doesn't want anyone to influence his program. It's funny when people say big capital, what big capital can do. Croatian tycoons determine a lot of things on HTV, who can, who can't go into the program, who has to be replaced, who doesn't have to be replaced, who's going to be the journalist who runs, that's what Croatian tycoons do. That's what politicians do, unfortunately, but unfortunately, politicians can't do it anymore because politicians don't have any influence on the TV programme. They have some, but that's what gave them their PRs that are stronger because they have money in their hands. It's sad to mix pears and apples. The first management cannot place a sign of equality between the management and editing of the program. Editing isn't management, it's two different concepts, two different categories. Always, look at the media in the Western democracies, these are two separate functions. It's the director who runs the business and the head office that edits it. There are media in the US, so they're not communist media, they're not self-management media, the biggest media in which journalists' opinion is required in the election, the placement, so they're involved in the choice of private media. Which is why, because it's logical, because the editor-in-chief won't be able to edit a newspaper in which he'll have a white strike from the press. Of course, in that newspaper, such newspapers come to know which profile of journalists and journalists come to the newspaper. However, what we have done, we are discussing here in the Croatian Parliament, and the government proposes that nothing be asked of the press. Okay, it won't ask the press, who the journalists are, who's 300 non-renovators, directors, stage designers, costume designers, screenwriters, tonics, lights, masters who work, who participate in the creation of HRT. What will they ask when he knows, we have one man, he knows everything. He says we're, the whole time he repeats himself here, we're ready to take responsibility. Well, it's not taking responsibility for suspending democracy, so it's not taking responsibility for abolishing media freedoms, it's not your right, it's nobody's giving you the right. You've completely ruled out the public, the public doesn't exist, so it's public television. When you object to us to talk, we are not talking about the information program, we are talking about Croatian public television, about HRT that should be public. It took place in 2000 to create public television, but no public television was created. You can tell by the results, you can tell by the frames, it's by who controls that television. That TV is journalistic, sorry doesn't control, who does the TV, they're the same people. It's just that they're either behind the scenes or they're in front of the camera. One of those same people since the '90s when Mr. Antun Vrdoljak set up some people they're still bright and dressing on HRT today, something behind the scenes, something in front of the camera. No matter what authority they are, they are always similar and always agree with the authorities. And they always do their black and white lists. Popular and unpopular. Who are they putting on? They put people like they used to. The journal couldn't have started without HDZ president, except it wasn't said "Good evening, Mr. Sanader". And that was the man who replaced the editor-in-chief of Vjesnik just because she published a small picture in Washington at the bottom of the page because she couldn't have been the editor Andrea Latinović who could confirm it to the council because it was grained if it increased, he said to change to college and humiliate her. Yeah, that's what it was. What's going on? Now it's going back to one extreme or it's going on that path. No one has ever explained why so many mistrusts with the public, why these 11 people, above all, think that if the Programme Council is a body that analyses the programme and if there are no people in the Programme Council who are interested in what they are analyzing then journalists cannot sit in the Programme Council because it is a conflict of interest. If Goran Grgic cannot sit in the Programme Council because he is an actor and could act in the drama of HRT, then no journalist who participates in the creation of an informative, dramatic, educational any other programme can participate as a member of the Programme Council. I think it's a delusion. And secondly, the Programme Council should be attended by media experts, respected intellectuals. Do we have them? We also have different worlds as it says in the bill of law, different worlds. Right-to-left lights. We have and they're competent, and they know the media and they know how to choose the editor-in-chief. But we don't trust them either. For what will they do, and what if they choose one who will not listen to politics? Do we have a right to doubt? Well, we have 22 years of practice warning us that we have to suspect and we don't think they'd tell us tomorrow, so you didn't tell us that, you were quiet. Well, of course, which is the opposition's job than to spot your mistakes and warn you of your mistakes. What's the role of the position? So that smart suggestions that are useful to the whole society respects. That's what you said at the beginning when the prime minister addressed the Croatian Parliament he said changes practice, now we will respect the opposition. You've never seen one point before. And you don't even dare put the law we proposed. It's not the same coincidence why this law isn't in this debate today. Two months and a few months he was bathed in someone's drawer, not put in the process. It's just under new laws. For what? Because it would appear that this law was written what I said before when I spoke for the club, that law can be written, it's been written for months, six months. Please, do you see how it's written and how much of a law is written? There are a lot more experienced people than I am, and I've tried to write something, so I can see that it can be written before. The Croatian Labour Club doesn't have as many legal experts as you do, so it's derived how many laws as an opposition? It wasn't overnight, it wasn't written for six months, it was arranged for six months, it was decided and it was seen what was the model to be completely honest. When we first talked about this law, we came together, I as chairman of the Media Committee, and we agreed on the law you don't have on the table, such a law was agreed. Those principles, not those words, those principles. And suddenly someone said it doesn't work, it'll be too democratic, we can't control it. Again, I won't be indiscreet, the man who also participated in the talks said we want control and simply this isn't going without control. Yes, you need control, but you need control of your business, control of HRT content has no right. He has the right only to the public, and the public is not a Parliament which is also the basis of politology, we are not the public as it certainly wants to be presented. The public is the 11 well-elected, and we should be careful to choose well or only confirm by one model that is best for those 11 to be a real public representative. And in the end, I beg you in the name of that public, so no one has the right to fight for party television. But you yourself wrote that it was party television. We're not passing you over, we're just reading that text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9910	Thank you, Your Honor. The next representative is Sunny Glavak and her 10 minutes in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9911	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will continue with this last thing you said, and I will agree with it if the Ministry of Culture, or the Government as a Proposer, has decided to introduce order in financial and other business on HRT through the institution of a strong director, then I believe that it must be countered by the same strong and independent functions of the editor-in-chief of radio and television. I also believe that it is clear or hastening when the minister speaks only Croatian television, is not Croatian television, but is Croatian Radio Television, and I think we should pay attention to that as well. In the explanations and arguments we had the opportunity to see, it is not stated why the administration is actually being abolished and why the principal's office is being reintroduced because I will remind you, and colleagues have spoken before me about the fact that HRT has over 3,000 employees, that there is a huge amount of money going on over a billion kunas of income, and all the discussions and analyses have shown over the past years that such a huge system cannot, and I will say and must not be in the hands of one person or cannot be guided by one person. This proposal gives the Director-General extremely high authority. In addition, the law mixes its functions, or its functions as manager, in relation to those on the content especially in the section when we talk about content. I also warn of the fact that HRT is being treated too much as a business subject and too little as a public media or public service. Such remarks have come, and I believe that you have received them, if you have not just mentioned something, so from the branches of the Croatian Journalist Society of the Croatian Radio which requests that Croatian Radio Television be treated first as a media subject of Croatian society, and that it is not allowed and cannot be treated as a HEP or HZ for example. So, public service, not as Croatian railways or as Croatian electric economy. Equally, too much space is left, no matter how fiercely you defend it, for possible political interference because when I talk about the Chief Director and it is unclear how he will, for example, appoint his deputy, on which deadline he will do it, to whom we, or not us, will not support it, to whom we are actually giving this huge system into our hands. And why we forget that Croatian broadcasting is a huge system that is interesting to many, and it is primarily interesting to TV and its information program, however much they dispute. All of us who have dealt with the media know little about the media, we know that the information program is what the political scene is most interested in. As far as the directorship is concerned, it is unclear or not prescribed how many members, what are the conditions, on which the deadline is to be chosen. So, in the event of the prevention of the principal, I remind the deputy to take charge, and that person does not verify any body, at least the law does not explain it to us. What are the qualifications of that person, and on what deadline can it be appointed, and what would be her authority? The 2010 public debate on the Law on Croatian Radio Television has shown that there are serious doubts about the independence of administrative bodies that would be directly elected by the parliamentary majority. I'll remind you of that, it was fierce, it was long, it was transparent, and we all agreed we found the best solution. It's called turning HRT into state television and let's not lie about someone not saying it, it's been said several hundred times, it's been fiercely attacked, challenged. They flew this assembly of insults we don't want to hear anymore and we don't want to repeat them. Let's not pretend it didn't happen. The director-in-chief elected by the Parliament and each year gives the Report to the Croatian Parliament, which depends on its re-election, of course we all know, is the most direct interference of politics in the management of Croatian radiotelevision. This means, in fact, that the principal will come and go with a shift of power. His function will therefore be in hands, or his fate will depend on the current government. Since he is responsible for everything and for finance, and for editorial policy means that everything on HRT will be decided directly by the parliamentary majority. So we're saying clearly whether it's the influence of politics then or not? Chief Director, and I'm fiercely protesting that everyone closes their eyes. I said that by correcting one of my colleagues today, you shouldn't be a member of a political party. Therefore, it is not enough to limit only membership in the bodies of political parties. So that's the same thing, you know how to say round and round and on the corner, so it's not, so we all know that, then we're saying that it's not, so I think it's a matter of precision and we're going to have time to do another reading. As far as the Programme Council is concerned, counterpart Vuksic said something about it, if the Programme Council represents and protects the public interest, as I ask you, HRT employees may be members of the Programme Council, they need to protect the interest of HRT and not the public. And we're still calling on that same public. I'll just say a few words about the contract, a contract that's crucial in order to bring HRT funding into line with state aid rules, and you know what's scheduled. Why is the re-signing of a temporary contract provided that a contract can be signed that can be changed at any time? Why don't we change the annexes, why isn't that the way it's supposed to be? Well, the appointment of a new administration is certainly a valid reason for an annexed contract, and I hope we get an answer to this question as well. I think we should seriously consider this and why we are predicting this signing. When the law was in line with State aid rules, the greatest effort was actually made and the most debate was being held in order to oversee business. Again, we can ask why the filling of bodies that are currently overseeing business is obstructed. I think it is not politically correct to say that no one wants to go into those bodies, but I believe that the ruling should have done so, the applicable law is in force, the applicable law should be respected and those bodies should have been filled in and then discussed whether or not it can be done in this way. It is clear to all of us that it is important to protect everyone in one way or another, and in fact does not protect what Croatian Radio Television is and I think it is irresponsible, irresponsible, especially here in the Croatian Parliament to say that nothing is good on HRT. On Croatian television, there are a number of valuable, respected members of our community, professionals, and I think we should no longer use words in this House as we heard today. I appeal to you, these people aren't guilty if someone did something wrong, because they didn't know it, they didn't participate in it, and we can't do more than three or a few thousand employees apostrophe in one way or another, because of the mistakes of individuals. I also feel that we need it, that we need a whole new Media Act. We've heard a lot that something is going to happen, and in six months we've got these little changes, they say so from the ministry, I think they're huge. We will see how far-reaching the consequences of the adoption of this law, or its implementation, will be. But I think that the Croatian Parliament must distinguish freedom of expression of opinion, i.e. media freedoms and limit the achievement of its political decisions, i.e. they want for political power. Croatian broadcasting must remain a public service, we all agreed. However, not in an aggressive way and not in such direct political interference, no matter how much they want to tell me that's not the case. There are no colleagues here who have said something quite different in the past, who praised the existing law, who praised the minister at the time, said what kind of example it is that laws should be passed, and that is, less than 2 years passed when we speak quite the opposite, that is, they speak quite the opposite. And they say nothing is wrong, let's go over and over again this will be the law that will settle things, colleagues and colleagues I doubt. I think this law will be harmful, but let's give it a chance to live. Of course to those who will raise their hand for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9912	Thank you very much. The word has a respected representative, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9913	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister with your associates. So this proposal for amending and supplementing the Law on HRT clearly speaks of the intention of the ruling parliamentary majority that as well as the government chosen by the majority would like to clearly return HRT under the party patronate and commissioner management mentioned here in the Croatian Parliament of our fellow MPs will be clearly operational. Management, management, staffing in the final programming policy, monitoring of information and everything else is known in previous times of political rule, and also in pre-political times of one-mindedness. Each political set has tried in any way to control this public system because they are fully aware that whoever controls the information controls both society and events, it has a public service in its own hands that will declare its political option, praise it and lift it up, hide what is wrong and not talk about what is going on negatively in society, in laws, and in names and resolution. When the final consensus of 2010 was reached on the legislative proposal when all the items that are the Programme Council were defined, which is the Supervisory Board, which is a joint session and how can be chosen by the Director, what contracts and contractual forms are applied to each other by the Government and the HRT, which is controlled by the Croatian Assembly when it is all agreed, when the strong salves of praise are in this House on the Information and Media Committee which I was then a member of clearly demonstrated, when all the obstacles were lifted, when it was really talked about the public service and its role, when it was talked about citizens as public contractors of that public service and responsibility to those citizens, everything would be nice and beautiful to be broken down once, in order to talk about it in the amendment proposal and supplementing how nothing works, how Croatian broadcasters do not serve the purpose, how they do not meet the contractual obligations of the Court until the pre-session. The minister states this, the government gives such an explanation and therefore it is necessary to amend the law in order to control the system. I do not see anything other than wanting to control what is property and what is financed by all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. This can't be the subject of anyone's political option, it can't be the subject of a Kukuriku coalition in this case, it can't be the subject of anything more than it should be the subject of the adoption of the Law on HRT by a two-thirds majority. Then they would satisfy both the public and the control, they would also meet the needs arising from the European Commission's observation and monitoring which is still present in the Republic of Croatia on all issues, as well as on this. This illegal obstruction that took place in the Croatian Parliament, non-competition for five members who resigned or who for any reason went certainly speaks of the ultimate goal and intention of the ruling majority. It is tendeciful to call unfounded by the minister and thus to take the government's position that the obligations of the temporary contract of the HRT and the Government are not met and that they are not fulfilled by the obligation of public interest, i.e. the unequal representation of the content of public interest. This reasoning makes it clear that the government and the ruling majority want to turn public television into government television and thus to appoint the chief director as the political commissioner to appoint editors, directors and so to start on HRT with the division of prey won in the previous elections. The division of prey has been repeated hundreds of times in this Parliament and in previous councils when it comes to HRT. Clearly, we also feel that the first Vice-President Cacic's statement is that, if it wasn't for the division of the spoils, it was just political responsibility to those who chose them. This political responsibility certainly does not stem from everything we have made in the past Law on HRT which clearly defined who, what and how it works, how it is chosen and how the Joint and Programme Council and the Supervisory Board make important decisions on HRTU. It was necessary to fill it in so that it could function and make decisions. We hope he doesn't show up for a competition for Chief Director Mr. Ferenchuck or anyone similar to him to be confirmed and appointed, and then called off afterwards. I guess things won't happen again. Unfortunately, we also hope that this news on HRT will not be darkened or downloaded in the journal or informational emissions that arise. We believe that such information will not be downloaded from the HRT Log. And we believe that it will not happen on public television, or perhaps it is, that there will be no news that this government is ineffective, that legal solutions do not come out of the crisis, that by increasing gas and electricity prices, toll and VAT, without ideas, incompetence, wandering, no-checking, abolishing or delaying the work of public perpetrators and all that has been done in these past months, that I will no longer trust this information by making such political decisions and new law. Such information will be prohibited, because it is not news, it is not news that would go hand in hand with the ruling set. Today, two years later, it happens that the public interest of the citizens they finance and pay for this public television with this Law will no longer be a public service and will no longer be independent of this Croatian television. It will depend on party executives, on the party dictatorship, on the coalition dictatorship that will share what is for the director, for the principal, which is for the one who will be the editor of television and radio, and thus all the lower personnel will share it as the prey won in the elections. I believe the citizens will recognize it as said here. Regardless of the possibility for the parliamentary majority to make such decisions and laws, I believe it would have been much nicer and better if she had taken responsibility for HTV financing if she had put really in the position of state television, that she had freed the citizens from paying the subscription so that our pensioners and all the poor people who didn't have enough income would be released or to put the counter on every television camera so that whoever wants to watch Nova pay, whoever wants to watch HRT pay HRT. We would then see who has a good programme under this law and this editorial policy that we are now talking about both this law and the appointment of the director by the parliamentary majority. I'm just wondering if it really didn't come to this law or in the second reading or now the amendment free the citizens of paying for HRT, let's make it government television, state television, let the government pay, let it be... let the principal appoint her, let her appoint the directors of the program, let her name everything she wants, and let her answer for it. I believe that this would be the best solution since there is no two-thirds majority in deciding on this law, that our consensus on this, then citizens should also be excluded from funding this way to control the party control of HRT. I believe that this law clearly introduces a political patronate over public television, returns to pre-political times at the time of the Central Committee and the Communist Party of Croatia, but also in 2010 you said that it must be at the level of the task so that what may be in the nature of every political party and options comes out of this framework and work for the benefit of the people.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9914	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9915	Those were the words used in this House. They're gone today, they can't be heard today, they're forgotten today, they're completely different today.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9916	Thank you very much. Time's up. There's been a reported correction to your exposure to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9917	I think silence might say more than a lot of words. On a series of truths that have been given here a reminder of party control, of political patronate, of the central committee of the Communist Party of Croatia where most members have just ended up in your ranks, but imputing Kukuriku to the coalition of prey sharing, after your division of prey become victims that we will be raising for generations and generations in this country. The victims of your division of prey. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9918	Thank you, too. And one replica of the respected representative Sandra Petrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9919	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here I am just fascinated by this lecture by fellow Djakic on democratic procedures and on media freedom and independence. I am interested above all in how it is possible for colleagues Djakic to come from the mouth of such words as are excelling in the independence of the media when we know here a colleague from my electoral unit from my county who and in any way is listening to and controlling radio shows on private radio stations before they enter the air if they were visiting members of the SDP or any other political option that is not HDZ. I am now fascinated by his desire to bring this law by consensus, to bring it to a two-thirds majority. I mean, let's face it, this isn't the Republic of Croatia, I don't even know what we're talking about. Surveillance, censorship, so control of information. Whoever controls the information has the power, those are exactly the words spoken by counterpart Djakic here for these reasons, it really, really fascinates me, maybe it scares me a little. I didn't live or a very small part of my life I lived at a time of communism so I don't know how you experienced the power of the commissioner, the power of the commissioner, the power I don't know these institutions you're talking about, but in any case I know that the choice of chief director would have a little stronger powers that would have been the right thing to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9920	Thank you very much. Now we'll hear what experiences were in response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9921	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's to an esteemed colleague, I must make it clear to my countrywoman that media freedom is in our constituency. Our county is such that especially private media can't control them because they call whoever they want, do whatever they want, present whenever they want, turn it off whenever they want, and I've experienced many times to be just excluded in important things, cut and cut, and that's exactly where you and I come from, where we lived and worked at the place of birth from the likes of our friends. They are also in the interest of their financial profits doing as they please and how someone paid them more or did not pay them. So, if you're late from the SDP with an account or a HDZ account, you won't be invited to the show and you won't be released in full if you release a statement. That's their value and that's how they do it. And as for this, I'm going to read you who said it. What I repeated, and all I did was repeat the ex-law statement when it was Mr. Beus Richembergh's debate that just came in. He said, "All political furniture in one way or another has been trying to control that system fully aware that whoever controls the information, it controls society. Isn't Mrs. Secretary from his policy option, isn't that your coalition partner? But you should say and get out of this pre-political era and look the interests of the nation into the eyes and be at the level of the task and stop what may be in the nature of every political party, come out of this framework and work for the benefit of the people." That's what Mr. Beus Richembergh said, your coalition partner honored my friends and colleagues. So, you know, those aren't my words, they're yours and your coalition partners.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9922	Thank you very much. We're going with the debate of the next ten-minute representative and the esteemed representative Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9923	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So here I am going to start my debate, and I'm just going to go back to the recent past, about a year and a half as long as this HRT Act is in effect. For half a year, we discussed it in a way that the procedure through public debates, through the appointment of committees of different profiles that provided expert opinions, proposals on a new law, which should have been obtained to make the law as small as possible under political influence, so that they neutralized it as much as possible. This was systematically designed, but we came to a consensus in this house and before that we got the green light since Croatia had signed obligations when meeting the requirements of EU entry. We've only recently had changes to that law on the table. Why? So here I have to ask myself and you the question, although this is my first term, I hear about the catastrophic state of television and radio, probably because it's about Croatian broadcasting, alarming, management crisis, financial crisis, and I don't know what kind of crises, but through a flat-rate story without any concrete data, indicators, all based on subjectivity, adjudications, I haven't heard, etc. I wonder where the HRT work report is. From what I've heard, the report on the work of the Program Council has been denied. Why didn't we wait until we got that report at the club, just to hear the other side, to hear those who are through the law that is still in force responsible for HRT's work, so for the work of the public service. Of course there are problems, but they have to be dealt with by law enforcement, and those who are responsible for it and on television, they do, but to God and to this home. Why don't we have one HRT score in the last 10 years, maybe even more, through simple indicators, numbers that are mathematics, so finance and program, what's been recorded and shown or not, so we'll easily compose what's been going on with HRT all these years, or with the finances that's been going on, and what's been going on in the last year or two days. I even claim that HRT is now financially consolidated and that it stands better than it has ever stood in the last 10 years. And the reason for that minimal loss that is likely to be in difficult economic times is precisely the payment of the millions of debts incurred in the time of the great principals that we are seeking, so to the system that we are seeking to return to today, which this home through the Media Committee has amnested, blessed, through which it has crossed over like a shallow stream. Why do we talk about each other all the time, why we insult each other, why we insult institutions, no matter what, in this case, HRT. What else do you say about that? We say that implementation of legal solutions that are... In law, it's not good that I can't get results. [[You don't understand.]] Well, exactly the opposite. We have a chosen management structure and even for the first time in the history of the new Croatia without political influence. The chosen management structure, the editors-in-chief, with the opinion of the profession, and not without the opinion said by Mr. Stazic, who is not here right now. One who says that any political influence on this was done by, say, a party in power can then be applied if the nonsense rises many would float and perhaps fly. So who can say that the choice for which Mr Ante Tomic, Mrs Zgrabljić, Sonja Ivić and so on. may have political influence for the parties in power at the time. But if we really want to talk about blocking these bodies, then we have to talk about us. Six months ago, requests were sent again for the completion of the Programme Council in a way to call a tender and to appoint the number of members who for these or those reasons left the Programme Council. And finally, if we really want to be transparent, and we want some consensus, if we want responsibility, what's the problem with this legal solution that we're proposing today if nothing else in the Media Committee brings 2/3 to the majority. So Director General, Supervisory Board, Program Council. If it has to be in such a way that there is no more balance of opposition and position why shouldn't it go there 2/3 of the majority, why are we taking responsibility all together? What are we afraid of? Except that this law that is in force, I will not repeat the Syntagma of Commissioners, but the fact is that all the power contained in the image and the work of the CEO is absolutely unsustainable, the more he appoints one and another editor-in-chief. In other words, whether you want to admit it or not, there's a fear, I'm not gonna say whether it's justified or not, but she's here. And we need to avoid such a possibility that this television will simply come under the control of the political party in power, that the interest that HRT as the strongest and most important national media will not be the public interest but, unfortunately, the political option in power, regardless of who it is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9924	Thank you, Your Honor. We have reported three replicas to your exhibit. Let's get this straight. The first is Honorable Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9925	Comrade Milas, I appreciate your approach, among other things, because you are personally interested in showing the picture of HRT as pink as possible because you were sitting in a very important body that led the story on HRT. But to say that HRT scores are based on flat-rate stories, on some advertising stories, that there are no concrete documents, indicators, information simply doesn't stand. A huge amount of documentation that testifies to illegalities on HRT has already been forwarded to the state's attorney's office, so you've certainly read in the papers and heard that there's an affair that's been rolled up and touched by HRT, which is the Cora media affair. HRT itself was declared optional a month ago under the Law on the right to access information because it closes, the existing administration closes the space and does not allow the information to leak. All the testimonies we listened to at the round tables of the Croatian Journalist Society, at various meetings organised by the union branch, testimony of journalists, editors, employees of the law violations as they ended? The sanctions, the threats before the fire, the cancellation of the show. Aren't those enough indicators to say something's wrong? Not only did the members of the Programme Council resign, not only did the members of the Supervisory Board resign, but the board member also resigned, and the same administration resigned. Isn't that one of the real, quality indicators that things don't work out? I really don't know what I'm supposed to do? Should any parliamentary representative be provided with all that information and any documents that have come out of the HRT from the services in charge of the legality of the work on that television and which show that the laws are not respected there. Is it not the fact that HRT is seeking an increase in the amount of the subscription already sufficient information that the financial situation in the house is not good? Isn't it the fact that HRT is in charge of an additional few hundred million kunas indicates that the thing isn't good? You can say whatever you want, but the situation really isn't right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9926	Thank you very much. And the reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9927	Thank you very much. Well, dear Mr. Beus, of course I'm interested, but for reasons I think every honest and normal man is interested in the situation on HRT. And when I say it's flat-out then out of my mouth, no matter how much I respect every MP and parliamentary representative, it still doesn't mean anything to me, but it's not really an argument, so that's still what she told me. I can love more or less one journalist or I can think that one journalist is better or worse and that his approach to problems that are on TV is like this or like that, but it's still my subjective opinion. So when we get from the bodies that are in charge of this really state that on TV is criminal, that it's a crime or anything else I'm going to admit it as an argument and only then will there be an argument. And everything else so far, I can't accept it this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9928	Thank you very much. The next replica is the replica of the respected representative, Josip Kregar. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9929	Dear Mr. Milos, I appreciate the tone with which you have expressed your views, but I cannot agree with the arguments and the description of the situation you state because this would mean that we are blind to daily not only inscriptions but also to fully firm factual knowledge of the procurement procedures above all, the purchase of external production and the like taking place on HRT. Instead of dealing with such situations, existing bodies have been calmly suffering or have been brought into a state of total hibernation and division. With regard to the hard evidence that we should wait for, should we wait for a judicial verdict against which media? I don't think we should intervene right now. And this argument that's going to actually maintain the status quo doesn't seem right to me, and I think the procedures need to be speeded up. And finally, because I see time, I'll have enough to tell my personal experience in which the leader, which is heard, says, is about me and one election debate, says turn it off, don't let him talk. If you don't believe me, look at youtube.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9930	Thank you very much. And the reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9931	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Craig, I can agree with you to do something, but I don't understand why we're not criticizing ourselves. So, from a body called the Program Council, why am I talking about the Parliament, I'm not thinking about you, so why aren't we talking about ourselves? Why, then, after repeated requests to enforce the law, do they allow the normal work of those bodies to be done, so why not take what has been legally established? Why are they blocking the work of the one who is there to oversee the work of Croatian broadcasters, i.e. the fulfillment of public interest? Why aren't we as loud here as we are and why aren't we talking about ourselves the same way? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9932	Thank you, too. The next line is the replica of respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9933	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague, Miles, you've been speaking loud and clear about things that are certainly not legally respected, things that haven't been done, I believe on purpose. It is deliberately not filled with 5 members in order to work, it is deliberately obstructed that the work of the Programme Council in a joint session with the Supervisory Board shall take all necessary steps and shifts if necessary, but that is the only way to do so. It can't be done like it was before. You can't treat it like an election prey right now and wait for an opportunity to set up your principal. The election took place in 2001 when Director Galic was appointed on the proposal of late Racan's Croatian Parliament, most of which confirmed him. That's clear. And it's defined as an election prey then. As well as any director of a public enterprise or minister, he proposed to this Croatian House. It is clear that the President of the Programme Council Hope Zgrabljić Rotar is clearly saying that there is no argument on the government's denial of its report, that everything has been done as it stands in the contract. Why don't we have that report in front of us as agents? Why don't we read her statement and the manifestion of the Programme Council, i.e. Report from the Programme Council on the work of the HRT Programme Council? Why don't we have him in our compartments and in our benches? Why is he hiding from us? It's a question of all the questions in which the bush lies a rabbit and why the rabbit is not available to the public. Indeed, this new draft of the law is, and I'm sure, first of all, that the concept of state television is coming back, and so are you, Mr. Miles, in your discussions, further and more concise, so let's just say to the public that the government wants to finance Croatian television and free the citizens, and everyone will clap. It will be a general pleasure in the Republic of Croatia, not to be controlled by the Government by the money of our citizens and us personally as representatives, but rather by the Government. They won't pay and everyone will be happy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9934	Time. Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9935	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, dear representative Djakic, I agree with the fact that I also do not understand why the assembly did not receive the Report of the Programme Council, however, the HRT report? So management structures. We talk about the law and talk about what happened while the situation is what it is. And why don't we let that other side, and they say, that they're telling us exactly what the situation is and what it's about. And what will bring more changes to this law in terms of business and everything that will happen on HRT, we can say that there will be a financial loss of about 200 million kuna due to the pressure we do not have yet begun restructuring of HRT. We delayed the adoption of the 5-year Croatian Treaty with the Government for one year, neglecting that it was signed and agreed with the European Commission, etc., etc. We want a better programme, restructuring means about moving a circus of 500 people working on Croatian television today, that is, bringing them so many, so journalists and creative staff as we like to say it. But I don't think it's going to be possible in the next few years, but it's going to mean even worse in financial terms, and I'm afraid in a programming sense, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9936	Thank you, too. We're going to discuss this further and esteemed representative Đurjica Sumrak, 10 minutes of debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9937	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished minister with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. I'm glad I heard a lot of opinions here, but here's what I wanted to say on my personal behalf and our name from the HDZ Club. If we wanted to control the media in this way that you were proposing, then in 2010, we would not have passed such a bill, we would not have adopted all the proposals that came and that law would not have been consensually passed, but most of them would have talked differently today too. If we wanted the media to be in control of the state and government that I am in power in Croatia, then we would surely have agreed in the HDZ Club and supported this bill of yours. Because it is certain that in the next election you can no longer gain the trust of the people. However, we do not want it now, we want to have a good law on HRT, that the media are not under control, that the media are not one-minded, that the media can actually create people with their ability in their creative work, and it certainly is not, it is certainly not one person who will decide. I'm not going to be discreet right now. I'm not going to talk about the names that go through the public, who wrote this law and signed it, and who's going to decide who's creative who's not on that TV. It will certainly be creative, in this case, if this law is passed as it is, one that will glorify the character and the work of the ruling momentarily now. I'm listening here today from the coalition in power to take responsibility, because they're taking responsibility here, they're passing a law like this, or they're proposing a law like this. Well, here we are every time in reality since these six months since they started taking responsibility, this government has actually suspended democracy. So she abolished public procurement, so she sets up politicians, the desire is to put politicians on the Supervisory Boards. That's right, here's democracy suspended, in a very long way in six months' time, and this is now, I'm not going to say for sure it's not the last attempt to take responsibility in this way. Which, of course, when they got the trust of the people wasn't Plan 21, at least not public, this was probably some secret plan written on some paper, some ink that's now coming up in six months and we see what that responsibility means. All citizens who pay HRT's subscription don't want it to be this law, they don't want one person to be able to name it as software editors, they just don't want it. None of us who pay for the subscription of HRT are at all interested in the personal opinion of any head of an information show, or any head of a round table. All of us who pay are interested in a concrete fact, and each of us will create our opinion in a way that he wants. I'm thinking about why and how in reality it is this coalition government's wish to do so. So here's what we've had for years, our sympathisers have been telling us that we've never had the media and that the SDPs and the coalition know very well because they've always known how to have it in the hands of the media. As in reality, set up the main and responsible who will set up other main and responsible ones, all of whom will be the main and responsible ruling party. That's the part of the responsibility you really want to take over. I'm sure it won't go well in public. We saw now before the parliamentary elections, which means having the media. Mr. Comrade Kregar spoke on his own example, so all of us here, I'm sure in this assembly, we have thousands of such examples. When the media simply comment on your opinion personally or here you are as disfellowshipped. They dare to say, not on the basis of what you said, but they dare simply say what they think you thought, which is what we thought some of us thought, which doesn't answer the truth at all. I continue to say this opinion to different leaders irresponsiblely and therefore to no one in this Croatia, especially us in the HDZ club, but here I see both Croatian Labourists and all of us who advocate to give this law to the public, it is our wish that this law should not pass as such. Because it's really getting into democracy at the highest level. That's a good thing we've known for six months, that's what I said. However, here we should do a little bit of that experience of yours somehow set to a lower level. What's that gonna look like, what's that gonna be, who's gonna be today? I think that fellow Richembergh was talking about creative editors who would name the chief, so as he's going to do, he's going to tell them, no, this one's creative, my kid's creative, you're gonna throw it at you, he's genius. What's that creativity going to look like? What are we even doing in this law besides this intention, these intentions to make one television public? We got nothing, we got nothing. Here at one, there's nothing we can do to get something positive, simply but simply visible, read, here's the ink that finally showed up. So here we want to have television under control, we believe in the HDZ club in the interest of all Croatian citizens that it will not succeed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9938	Thank you very much. We have reported a single replica from the respected representative Sandra Petrovic. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9939	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's fellow twilight you said, I'm not going to correct you just because I've picked up the line. You said that citizens, all citizens of the Republic of Croatia who pay their subscription to HRT, do not want this kind of law. I ask you if the citizens who pay the subscription to Croatian broadcasters want HRT management, i.e. HRT which has been able to charge 40 million kunas to Transmitters and Liaisons. I ask you who will solve this problem, who will solve this dispute and who will be responsible for it? I read through the media transmitters and links could forgive this debt, but they were hitched by auditors because such debt forgiveness cannot be justified. So I don't know who's gonna pay for it. Probably the same citizens of the Republic of Croatia who pay the subscription. That's another problem we're talking about here in Parliament today.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9940	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica of the Đurjica Sumrak's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9941	Thank you, colleagues, for this replica of yours. Well, maybe the public contractors could have solved it if you hadn't shut them down. But there's something else I wanted to tell you, my colleagues. You see, just by opening this fight against corruption, the former government has opened up a place to talk about it on HRT, which is what the DORH takes over and it starts to work out. A great colleague is a problem, it's not a problem of the financial deficits you're talking about. It's not a problem now, five, seven years ago. Well, that's the problem that's been going on, dear colleague. You've been very young since 2000. I don't want to at all, I want to say that Croatian Radio Television has made a huge contribution to the Homeland War and it has to be said to them. That's got to be a confession. All other things, let those who have done be punished. Some public contractors, unfortunately, won't be able to. Here's the luck you've lifted from them, so they won't be able to comply with the law. Why didn't you name all those who resigned in six months? You didn't because you had a plan, because it was arranged for them to do it, and you came here to do what you wanted to do. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9942	Thank you very much. Next debate and debate of the respected representative Ivanka Roksandić. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9943	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honors Minister with an associate. Well, here's a colleague of the twilight you gave me like this, I'd say one of the cream worts with this last sentence of mine. I'm sorry some colleagues tried to turn today's debate, colleagues from the ruling coalition into politics. In fact, we in the opposition in no way want to politicise this important topic. We also do not want to show that we have followed the very important proposals of the opposition at the time in the last term, and that the same opposition and the same proposals that it has proposed and which are now respected by its decisions is revoking. I'll show you that through my argument. Thankfully, you've also sent this law to the first reading, which means in the regular procedure, because I think we're all going to be conscious that we're still going to consider these proposals that are on the table today, and after this debate that we're all having for just one benefit, the benefit of our public television. It would be good if we had received a report on the work of the HRT and the Programme Council. Why? Because that law that was passed at the end of 2010 after a very sharp, broad debate was passed right out, and it came out of what we discussed here every year in this assembly. We who have been there for two or three terms know well what we have been referring to. Exactly what changed in 2010 in that law. What we wanted with this law that's in force now that you're trying to change. We wanted first of all to ensure stable and responsible management of HRT and to ensure financial stability for which it gave the green light for such a solution and the European Commission, which some colleagues today say, should not be taken seriously. Still, they may change some things after we make a firm decision that we will not stray from our path. Why am I pointing that out? Because just yesterday, the same HRT in the main journal warns of the European Commission’s objections to the adoption of this law, and these are not the only objections from colleagues to the adoption of the law lately, they are not the only ones. The current law has well and clearly defined the content and functions of public television and the principle that we have constantly advocated in this assembly, all for true, impartial, full information to the public about events of public interest. It is repeatedly noted that HRT as a public television must process both economic and social and educational and health and cultural, scientific, ecological, religious issues. That's exactly what we insisted on. Therefore, in its information and its action, it must primarily be independent. The information provided by HRT must be verified. The comment is not information. I remember the debate of almost all colleagues regardless of whether they were opposition or were in power on the subject, that whoever brings news, whoever reads the news should not comment on the news. That's the basic rule of public television. It may be possible for someone on another show, but certainly not in the information show. The law also allowed the introduction of two specialised programmes. We all said through those reports that we miss cultural, musical shows, that we lack educational shows, shows for children and young people. And that's why we opened two specialized, the possibility of two specialized programs of which we have nothing because today we heard through this debate that really, that some things have been disabled because we haven't selected some bodies to the end, we haven't opened up the debate about these two specialized programs. How many years have we all referred criticism to the work of HRT from the programming to the financial in which it was, and we must recognise the non-transparent financing that has led to the instability of this medium, which is of particular importance I will once again say about the entire Croatian society. That is why we have also led to the fact that in 2010 we specifically mention and edit the management of the facility. According to the current law, HRT has management, supervisory board and the Programme Council. The Board of Directors shall have a chair and two members jointly appointed by the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board. Such management runs the business, manages the HRT, develops the programme of work of the financial plan. And what does this law foresee? This law that lies before us predicts that there are no more administrations. That administration was replaced by the Director-General. It has a directorship, there is a further supervisory board and the Programme Council, and the reason for these changes is that there has been a problem in the functioning and management of HRT and it is impossible to staff some bodies and therefore this management part should be changed. We must note, however, that, first of all, the introduction of a principal who has been given great powers again, primarily because of the possibility of political action on HRT and thus the full control of policy and influence through the director. According to this proposal, the HRT employee has huge powers, chosen by most of the Croatian Parliament's representatives. He's already heard today, he's really all-powerful, he can do it whenever he wants and how he wants to get rid of the editors-in-chief. The directorship of HRT is made up of directors of construction units and the tasks are prescribed by the Statuom HRT, which is brought by the Supervisory Board, but imagine on the proposal of the Director with the confirmation of the Croatian Parliament. What does that mean? That all power will once again be in the hands of one man appointed by politics, and that is exactly the law of 2010 and we have changed and should have avoided. That the full policy wants to be involved in the management and management structure of the HRT is also seen from the way members of the Supervisory Board are elected. 4 members are elected by the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Committee on Information, Information and Media, based on a public tender. One member is a member of the working council, and was completely expelled from Article 22, the next sentence "At least one member is elected on a parliamentary minority proposal". Imagine what happened to that 2010 debate when counterpart Stazic, on behalf of the club, said in the opposition to the SDP "that at least one member of that committee is elected on a parliamentary minority proposal. With such a solution, no one will have two-thirds of the majority guaranteed in that joint body elected by the Director-General. And we know from the Director-General that branch directors, editors, software policy at all. The director-in-chief wanted me to or did not play an important role in creating the position of television as public or as biased or prone to one option." It's just a year-and-a-half word. We're changing that now. The third proof is also the appointment of a programming council which we also now change by wanting the full impact of policy on the programme council. And here again, most will decide why in 2010 we all raised our hand against such a decision, and for a good example, a good change of this law that is in force. I'll finish my presentation, here's what the SDP Club said for this law at the debate in 2010. I think this law deserves praise because public television is generally good. She can't belong to either government or strangers. Governments change, parties come to power and public television can't be election prey, is it not good for that television to change its leadership, its concepts every time after the election. And you colleagues are now refuting what you said yourself in 2010. Television can't and can't be anyone's prey. And that is why this law that is now in force is much better than this proposal. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9944	Thank you very much. Time's up. And we have registered three replicas to your presentation of respected colleague Roksandić. The first one's a respected Djurjica twilight. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9945	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Minister, colleague Roksandic. I'll only continue on this last quote of yours as the SDP's representative speaks at the time. You see, they said that at the time, but they realized that they needed to take responsibility and that it should all be removed because it's not good. It's not good when it's democratic, it's not good, so we need to take responsibility and bring it all down to the common denominator and say we're going to introduce control because otherwise we're not going to get killed four years in this government. And one more thing, fellow Members, you said very well that the European Commission's warning has come, so maybe this law, and there will be no more warnings from the European Commission except fortunately that we have our representatives and representatives in the European Parliament as well, so we will get some information or some other television, because of course it is not nice to hear that the European Commission and Europe say, no, please don't name supervisory committees for political functions, no, don't cancel the tenders. Well, that's not very good. We struggled so much, we fought so much, we had the Homeland War, we passed so many laws, we ended negotiations to congratulate us, and now in six months, they've been showing up, they say, and imagine the transmissions of HRTs. It's not good. And so they consider responsibility to take over and post reports like this at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9946	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica of the respected representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9947	Thank you, Mr. Vice President Ma, you've said all this well, and that's the only objective of amending this law. In fact, we can do it and in some ways hides behind it all. I'm sorry this debate takes a month. That debate lasted half a year. She was very transparent. You have to dig here, look for something that people said at that debate, and you know there's always been one in the people, and in politics, for sure, in the hands of the media, it means having power.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9948	Thank you very much. The next replica is the replica of the respected representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9949	First of all, I thank my esteemed colleague, Roksandić, for announcing that she would not politicise on this agenda point, but we have seen that this failed in the replica. But I'm going to say why I think something about HRT and HRT should change, and that's simple. The HRT is unfortunately not working. About eight years ago she was leading, she was the most visible, she was the best, she had the most interesting program and everyone else followed her. Today is the least viewed, many will say that it is the worst, and at the same time it has the best technique and has the best professionals. Something's obviously wrong with her. Then you were talking about two programs specialized, where are they? There are none, so obviously then we have to do something to get these programs and to get HRT as public television, as television with the largest means back to where it has to be, which is at the head of Croatia's media space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9950	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica, respected representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9951	Well, look, colleague Grbin, I wasn't politicizing, I was just making a difference between your club's opinion while he was in opposition and at this point in power. Those were facts for you. I've read your colleagues' phonograms, and I haven't politicized in any way. I just wanted to show you that you say one thing when you're in power, and another when you're out of power. When you're in power, you just want to master the whole situation, and that's what these last words of yours say. You said today there's a disaster on TV, and now you're saying he's got the best equipment, the best situation, everything, and they're the worst software. You know why they are, because six months people resign in different bodies. There are mechanisms to force these bodies to team up and bring in programs, to form two specialized channels. No one talks about it, so because the bodies don't work, and they don't act because there's no good will for it to be filled, that they're personnel teams.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9952	Thank you very much. The third replica is the replica of the respected representative Josip Djakic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9953	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague, Roksandić, who said a lot, you forgot to compare what it was like in this assembly in 2004 when the report was submitted by Mr Galic. In the whole day's debate, we insisted that we know the amount of his receipts and we didn't find out. This was transparent, it was objective to the Croatian public, according to Croatian parliamentary representatives, that we could not find out all day in this House how much Mr Galic received and how he spent the money of those who paid for the Croatian subscription. So much for transparency, HRT quality, etc. What is happening today is editorial integrity based on the protection of professional interests of journalists from all forms of political influence, as well as the influence of other social groups, individuals in order to be credible and quality information to the public will be significantly damaged or will not be at all. The appointment of the principal director and editor of all levels will certainly not satisfy this quality because it will depend on the political decisions of the principal director who will be supported by this political majority in Parliament. If it were 2/3, it would certainly be more quality, more concrete, if it were a consensus, it would be best and it would certainly be transparent. And the improvement of work on what you're saying I don't see it because I am informed that all those who reported to the Commissioner for Quality have estimated that the quality of HRT is quite good, it can always be better and it has to compete and bond with all commercial televisions that work in the territory of the Republic of Croatia to survive and to reach them. But I will say that we have examples of strict management, management, business and everything else, and so did Galic's cry for non-transparent orders, spending money, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9954	Thank you very much. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9955	However, we do not have a report on whether the state judicial authorities have achieved any results in removing these deviations.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9956	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, respected representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9957	... Excuse me. [[Speech is not enabled.]] I told you why there was a change of law in 2010. You reminded me well of that famous I would say a 24-hour debate because it took a really long time, to mention I don't know any more blue, yellow, green shirts that were being bought and I don't know what they weren't, and you reminded me well of that, and that we never knew about the heights of the pay, the manager's contracts, the editorial accessories, we never found out, and we didn't find out because he was the principal and then he was incoherent. He was responsible for everything, he decided everything. This is after what we wanted to change in a completely democratic spirit, and you read as well as I just read the discussions of our colleagues on the opposite side of the last debate that shows why we changed the law in 2010 so now that this same law, that is, the proposal to manage HRT, because there is the starting point of all the problems, in the governance structure, to bring it back again. And I think that in a year's time, if the HRT work report comes, we'll discuss it just like we discussed in 2008 and 2009.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9958	Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. Dear Representative Martina Banic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9959	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Madam Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. We also have before us a draft bill on amendments to the Law on HRT. I believe that many here remember the debate of two years ago when the law was voted by consensus and when a broad discussion, workshops, round tables were particularly commended, which were related to the adoption of the law. At the same time, the chairman of the Assembly Media Committee also praised the Ministry of Culture and the minister for the law-making process and said this is an example of how the law should be amended. I wonder what happened in just two years, and now the law that was passed by consensus is changing. We have heard that the law is changing because of the business crisis, but neither today on the board nor today did we get any concrete indication of what kind of crisis the HRT crisis is in. The law is proposed to show the absence of any concept other than the achievement of the only real objective, which is that the majority of the majority are independently appointed by the Croatian Director-General. When it was proposed in 2010 that the Supervisory Board appoint the parliamentary majority of the opposition then said that HRT is transformed from public to state television. Today in the Assembly, the same defense defends the draft law where all bodies are appointed and supervised by the parliamentary majority. In the last six months, we have witnessed many times the selective memory of the ruling coalition so that we are not surprised at all. To remind you, in the old law of the management president, he elected a supervisory board with three members of the post, two members of the opposition and the Programme Council with six members of the post and five members of the opposition. And that took a two-thirds majority. I wonder if it's more democratic to choose in a way to bring the position and opposition into line or if it's more democratic to make the decision to the Kukuriku coalition? According to the draft law we are now discussing, the majority is elected by the Programme Council, elected by the Supervisory Board and elected by the Director-General. It is therefore possible to appoint HRT Director-General without any discussion with the opposition. This means absolute control of HRT, which means that we are turning HRT into a government service or more precisely into a service of the Kukuriku coalition. What is regulated by the 2010 Law is now seeking to impose what is certainly unacceptable and a step back in further development of media freedoms. There is also the opinion of the European Commission that the Law on HRT, which was adopted by consensus in 2010, was good. The new law is about guarantees of independence weaker, which practically means the new HRT law is deprived of independence. That's exactly what I'm warning you through this debate. We're going to change the law just to otherwise determine the appointment of leading public television people. We give broad powers to the Director-General, so he should manage the business, dispose of real estate and property, propose to the Supervisory Board of the Statute of the HRT, adopt general acts, propose the Work Programme and the Financial Plan of the HRT and appoint and resolve the HTV and HR Editor-General. In this way we allow one man to decide everything and give all authority to one man. A man who is under exclusive control of the Kukuriku coalition and reminds us of a puppet that guarantees us that HRT becomes a toy of the ruling. My colleagues and colleagues, this is not the way to solve the problem on HRT. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9960	Thank you very much. We have one correction to an incorrect quote and one replica. First of all, correction, distinguished representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9961	I would suddenly correct two incorrect allegations. The first, he says, is that the law is passed without any concept that the ruling majority will independently appoint all bodies on HRT, and the second is that we turn HRT into a government service. No, colleague Banic. The promoter has a very clear concept, and the concept is like this never to happen again to a person in the line of duty you've been doing, it's now Mr. Tomislav Saucha, that he never thinks again, so neither to him nor to anyone after him to do what you've been doing as head of the cabinet of the Prime Minister to almost on a daily basis call the editors of HRT and influence editorial policy. That is the concept of the legislator of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9962	We'll also hear the replica of a colleague of Joseph Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9963	My replica will, of course, be more like the correction of the quote my first because part of the intervention is the fact that yesterday on the board we have shown very well in what very facts supported by the government's governance crisis. It is also mentioned that there are journalists with censorship imposed silence. That there are controversial contracts, that procedures are conducted so that I don't repeat what was said. It just wouldn't be a good idea to create an impression that the HRT is a good condition so that this law doesn't need to, but needs a status quo. The second point is, multiple allegations in the evaluation discussions that the past law was good. I've obtained that opinion and I suggest the Ministry put it on its website. Because the opinion respects and says that it was good because of the agreement being reached, and says and this proposal that has been submitted to me says is a bit of a waker, only a little bit worse and says below and quote and this follow-up to the implementation of the Croatian government will have to show sensitivity, sensitivity. ... We'll see about that, but it's not an argument against the law. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And even then, since the other items of that opinion are mentioned, they refer to the earlier bill, it is obvious from the text, not what you have before you. Therefore, it would be good for the public, not for the media to misrepresent it, to be informed exactly about this opinion and not to be manipulated with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9964	We're continuing the debate. Too late, too late, Comrade Banic. We're continuing the debate. Individual debate, distinguished representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9965	... But the lady is too late. [[/The speaker's not on, he doesn't understand.]] Here's the thing, all day long we've had a chance on one side to really hear one demagogy, a complete political demagogue that says we have to be in good faith that HTV won't be put under political control, HRT, I apologize. Because it's not just about television, it's about HR, and some of the jobs on HR are pretty close, and even when they were reading certain news and they knew that they were under political pressure because they had to read news that they never agreed on, especially writing comments that were commendable to the authorities at the time. However, the biggest concern at the heart of things is Croatia's television, which is both the center of political and social and cultural life, at least so should be, so our satisfaction, information, enlightenment, understanding of the world's local events, and the vast majority of the free time ends with this very medium. The way we get information through that media is a lot of decisions about the state of consciousness, so I'd say the whole nation, the whole state. If the work of television leads to one mediocrity of one technical neglect. Then it is not a matter, therefore, and the way the director of Croatian broadcasting will be elected, but above all the way, the way of business. No matter who is in that position, management, the director must bear his responsibility, to any dubiosis, losses, etc. which Croatian television or Croatian radio television has achieved. So, one is the financial situation, and another is the management and political intention, in this case the ruling majority, and above all, the Social Liberal Party of Croatia, or the SDP, which turned into a neoliberal party to become, that HRT becomes a political colony. We heard here and copies of the quotes from last session, or the session of the Parliament from last term. And this is just proof that here in the Assembly many MPs often disagree with their own opinion because something that was worth managing Croatian Radio Television a year ago and by choosing the director, I think it should be worth it now. Especially the demagogue, so I would say and it sounds crazy that individuals, therefore of the ruling coalition, are afraid and are against this law, because the whole debate that the relationship was directed against such a bill, but they themselves from a pay phone on behalf of the clubs said they would still support the law. So, what it is, it's demagogy, or the people are selling something, and I'm not going to say what's being sold instead of kidneys. So in 2000, i.e. in that term from 2000 to 2003, that cathedral of the Croatian Spirit, and I was one of the few who said that the former director of Vrdoljak, that he made films better than he was director of Croatian Radio Television. Well, he was even a better actor than the director of Croatian Radio Television. But therefore, this cathedral of the Spirit, which was valid in the 1990s, and I especially believe that such television was necessary during the Homeland War, especially in that time until 95, excluding those political things that were then tied up. And it really wasn't too much democracy on Croatian television at the time. But for the defense of the Republic of Croatia, it was also good to have one such cathedral of the Croatian Spirit. In 2000, this cathedral of the Spirit, i.e. state television, is transformed into public television, which should be a virtual service of information to all citizens. Television that should monitor all public content, from that race of pirates and cultural events, from the race of pirates in Metkovic to the Vinkovci autumns and Đakovci bonds. And that is why I believe that, and as mayor, I have several times, and also the parliamentary representative warned the Program Council that it is unacceptable and uncultural to have no direct transfer of the Đakovci bonds as one of the greatest manifestations. That all Croatian radiotelevision teams then acidified their feet in the sea or recorded during the opening or solemn tours of the circuits, filmed two young men jumping into the Blue Lake and made a contribution that was in the central diary. So we can talk about the program, we can talk about why they don't shoot shows like Little Mister. Why is the program crawling with Mexican soaps, why it's swarming with suspicious quality shows, etc. etc. Why some houses record and produce for Croatian television, and co-productions are paid so much further. But I am saying that Parliament should also discuss here a full report on the work of Croatian television, which should be submitted by the Director both financially and programmeally. So right now, the SDP is turning from the concept of public television, and it needs to be said to the public, not to the state, but to the party. She wants to be a little beautiful, she wants to be a little more liberal, the neoliberal will depend on the presidency's will, and I would say to the president himself or those close to the president, not to say and in any way close. So it may occur to us that then I, Miroslav Liliæ, was all weepy, as I recall when the greatest son of our people and people died. So it was really heartwarming and watching, the tears poured out. All HTV viewers at that time, Mr. Djurovic, I got one pedagogical warning because I said something about the president, but that's now a thing that's not for television and I can confirm it to you by my parents, so don't interrupt me behind as I speak. So, it may happen to us, here today our beautiful, dear, esteemed President Mr. Milanovic went to open and set up a cornerstone, as some of his predecessors did, for school, for the hospital. It was a question of who wanted which stone cornerstone and that simply the entire Croatian regiment including all Croatian citizens and citizens, all members of the national minorities frenetic clap during the central journal. But that won't be enough, we'll have a diary plus, we'll have special reports. So this programme will take place instead of this current night programme until dawn, and then we'll see how this president is embroiled by the hard work he's been doing, how he wakes up in the morning, and how individual government officials fill their working day. This is what this party television will look like in which the opposition will have no insight into the work of the director, nor will it appear on any information show, in any contact show, nor will its voice be heard at all. It is probably until the appointment of the new director last transfer of the Croatian Parliament and this afternoon because the topic is really about...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9966	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9967	I'll finish. And I'd beg you to give me a replica if I could answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9968	The incorrect quote will be corrected by Mr. Jasen Mesic. You're out of time, counselor. You're out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9969	No, no. I see, I see. You're not that up-to-date when your folks talk longer than the time I'm not surprised.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9970	The incorrect quote will be corrected by Mr. Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9971	I just wanted to say that it's not about the pirate race in Metkovic, it's about the race of ships and boatmen. So there you are, little one. But since we care about one and the other, here's to culture and the transfer of the Giakovia circuits, I mean, here's just as much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9972	The distinguished representative Dinko Buric will replicate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9973	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Reading the report on the draft legislation submitted to the Assembly by the Committee on Information, Information and Media then, in connection with what counterpart Vinkovic was saying, it literally states that it is important to improve the functioning of HRT and external control over the implementation of laws and contracts through the Regulatory Authority of the Electronic Media Council. On this occasion, I would remind myself again of the illogicalness that we were talking about and during the last week's appointment of the same Council, because it turns out that only the citizens of Zagreb and Rijeka are paying the charge of Croatian broadcasting, and the citizens of all Slavonia and Baranja and the whole of Dalmatia have nothing to do with it, nor are they allowed to participate in the supervision of the Croatian Radio Television programme. I remind you that four members from last week's Zagreb and three members of that regulatory body from Rijeka are members. None from all of Slavonia and Baranja and neither from Dalmatia nor from any other part of Croatia. This bill also says that it is trying to re-design the management of Croatian radiotelevision by electing the Director-General, the Programme Council, the Supervisory Board, etc. The problem is in the process, that's exactly what the problem is. That's what we've been stressing all along. The election process is a problem. The ruling majority of the election, the ruling majority, you give a report, the ruling majority can resolve you if it is not satisfied with the report and what you have done You have to be foolish not to exercise the politics of the ruling majority. [[Intruder Stazic: Time!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9974	The replica will be answered by the esteemed representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9975	My dear colleague, you're absolutely right. Indeed, someone should be foolish, someone he appoints not to do what he wants. Well, that's clear to those sparrows on the branch. I would say that by saying that the new headmaster will be so demented, he will have a large salary and will have to do what the government tells him to do. But as ugly as that sounds, the worst of the program ham that we've ever witnessed is not only clapping from Croatian broadcasting but also from other televisions, and that program ham is less toxic than the poison of political manipulation, and we need to be aware of that. And my colleagues from the SDP, it won't be time before I get this vice president angry, my colleagues from the SDP should be clear to them that what we now have that suggested HDZ a year ago, not that they wouldn't be hurt by groins, but that they would get out of this assembly, demonstrate, do what was done around radio 101, and now they're selling a demagogue that they want to or not want to put Croatian radio television under their paws. They're gonna put it on and we're gonna watch what I said. We're going to watch and wake up presidents and lunches, watch speeches, not just watch us take a little bike, make two laps, but that TV is going to blush, but not from SDP's color, but from shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9976	They're also going to rephrase the esteemed colleague Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9977	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Vinkovic, here you have just said that on the side of the ruling majority they are selling us demagogy. I totally agree with that. They're asking us to believe them, to believe them that they actually didn't want to pass such a law, but they had to, but to believe that they were actually very pure intentions will respect the profession. You know, they were probably trusted by the director of Klovic's court that she was doing well, that she was professional and was not a member of the HDZ. Well, let's not talk about the director of the archives in Osijek. But what happened? E came the corn tsunamis and they all flew away. So much for that belief. And what's gonna happen is, here's who's gonna call who. Well, he probably won't intervene anymore, so he'll call Ibler Square himself and ask for approval for every journal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9978	And this replica will be answered by Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9979	Well, you're right, pal. The thing about faith is that it's an individual. And the Constitution says that freedom of faith, religion is guaranteed to every citizen of the Republic of Croatia. Well, as a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, I believed among other things, I really didn't believe they wouldn't collect gas, electricity, fuel and all the rest of it. And God has convinced me of this belief, so now I may even be thinking of becoming an agnostic, not telling you an atheist. But it has nothing to do with my Catholic faith, but I don't trust them anymore and most of the citizens of this beautiful Croatian country don't believe it because that plan 21 doesn't exist. We've got a 25, 35 plan, and the question of how many of these plans are going to be, it's not written in invisible ink. But to be clear, you had a couple of years ago and a guarantee card. Now they're out there, and they'll see how it comes out. But I never go back to the past, nor do I care what happened in 2000, or in the 1990s, but first of all, I want to know what's going to happen tomorrow, and from tomorrow, or from the vote of this bad law, we get not the state's but the party's television. I don't have anything against Gordana Grbić, but I believe she might come back, too. Because she's one of the ones that I'd say and unjustly remove from the programme back in the '90s. But it's not illogical to do that. So, we've got a red party TV waiting for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9980	In the follow-up of an individual debate, we'll hear a colleague named Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9981	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's to a fellow Stier's sentence now spoken, they're asking us to trust them. I'm just asking how? I think we can all suspect for a reason if because of nothing else, then because individual parliamentary representatives so easily change their beliefs, their statements and, unfortunately, they are the most contradictory of themselves, and that is why we are witnessing here because of the few quotes we have heard in relation to the still existing law. What is only good at adopting these amendments to the HRT Act is that it goes in regular procedure in two readings and that we may believe that the Proposer of these amendments will take into account all of what is said today in this Assembly... all the suggestions of the professions which this law is concerned and will then implement all of this into some new version of the amendment to the Law on HRT which we will have at the second reading. I said believe maybe because it's really hard to believe and not because we don't want to, not because we don't all think the same thing here, maybe believe is exclusively about the examples and practice that we witness in every vote and debate about any proposal or law in this assembly in our near history. So we're having a discussion, so we want to come up with the best solution. All the things we hear here today are not at all personal to a constructive debate, it is not like the will that all of us have the same goal, which is public television, independent journalism and accurate information. Information is today the most important resource. Because of some information, we react precisely because of the truthfulness of the information we make the decisions we make. That information that the citizens hear has no right to influence and not to. We heard today that this proposal to amend the Law on HRT is a test to the government and the ruling majority. To assess something, we need time. I wonder, do we have it? Do we have time to deny the public the truth that is happening because of the lack of information that is important to the citizens? Yesterday on a day show on HTV One, there was an open phone for viewers, so here's the episode I'm going to use in this debate. One viewer resented HT for not informing and not informing citizens about what was happening today or yesterday in the area of Mark's square with the workers of Dioki. He resented that HTV does not publicly criticise the government in the pre-election campaign, which promises that gatherings will be possible for citizens in Mark's square, and that now defends it. They're citizens' grudges and they're grudges with the right. How many citizens in Croatia know the decision-making scheme on HRT? What they are interested in is accurate and timely information and they have the right to do so and not only because of the fee they pay but because they are citizens of a democratic society. We often like to call on the EU's recommendations to Europe's opinion on our decisions, but it turns out for all of this today that what we've heard is only in what suits us. How many emergency procedures have we had in this House because of Europe? Why don't we listen to her now or hear her? Europe wants everyone to participate in the appointment of public television leaders. With this proposal, the Director has a very high authority and is responsible for a lot of things. But he would have to be the sole manager who cares and takes care of HRT's business but not in editorial policy. That policy should be decided by a profession which would therefore be responsible. Why are we neglecting our knowledge again? In our so-called knowledge society, we marginalize that knowledge whenever we can, wherever we can and however we like. The parliament simply needs to determine where this is the limit to the responsibility of the profession and the responsibility of the policy. Today, we justify this amendment to the law by a crisis on HRT. Did we really detect that crisis? What nature is she? Financial, editorial or whatever. And why and who is the crisis? Always because of people or individuals, someone who makes wrong decisions, someone who plays the law, someone who takes advantage of the situation for his own benefit or for the benefit of a few of the same-minded. Who today because of the crisis on HRT fits? We've heard that documents and evidence of non-compliance exist, but whoever answers or carries certain sanctions because he didn't respect exactly that law that is currently in force and that we've heard about several times that he's as good as he is. Do they have existing bodies that closed their eyes to the truth that took place any responsibility? Of course they do. And could we say that there's a problem in them or in us when we know it all and we're not doing anything? It turns out, in a practice like this, that no one will ever answer. When we pass the time of exams and tests of this government regarding the amendment of the HRT Act and when we realize that these changes to the law did not lead well, who will answer? A policy that has been set up in this way by the Director-General or by the Director-General who does not satisfy politics. No one is likely to change a new power by the moment, and when the new power comes, we will easily change the HRT-U Act once again. Practice shows us this debate today in which we have not once claimed that the existing law is good but has caused a crisis. And instead of implementing the legal provisions of this good law in practice, we simply change that law because we want to see how we pass the test. But what we haven't defined or heard here today is what are the sanctions or what will be the sanctions for failure on that exam.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9982	We have three replicas reported to this exhibit. First honourable representative Zoran Vinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9983	Dear colleagues, this law really needs a political consensus, a consensus of all parties here in the Croatian Parliament, but also a consensus of the entire Croatian society because it is not a company for planting flowers or for the Ministry of Research and Waste of Time, it is not even about what, although this is absolutely no wonder for me, nor for those who will be hired under the pretext of responsibility for three, four years without competition, without professional preparation, but through political resemblance, I am afraid that the director of HRT would not have, or have no such preparation, but in any case will have political similarities. And if we really want the Croatian Parliament to appoint the director of HRT, then I don't see any reason why it should not be decided by the 2/3 majority in this House. Because remember, the one who has the information he has the authority, and I can't imagine a society where we'll live again that the on-call synoptist or meteorologist has to pull out his cell phone and call the nearest committee and ask if the weather is cloudy to say it's cloudy, that it's on a Croatian cyclone or whether this law is preparing a hurricane. Only time is changing and my desire is for this law to be completed and that it really is necessary for the Parliament to decide, but 2/3 of the majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9984	The replica also brings up the distinguished representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9985	Thank you. Dear colleagues, you said the only good thing about this is that it goes in two readings. I agree with you, and it would really be very good if we finally benefited from it and accepted some of these remarks that are made in this first reading for the second reading. But let's not kid ourselves, what's put into the two-reading procedure is just tossing dust in the eyes of the entire Croatian public, a simple show of the ruling that here they want to give a chance to have a discussion, to get to know the public, and the real truth is that they already know who's going to be the head editor and who's going to be the editor-in-chief and what the shows are going to look like, but it's still not published because it's waiting for the law to be passed. Or the headmistress okay. And it's said here and the esteemed colleague Kregar was also saying, it says in the European Commission's report, just a little bit worse, but I'd be happy to write a little better, because it's a little worse than what we have right now. It's not a step forward, it's a step back. And it's a little worse than the existing one. And finally, dear colleagues, you said you wanted to know what the sanctions would be for not implementing this. Very simple. If the Director-General or the Director-General, the editor-in-chief or the editor-in-chief does not execute and the rules on programmes will be subject to the ruling sanctions, at the latest on the first report, perhaps sooner, but the ruling one must make sure that they also bear sanctions in the next elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9986	This replica will be answered by the esteemed Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9987	Thank you, dear colleague. I didn't mean sanctions on the editor-in-chief or editor-in-chief, but I thought what would be the sanctions for the government that is today, we heard here in the Parliament, said it was a test for her and that the adoption of such a law is in this form nothing but a test for our government.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9988	And the third last replica, distinguished colleague Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9989	Dear Vice President, dear colleague Tyrelli. Two readings is just a form, there's no content. So let's say a few months ago, a lot of media reported that HTV was ruled by Labourists and that HTV was going to be ruled by Labourists and then we're hiding behind it all. Now it was seen that it was manipulation and manipulation of whom, most of them, to gain time. The plantation, let the Labourists be guilty, let them spit on them. The opposite effect was caused. Just work for us. I have a suggestion. Best set up for chief volunteer director, now they're popular volunteers, he's the cheapest, 1600 kunas and testing in the Old Fijaker, that's our closest. You spoke on yesterday's show, the editor-in-chief of yesterday's show when he wondered what happened to his promise to the Kukuriku coalition that he would allow in Mark's square protests didn't tell the truth. The truth is, the question has been raised. Either he doesn't know or manipulates. Will there be any sanctions against whom if it still takes six months, and that's possible. If it's going to intervene, on TV every day, it's being manipulated on HTV, it's getting consecrated on HTV every day, it's threatening the HTV Assembly every day. Look, they're threatening the Parliament. I've done it a few times, but nobody cares. And the question of whether the editors will be responsible for mobbing over the press. Watch out there is terror, they change, they scare you, they threaten to quit, they invite you to coffee, and they talk on those coffees if you don't work for us, you won't be on the screen anymore, we'll take the shows. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9990	We're continuing an individual debate. Dear Representative Nikola Vuljanic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9991	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister. The law changes when it doesn't work, no one changes a horse that runs well. So it's no good, it's not a good situation on HRT, it's not good software. The program is boring, less and less observant and less viewed as the indicators and tests say. The program is unambitious, the best thing that happens is that horror of the wedding show. The program doesn't have a plan, you don't know what it wants. ... Yeah? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's a bad financial situation. Money's being spent on hats and fists, and the state's attorney says they're driving in the back now. So much money is being thrown and placed in private pockets that even some trials at the County Court in Zagreb are shadowing it. The programme, i.e. Croatian TV, is a bad and humane situation on HRT. That's what we're all convinced of. People who are interesting, people who are intellectually challenging, journalists who have something to say to the public, who are critical of the authorities – so what kind of good journalist would be who is not critical of the government?!, these journalists are moving from the screen, pushing into the second plan, and the first plan comes to mediocrity which is a common unfortunately practice in Croatia. Croatian television is not the exception. The mediocrity is our specialty. We could export it. The situation is bad, they say politically. HDZ's holding all the places. Which is true. They've got HDZ's all over the place. And now we're gonna change the situation. How are we gonna change it? So the principle and the already tried, trained principle that all mind is concentrated in power. All mind is concentrated in this coalition and this coalition knows best how to kill dogs who are not angry and who should rule television, there is no dilemma all the best they know and for all they have an excuse and all they know is right. That prolonged land of knowledge, the society of knowledge, we don't need it. You know where knowledge is, all knowledge is there, and now the party will apply that knowledge. And what changes in the law? Before and above all, the way people are appointed changes. The director is appointed by the parliamentary majority, so the practical government can say it openly. Most Parliament thinks what the government thinks, it's not the other way around. We don't have a situation for Parliament to control the government, the government to control Parliament, and that's the truth. So, the principal appoints a government. What's he doing? He makes a deal with who? With the government. The implementation of this agreement, the contracts are actually controlled by the Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board has appointed this Parliament again, so the government. The Supervisory Board can also encourage if the contract is not implemented and the Director's replacement is not carried out, so the Government, the Parliament, the Government, I don't know if the Director will be replaced anymore. So, there's no situation here for cadiya to judge and cadiya to sue. Kadiya judges here, the cadiya sues, the cadiya paints the courtroom, the cadiya carries coffee to everyone in the courtroom, the cadiya does everything. This, ugly word, this is the best way of totalitarianism and rounding up a whole problem in the hands of a group of people. What is the result of such conduct? Instead of getting public, I'd say political television. Politically, in terms of the political democracy that brought us here where we are. The global crisis has highlighted this, but in this complete carnival in which Croatia is located, we have been brought into partocracies and the fact that the parties are both the two and the third most smart and the best they know, they decide everything, and then they collect it, of course. Some are now responding in court, some are just going to answer the same. So we're getting political television that won't upset the government of either the first prime minister or the first prime minister, or the second prime minister, or any minister. Which will always give things in the right light as she gave yesterday night reporting on loans that poor Spain raises with, or selling bonds with a desperate interest, a 7% death interest. Our finance minister sold bonds very successfully with a 9% interest. Now that's what's going on and it's going to happen to us in the media. And we'll be convinced after a while that 9 is less than 7, if that happens to us again enough times we'll believe that 9 is less than 7, 9 is a success, and 7 is a terrible disaster. So it's going to be according to everything the government's broadcasting says here. Well, somewhere in some countries in the world, governments have their own public messages, so we might as well have ours. Why not? Let them say that, here's the Law on Government Radio. And we solved the problem. We'll vote him in 15 minutes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9992	We have three replicas on this exhibit. First honourary representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9993	Thank you. My dear colleague has a lot of things I agree with you, but there's one I don't agree with, and I'm going to start with her. Yeah, you called that show about Udba's disaster. On the contrary, there should be countless such shows that will expose communist crimes that have been hiding so strongly for decades. Maybe that's exactly the kind of show we've got today because we have this bill of law that we have today. You know, I'm afraid it might happen very quickly that instead of religious shows, we get shows about gay rights, so that we can get a situation to watch the reruns of Partizan films suddenly, and "Fourrred" the third and fourth episodes banned in 2000 by Racan's then government when she came to not look at the Croatian public, not to mention that there is no rerun of it. And I agree with you when you were talking about twisting the thesis. Yeah, you're really going to get in the position of being able to say it, so 9 is really better than 7, like you're trying to say right now. A little bit worse, so what you're complaining about doesn't matter what's supposed to be a little bit better. It reminds me of that famous sentence, and I think that if this proposal passes, and unfortunately better it will, very quickly on Croatian Radio Television we will be able to listen to, something like that famous sentence by Minister Mata Church of the Racan Government: "The citizens of Croatia are already better alive, only that they are not aware yet."
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9994	Time. This replica will be answered by a respected colleague, Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9995	Just for a little while. On account of that show, I gave up one court of law. I think it's criminally badly done, and that's how I rated it, I didn't grade the content because I think that such content should, of course, appear on public television. Contents from all sides, as well as partisan films should appear, but these content should also appear. I just said that it was criminally poorly done in the context of Croatia's evaluation and ratings. If public television with virtually unlimited resources can launch something like that, then it means that no one's alive taking care of it, so badly done, I think it means that no one's alive taking care of where the money's being spent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9996	Replicate wants a respected colleague, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9997	Thank you. That I wanted to replicate the same thing as Agent Buric. You said your court of law was that it was a horror of the Udba show, that's what you said. I think it is not a horror, but thank God that such a show has already been recorded in the Croatian state once. It's a pity it took so many years to record such a show in the first place. And on the continuum of that show a few days ago, news appeared about how Minister Vesna Pusic in Germany negotiated that, the Germans are asking to abolish the teleopers that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has just done today, of 6% and in return Vesna Pusic asked to withdraw Interpol's driver for Perkovic and Mustac. So we'll see if the second part of that contract will be realised as Croatia has achieved its share of the contract today and has abolished 6% of the teleoperators' tax. When we brought it in, we said it would be until Croatia's entry into the European Union, here's how long has it been? Two, three months, four, and right now that 6% of teleopers tax has been abolished. When it comes to HRT, we mentioned the content itself, the quality of the program. And I mentioned, I will once again mention the series of Heroi Vukovar, the third part of that series, which is the most visible documentary series according to the data available, from what has been recorded since the Croatian state was established on HTV. The third part of that series, HTV did not want to buy or show, and of course we watch all kinds of Partisan movies forever.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9998	And this replica will be answered by the respected Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u9999	And once again, I think that not only is this show about Udba and most of the program made by Croatian broadcasting is actually a financial disaster. Finally, that's what the state's attorney is showing. Because the quality of that program is so that a man of reasonable intelligence can hardly follow it without opposition and without multiplication, if you will. I don't mean to say that I can't show up on TV and programs that don't suit me, that don't suit you. Public television is exactly what it serves, and what is now happening to certain parts of the program, certain parts of the information will simply be left out. He won't have to order the editor or the principal what to put in, what not to put in. He will know, he will know what he is past, which does not fit those who set him up, and that is the greatest tragedy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10000	I leave to hear another replica of respected counterpart Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10001	Dear Vice President, dear colleague Vuljanic. I fully agree with you that the show about Udba's poor craft quality, what Manikas products wouldn't comment on. First of all, it's good that such content should be. The tasks of Croatian Radio Television, that we should listen to about the crimes that took place after 2. The World War and that Croatians have the right to know about it. But at some other level, it should be done by professionals. If the program was getting more infancy, I also agree. It should be known that journalists are dogs guardians of democracy, that's one famous definition of journalism. And journalists, the government should always know the opposition except in Croatia, on Croatian radio. It is now legal that they must not be disputed, that the EPH, too, yes. Kadija, you told your colleague Vuljanić, the cadiya does everything, it's true, and most smokes foreigners in power, so predict laws. Cheerleading journalism will unfortunately take primate on television, we're afraid they'll take primate, we can't know in advance. But there's a legal possibility, so let's stop law enforcement, why let it go, why are we afraid of freedom, why don't I believe it? Besides, I repeat another example, he mentioned it here in four rows, and you also took one film that needs to be known in Bleiburg what happened. But again the level is, I would like Croatian directors to make much better films about this Croatian historical period. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10002	The replica corresponds to the respected Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10003	Why are we afraid of freedom? So because freedom is unpleasant, and boring, and it knows the bite, it knows the words of things that we don't like to hear, it knows especially mild to power, it can point to what we don't want to see. But they shouldn't be afraid, journalists in Croatia, and they're not all born in the last 20 years. There are many of them that we inherited from the previous state, as we all inherited, we all inherited from there. They've already been trained, so this sort of thing with these 7 and 9%, I don't think anyone from the government said look, say that Spain is scary with 7 and that we're good with 9. You don't have to tell that to reporters like that. What is sad is that such journalists are making progress on Croatian television.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10004	We continue with an individual debate, so I give the word to a respected colleague, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10005	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So, in the course of the debate so far, we've heard a lot or almost everything. It's good to repeat, of course, because we've heard the strength and power of repeating not seven, that it's stronger than nine and 15 can be, and we've witnessed it in the past. We've heard repetitions many times, so on the left. We even heard applause and approval about certain things, and today it was forgotten. I'm not going to repeat here today, but I remember that main message from the promoter and on the left that this is about editing, it's about managing and financial editing. Well, it doesn't take much thinking that this is about managing, managing, and this is going to come in its own way. Because if someone doesn't understand it well from these editors or so it will be very clear to them that you don't fit into the software concept, etc. And you know why it comes to that? Because you haven't praised our achievements enough. You haven't clapped enough. Well, it doesn't take long to go back into history to remember who was the first one to die in some regimes. You know who was the first to die who stopped clapping first, but believe me, subscribers and citizens, and mostly those journalists who know a lot, who are educated, educated to whom this life is so you can't clap the increase in VAT, you can't clap 25. You can't clap the unemployment rate. He can't, let's face it, let's be honest. You can't clap the price of electricity, gas. He can't. You can't do that in any case. Well, here's me in my county of Koprivnica-Crying, which is where I come from, so we can't clap the announcement that the work on the sub-level is stopping. We can't! Well, the media university can't explain it to me, and all the experts that will come out of it can't explain it to me, where Jožini, Stefini and my resident. No one can explain it, and especially please my farmer, peasant. No one can explain to him that he is well at a time when, when his support has been cut, when the price of milk has fallen, when the support is not paid for and all the other circumstances that bring down the Croatian village. And now he's not going to be able to be dear friends, he won't be able to express his thought because he won't give him the opportunity to say and what's left of him? What's left of him is a tractor. And then eventually he's going to cause irritation again, and he's in trouble, he's in trouble to simply secure his naked existence. That's it. What are we now offered under these circumstances? What's to be offered? So one controlled information is offered very clearly from this read. There's a whole bunch of people out there, whatever they call it, we've heard all kinds of names here all over television. And you know what the biggest problem is? That what's inside we're paying television subscribers. Just believe that this cellophane comes off eventually. And today there are other ways of getting information. The citizens see it, they get it. There are certain things that cannot be explained to them, and believe that the bill will soon be charged. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10006	Thank you. We have three replicas on your exhibit. Representative Zoran Vinkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10007	You don't hear a thing. Well, here's an esteemed colleague, this cellophanic television isn't gonna be exactly a television set in decorative paper, but it's gonna be television, I think there's one example of such television in the world. I don't want to caricate at all. It's that North Korean TV. Dear leader Ki Mil Sung has died. That poor paymaster. I don't know if her garlic or red onions cut her in front of her to shed those tears. And she says lived the new leader Ki Mil Jong. And it is really not a cartoon or cartoon of what can happen with Croatian Radio Television. For indeed, behold, I remember those essays and those travellers of the Malnars in Globus and the President of the Pestnica, and it could indeed be so when the president says and the anthems of the Pestice good morning, my people good morning, and the people answer something else than what he does not want to hear the leader or party in power. So I warn that we do not really do from Croatian television political prostitution, that we do not do from public television public house, but that we do all together here in this Croatian Parliament realize that, because what is now going to be a year or two for parties in power that it will be the most devastating for them very quickly and that we are not making political service out of public television, but that we really have public television, not party, not state, but public.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10008	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica by Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10009	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Vinkovic and I realized here today from the debate, they said these changes would also boost creativity. I wanted to give the same one of my creative contributions to this thinking. So, to be sure, that's one of my own, even though I'm more in favour of your thinking. But this kind of persuasion on the left also reminds me of the hunting, you know, the tiger hunt. When they catch the cat and beat him until he admits to being a tiger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10010	Thank you. You have announced to your colleague Vinkovic a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I'm listening.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10011	Article 214 was not hunters but Montenegrins.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10012	There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, so you abused the Rules of Procedure. We have another replica of the opening presentation of MPs Ruža Tomasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10013	Thank you very much. You told your colleague Milinkovic you couldn't clap electricity, gas, etc. Well, you can't clap. I agree with you especially when you pay for what you don't get. The letter I received from the locals from Pupnat, from the island of Korčula, which says that for several years I can't watch TV, I can't watch Croatian TV, and they keep getting bills for it. And he says the absurd gets bigger as it's already listed in... TV tower transmitters and... where they don't want to mount the tracking equipment for the digital program. And when they said they weren't going to pay them neatly, they sued them and took their money out of their accounts neatly. He says against people who refuse to pay a TV fee, they start a forced charge. It is noteworthy that prosecutors, transmitters and connections d.o.o. in court, they argue that watching TV programs is not important for paying for a TV subscription. So when someone gets the money and doesn't bother with it, they don't even respect it. And do you know how hard it is to live on islands especially in winter when there's no one around and it's the only thing people have is to watch TV. So I'm going to hand this protesting note over to the minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10014	Thank you. We have a response to your replica, Agent Stjepan Milinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10015	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Tomasic, I absolutely agree with you so you can't clap what you can't. That's very clear. But surely for compassion with these viewers who experience such hardships and have to pay. They don't get the information, but here's how we pay, and we get the wrong information a lot of times, so that information changes the next day, it's completely different. Here we heard on all the bells yesterday Mr. Linic's announcement that the government would enter Dioki's ownership structure. And today here he says on the portals live from the Ban Courts, saying Minister Linic is misunderstood. Well, here's your credibility information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10016	Thank you. We have another replica of Representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10017	Dear Vice President, dear colleague Milinkovic. Just one supplement, you were talking about clapping, clapping, in Gulag ended up because he stopped clapping Stalin's high party official. That's what they're testifying... in the excellent part of the Gulag Archipelag clapped for 40 minutes. The poor guy just couldn't take it anymore if he didn't love Stalin, he loved him very much, but physically he couldn't. And the Korean leader cried sincerely. About not being able to watch Croatian television and other Croatian television on the islands is a serious problem. But it's inconclusive to the ministries, it's not serious to the Council for Electronic Media. A thousand 500 letters were sent to Italians that increased the frequency and disrupted our signals. Instead of acting like a sovereign state and picking up the signal. No, we're vasal in relation to Europe. We've been suppressed and depressed now, because Bruelles said don't step up. Yet the Italians are Italians and the law is similar to that practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10018	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica by Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10019	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Vuksic, I agree with you in this section. I've read the same thing, and there's really nothing to add. But in this part of the editors or these information programs, they certainly won't get such a radical punishment, but they'll get 700 days, a thousand days without a job. So what's that about today for that reporter, what does that mean? We're very aware of that. And that's why you really need to think about the power of that control that I was talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10020	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10021	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So, according to the Law on HRT adopted in 2010, it was adopted in accordance with the positions made in accordance with the commitments made from the negotiating positions and as such was one of the laws presented by the basis of which we signed the pre-accession contract. This bill is just another one in a series of amendments and additions to the laws which amend all those laws and all the moves that we have presented and which Europe has accepted and the basis for which the pre-accession contract has been signed. And that's why I don't know how we're gonna show our face in front of that Europe as credible. I know that you may answer me that in this part of the amendments to the law that is now proposed there is actually no European acquis and that is correct. There's no acquis like they don't have in almost all of Chapter 23. Justice and fundamental rights have no acquis there is no legal gain to implement but there is therefore a request or a demand to achieve certain democratic standards specifically on the judiciary we will later talk about independently and efficiently and professional justice, and here certain democratic standards, protection of public interest and freedom of the media, and we have presented all of this precisely with the text of the law that we passed in 2010. And this law has really achieved a very high degree of depoliticalisation of public television, radio television, the complete absence of the influence of political options both on staffing and on public television. The law was passed in 2010 by consensus. We all commended him here because he predicted that the basis of the public tender according to the legal criteria set out here in the Croatian Parliament should be chosen by the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council and that it should be taken care of the world's horizons and political options and that the opposition should be consulted in all these processes of making a decision on the appointment of members and the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board. Thus, the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board were elected by the two-thirds majority, and the Programme Council appointed and resolved the editor-in-chiefs and editors-in-chiefs in certain areas on the basis of a public tender on a proposal from the administration and in the opinion previously obtained by editors and journalists. And another programme council under that law was chosen with the task of representing and protecting the public interest in the conduct and exercise of control over the work of the administration. This is exactly what had to be done and therefore, the existing law still provides that no one in any way dependent on HRT could be financially, whether it was in a working relationship, as it is proposing to amend this law. Here we are now listening and from Madam Minister we have heard that there has been a governing crisis in HRT, a financial crisis, that the law is not implemented, that the law is good but that it is not applicable and that this is why this law needs to be amended. And I'm asking why she's not having fun. The law exists, there are all mechanisms to be implemented, there are ways of doing what is prescribed by that law. We heard somewhere in this debate from someone who may know something more or some body has received such suggestions that it is actually a real crisis that everyone in these bodies has submitted proposals for resolution to each other. Well, the solution is very simple, you have to follow the law to the end. You have a current law in front of you, you have provisions that seem to me to be Articles 27 and 18 which speak for reasons and how and who resolves members of the Supervisory Board and the Programme Council and therefore should consistently implement the laws and persons who are not able to function, change the persons who will function and implement this law, and those who have resigned also on their own request to resolve it. I don't see why it hasn't been through all these months. We don't see it, but it does say something else. He says the law has been passed, that it is good, but because of the way individual powers are shared between the HRT body and their detour, there has been a problem in functioning. What would then be expected to include the proposal for this amendment and supplement law, we would expect, in accordance with what it says in its explanation, to propose amending the law in a way that regulates and distinguishes the section between the Programme Council, the Supervisory Board and the Management and to clearly determine who does what if it was a problem. But no, it is not proposed but instead something else is offered, as counterpart Vuljanic said there is a law on VRT, so on government broadcasting, and not on Croatian broadcasting, because all the solution to the problem is seen both in the functioning and in the area, and the financial situation will be settled by offering what, instead of the administration, we now have a head director elected by the Croatian Parliament and by the half majority of all MPs. The director-in-chief will be appointed directly by political influence, and what is most important is this solution that he, apart from management powers, will be the manager, will manage, will worry about financial business, but with all this, he will make an independent decision on the editorial policy. How, by naming them completely free and by appointing the editors-in-chiefs and editors-in-chiefs in certain areas without a public tender. But in this too, the SDP and HNS will surely convince us that 9 is less than 7 because it has convinced us for six months that it is a more transparent and democratic procedure to appoint them without public competitions than with public competitions, because they are set up, and then it is better that this beautiful policy itself appoints them and that it is far more transparent and far more democratic. This and such director will have all the powers, many powers, editorial policy, governance, governance, finance, and will be appointed by the ruling majority. He will appoint his deputy, not knowing how and how, I don't know what that deputy will do, what qualifications he needs and what the criteria are, but of course we know that at any moment when the Deputy Director doesn't have the same great powers that he has and the Director himself is also proposing the directorship as one of the bodies. And look, please, there are three bodies of HRT, of which for two we have a composition, a number, a method of appointment, a detour, which works, but we have a directory that is just told by the law that it exists. Whoever is in it, how many members they will have, what they will do, will arrange it. So it's inadmissible not to settle it with this law. And in the end, it was incorrectly expressed here and by representatives of the SDP club, and by some of our representatives that public television must be dealt with by commercial television. This is completely incorrect because commercial television is the only goal of profit, and therefore it has to often raise the audience, raise it to be seen, to collect more advertisers, and public television can afford that luxury not to rise because there are payments guaranteed to it and revenues guaranteed by law, and that is why it has to implement everything that is provided for in Article 7 of this Law, which is primarily impartial and timely information. This is primarily a criterion of excellence and expertise, checking the sources of information, etc. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10022	Thank you. A representative named Nedzad Hodzic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10023	Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the National Minority Representatives Club, I am asking for a break of 10 minutes because I believe that today, in the discussion of Mr. Zoran Vinkovic, there has been an insult to the National Minority of Montenegrins that I represent, and I think we must comment on it and not allow this way to be used by speech, I would say both hatred and impatience towards members of national minorities. There are certain limits to which it can go, there are limits to which a certain rhetoric can be considered, but there are limits that must not be crossed in order to safeguard the integrity of this House. So I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10024	The word was answered by MP Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10025	The HDSSB Club is also looking for a break, and here I am, before the break, sorry if I was even going to offend any national minority or members of the national minority. It was just a correction of an incorrect quote because a fellow rep told a story about a tiger and it wasn't hunters, it was a joke about Montenegrins. Could have been bitters, shocks, or I don't know what. But here's the thing, if I've offended anyone, I apologize. But we're also looking for a 10-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10026	All right, I'll give you 10 minutes off. Mr. Hodzic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10028	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, we have no objective of media attention, we have no intention of interrupting and delaying the work of this Parliament, but our great aim is to protect the integrity of the Croatian Parliament. National minorities paid one terrible price for the creation of a Croatian democratic state. We'll talk about it in Parliament once, you'll hear things that you didn't even dream were happening, but we'll talk about it on another occasion. Dear fellow Vinkovic, your discussions are very nice to me and very often, but I think you have crossed one line this time and that I, as a representative of the other and of the Montenegrin national minority, had to react to that. I accept the apology that you've already made and I suppose you may still be presenting, but please, not just you, but all the representatives that we're making sure in the future that this is a civil society, that this is not a country of Catholic religion, that this is not a place where we can make jokes in a Montenegrin account or any other. So, not because it can personally offend someone, but because of their principled nature. What we can say at the bar, what we can say at the political rally, we can't do in this assembly. That's why I asked for a break. I don't need media attention. I come to this Parliament after 25 years of entrepreneurship, so I come from the Bosniak Democratic Party of Croatia which is a small minority party and I do not need media attention but only have the duty and obligation to preserve the integrity of this Parliament, whose member I am, but also the dignity of members of the national minorities. And so I ask you in the future, not just me, but when it comes to this kind of discussion, so do you who belong to other political parties. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10029	Thank you. On your presentation, we have a correction of the incorrect allegations, representative Ruža Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10030	Thank you very much. Well, this is the second time you've said that Croatia is not a country of Catholic religion. But if there's a majority of the Catholic population here and all of them, the most that have been determined to be Catholics, I don't know why you're bothered and you keep saying this isn't. It's like saying that Croatia is not a country of Croatian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10031	Thank you. Please welcome, on behalf of the HDSSB, representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10032	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Your esteemed colleague, not thinking that you were looking for a break to get attention, but I must say that I think at this point that the break was said to be unprovoked. But okay, I respect your attitudes and your opinions. It was a harmless one, maybe it was a bet, and I would say school to all of us, a reaction to a joke that was not told by my colleague Vinkovic, but by Agent Milinkovic. And he did it, Vinkovic just corrected it in the sense that a joke goes in the original. Well, I think if we're gonna get really mad, I don't think anyone in Croatia is mad if we tell jokes about Zagorje, about the shock, about I don't know we have jokes about Muja and Hasa, so I guess that won't be a reason to tell a joke like that to get offended. However, let me not go any further, my colleague Vinkovic apologized and we believe that you will accept this apology. No one from the HDSSB club is convinced to insult any national minority. The fact that we're sometimes sharp in our actions and what we're saying is what we think is our right, but we've never generalized. And when we talked about any national minority, we don't generalize now. But I have to react to your two findings. Highly esteeming the contribution of every citizen of the Republic of Croatia in creating its independence, its freedom and its independence in defence of major Serb aggression, a high appreciation of the contribution and of the Montenegrin national minorities in this, do not forget that the greatest sacrifice for the creation of an independent and independent Croatian state has been submitted by the Croatian people. And it's not right for you to go over that fact when you're reacting like that and shut her up. And she is also right to be a colleague of Mrs. Ruža Tomasic's representative when she reacts, and I will react to that, Croatia is a majority Catholic country. And I don't see why it would bother anyone who isn't a member of the Catholic faith in Croatia. We do not impose on anyone our own, therefore from this fact, we do not impose a sense of less value on anyone, but let us not allow the will of the minority to impose on the will of the majority. And I'm going to conclude, this break I think to the entire public who was watching this clearly was unnecessary to me. And in the future, when the jokes are spoken and the jokes are taken care of, we didn't tell him, but make sure we don't correct the false allegations then at least jokes. I hope you don't mind if we talk outside jokes about Muja and Hasa who are the most loved ones left in that former state. It's the way it is. My colleague Vinkovic said everything he had to say, and here on behalf of the club, I think that was enough, and I hope you'll accept that apology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10033	Thank you. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations, representative Nedzad Hodzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10034	There's more to be fixed now, I'd have to say good listen to what's being said. The other day we talked about the session we interrupted the session on the sentence that Croatia is a Catholic country. Croatia is governed by the Constitution and the laws of this country. And it doesn't say anything there. Of course it's majority, so that's what I said about the pay phone, most Catholic Croatian people I also have in my family, so nobody mind. But we want to return the discussion to a clean discourse where we don't want what we can say at political gatherings in the assembly. That's my intensity. This was a sentence now that they were offended hunters, because a colleague told a joke. At least I'll be angry when you talk about Moya and Hasa, but I'll tell you as much as you want, but I'm asking you to keep that coat of arms up and that year that's written we all respect. As for the number and the biggest victims, this is absolutely true, but in relative proportion, the biggest victims were submitted by the Bosniaks, because of the 1,000 Bosniaks died in the Homeland War 4, and of the 1,000 Croats 1. In relative...... Please, you'll say... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10035	It's a good time. Your time is up. We have 3 replicas reported for the presentation of Agent Anne Lovrin. Representative Zoran Vinkovic first called. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10036	Now we should remind me of what, right? ... So, here we go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10037	You can give up the replica if you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10038	No, I won't, I have a good memory, but this time I'll make sure I don't take a joke in my mouth because I really didn't mean to hurt anyone, and I didn't think the hunters were offended because there's a series of jokes about hunters. Is this a group of organized people who go the shortest way through the woods in a bar, and I hope now they don't get angry, and that someone from the hunting alliance won't be looking for a break. But let's go back to the main problem of this session of the Parliament, and let's apostrophe exactly what this is about, for example. And the National Minorities Club insists that this very public television that's in the bandages becomes party television. And that's the most dangerous thing that can happen. Not that public television is becoming state-owned, if the state is financed from the budget, if it is public, and for it is paid subscription and a large subscription, and I don't believe that this law will not result in an increase in that subscription because certain debts will be found, the current director, the current editor-in-chief, will need to be settled. Al counterpart Lovrin I will tell you who will be editors-in-chief on that television, Zoran Milanović, Radimir Cacic, Silvano Hrelja, Ivan Jakovčić, Cain will not be one of the editors because he is against the law, but will vote for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10039	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Agent Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10040	Yes, you told my colleague Vinkovic the editors-in-chief, but don't be mad about party TV like that, that's not it. It's your responsibility, you know, they're very responsible. We've been hearing for six months that no contest should be appointed, by similarity, because then we know who's responsible for what and who's responsible for what. And you mentioned Kim or Sang and his son or grandson Jong, and I'd say they're the most responsible. They decide for themselves, and they are responsible for everything themselves, and what kind of Korean television we saw the same thing the other day on an excellent Croatian television report. Thank you. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10041	Thank you. We have a report of a representative of Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10042	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleague Lovrin. You were talking about how it would be best if members of the Board and members of the Supervisory Board had filled in, in order to make it most effective, but I disagree with you. It can't be fixed, it needs to be changed. For what? Because you have mischoiced both sides, therefore both sides bear the blame because these two institutions in Croatia, the two bodies on Croatian television, subjugated their own personal interest, public interest, pardon, public interest, have committed their own interest. And everything they do today, the way that Croatian broadcasting is doing exactly testifys about it, what is not being repaired, it should be changed, but I agree that the easiest way was to change only the final provisions in the second, third month and to make a new law as it was agreed in the beginning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10043	Thank you. We have another replica, about an apology to the replica. There you go, Agent Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10044	Well, my colleague Vukusic, I'm sorry you don't agree with me because everything you're talking about, so I agree if it's wrong, it needs to be changed. There are mechanisms in the existing law, I said Article 27 and Article 18 on the resolution of members of the Supervisory Board and of the Programme Council, and this is exactly what you said you used your positions for personal interests, etc. This is one of the reasons for resolving the existing law, so they should have been resolved in this procedure, which is good, which is transparent and democratic, should have been chosen by new people.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10045	Thank you. We have another replica, Representative Zvonko Milas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10046	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here I am going to relate to what Mrs Lovrin is, but in part to what Mr Vuksic was saying about the direct Programme Council, or the Supervisory Board. So, in this House, it is in balance as it is legally elected, elected 6 members of the council, so the Programme Council from the position, i.e. from the opposition. And for the first time since there is a Croatian public television has been consensual with the committee of directors, so in the two-thirds majority, the governing bodies have been elected. The president of the administration, the management, was elected editors, according to the opinion and criteria, so creative staff as well as the law. After that, some of the members of the Council left the Council. I think, no matter what I don't doubt your good intentions at all, that we should simply enforce the law because we must send such a message to everyone. The law is that we respect him first and foremost, so that we may respect him, I return to Mrs. Lovrin, so that everyone who sees us will respect him. Therefore, the tender was to be opened, according to the competition there are new members and to release the Council which, first of all, is not a component, if we have 5 doctors of science in that council, of which 3 are from the media, 2 journalists, film directors, etc. etc. Then we can talk about the Council knowing what his job is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10047	Thank you. We have a response to the replica of attorney Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10048	... [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10049	Get the MP's microphone on.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10050	Excuse me. Therefore, that the law and those who do not exercise their duty under that law should have been dealt with. Here is why I will read what is one of the reasons for the resolution, and in the absence of the prescribed work of the HRT Council, it seeks to influence the publication of certain programmes. So you are not allowed to influence and promote your private interest, that is one reason for resolution.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10051	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Representative Dinko Bosnjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10052	Thank you, Honorable Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister, fellow MPs. The adoption of the proposed law will re-establish the management of the HRT so as to clearly regulate the selection process and the partiality of the individual HRT bodies, and determine the clear responsibility of the HRT Director-General for the operation and operation of the HRT as if this has not been regulated by the basis of the applicable law. Under the felt of increased responsibility and cover of increased control, efforts to take over the political takeover of Croatia's radio-television. How to interpret this differently when all bodies are elected by the political body of the Croatian Parliament, the directorate of HRT, the Supervisory Board. In a situation where in Croatia everything falls as our governor says it should not fall to our government, the primary goal is how to install its personnel at all levels of Croatian broadcasting, which will allow the coherent functioning of all bodies, as the promoter says. The amendments to the Law on Croatian Radio Television will run with honey and milk when they are called similar rather than capable. Believe me, gentlemen, none of the authorities will be able to help this one with the haired diaries and the paid emissions from taxpayers' funds. The primary goal of all governments is to enable a better standard for all citizens, not to deal with who will be the editor-in-chief of information emissions. In a situation where thousands of people are left out of work and many of them do not get paid, when local units due to the burden of crisis, the application of new tax laws are not able to finance the basic activity and their existence is questionable we are in the Croatian Assembly all day doing politicization of Croatian broadcasting. I think the Croatian Parliament, that is, the Croatian Government, which should prepare the laws has many more priority projects and programmes to contribute to the improvement of the entire Croatian people. Gentlemen, if new investments and new employment are not opened soon, there will be an even more difficult situation that would be unsustainable for this tormented people. Due to these above, the Croatian government should deal with more priority issues that are in the interest of improving all citizens, and not deal with politicisation that will in no way allow for a better life and standard for all Croatian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10053	Thank you. We still have some left, and, uh, excuse me, we have a replica of the representative of the Sun Head. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10054	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, buddy, you said it right. It seems to me that citizens are wondering what we're doing after all, 17 hours, that's all day in the Croatian Parliament. Why don't we talk about the issues that are vital to them? We are not involved in politicization, we are engaged in the creation of political television. That's a fact. The second fact is that again I want to point out we're repeating there's been a governance crisis, or financial crisis, so if the problem of demarcation was then the powers could differ, not change the way we choose. So that's one thing. The other thing is we haven't heard anything that would suggest new standards or improve the professional development of television. What we heard when a law like this was passed, and it's certainly going to be adopted because there are enough hands for it, it's going to be conducted television, and we're going to have to pay for it together. And so in the end he will no longer write the choice of Djelo Hadjiselimovic, but chose Zoran Milanovic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10055	Thank you. We have a closing word on behalf of the clubs. On behalf of the Croatian Labourers Representative Branko Vuksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10056	Vice President, distinguished ministers with an associate, distinguished ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. Here we finally heard a whole day's debate, a lot of opinions, a lot of similar opinions, even those that would raise their hands differently. I'd only have two questions in the end. Mrs. Secretary, who hasn't called today, didn't show up. I hope he answers those two questions. The first question is whether you can agree to parliamentary representatives' proposals to vote with the two-thirds majority director. The second question is whether you can accept the proposals made by the vast majority of parliamentary representatives that the opinion of journalists in the selection of the editor-in-chief is binding and that 50% plus one member of the programme unit on Croatian radio and that we do, however, take one step forward, not two steps back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10057	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club Jasen Mesic. He's gone. He's losing his right to the closing word. And on behalf of the HDSSB club, Agent Ivan Drmic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10058	Dear Mr. Vice President, honorary ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here in the closing statement I would like to say once again that the HDSSB club has not changed its mind, so during this debate, what you probably could have heard in the involvement of our representatives. It is evident that the changes to this law so far lead only to one goal, which is the desire of today's ruling coalition to put Croatia's broadcasting especially its information programme, which is only actually interesting to them under political control. We are not the only problem in Croatian broadcasting. The problem is the non-transparent spending of money. A billion and 500 million kunas are spent annually. So far, reports have not been transparent, there has been no real surveillance on Croatian broadcasting. The law, former law, or current law, was badly written and was not simply controlled by the spending of these funds. It is our conclusion that by amending this amendment to the law, the Kukuriku coalition will put television under political control but non-transparent spending of funds will continue. I would also appeal to a ruling coalition that if it were to be adopted by the common majority by this law, surely we would not be able to do anything out of opposition to stop it from thinking again because what they are doing is not good and will not help them to win the next election. Because if it helps today, the prime minister would still be Jadranka Kosor. You may fall asleep more peacefully after the 19.30 HTV Log or the third Dnevnik when you see your picture embellished on the informational program of HTV but will certainly further irritate citizens who know that this information program is not real and that it is about the wishes and measures of the ruling coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10059	Thank you. We're done with this part of the debate. I'd like to ask the Minister to speak in the end. Here you go, Madam Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10060	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. I would like to thank the Ministry of Culture, on behalf of the motionary of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and, in particular, the Ministry of Culture, for all today's contributions to the debate. At the very beginning, I will answer the basic questions raised in the first part of the debate, which concern media policy relations, media strategies and these changes and additions. Of course, as we talked to the committee yesterday, it is clear that in a situation of order, media policy and media strategy should precede any law-making. We have unfortunately found ourselves in a situation, and when I say I think of all of us not as those who act in the executive or legislative power but as HTV viewers and citizens of the Republic of Croatia in a situation to witness the work of HTV which is widely unsatisfactory. A series of these arguments were presented today, and I'm going to point out briefly. This is one big map that stands there for me so fat I didn't want to carry it with me just part of the correspondence that testifies the constant accusations between three instances, the administration, the supervisory board and the Programme Council, about their mutual requests for resignation, which shows that the law that exists is as good as the law on paper but whose lack is not in that it is not implemented but in that it cannot be fully implemented under today's conditions. I am most sorry, as my colleague Stazic and many MPs have said, because believe me, we would all be much simpler and easier if we could now deal with the overall strategy and policy of the media in Croatia because the number of problems you have opened today is very relevant from the status of printed media, the future of T- portals, independent media, non-profit media of everything that belongs simply to all Croatian citizens because of where they are today, because it is not about one throat but about more ways of getting information how they are informed today in a complex network of media. However, the situation is such that although the Ministry of Culture is not in charge and it is my assessment that the continuous filling of organs or committees that do not function in the scheme itself and for reasons that do not work because their powers overlap. It was not possible to separate powers without falling into the governance logic. And here's the key argument. In fact, the key to saying so is the lack of an existing law that made it impossible to implement and open the door to these unfortunately very often unproven actions such as clientelism, private interests, group interests etc. It consists of members of the Programme Council making quorum with supervisory powers in those areas for which they are not actually empowered by the logic of the election. That's why the idea of the law is that the Program Council is involved in software analysis. The programming report will be in front of you shortly. This programme report has 900 pages and will not be an easy bite for anyone, nor for analysis nor for its evaluation, not only because of the quantity but also because of the heterogeneity and the very contradictions that speak about the state of television. The financial report has not reached today, except for the period until 1.11.2011, of course, not for the current period. What I think is extremely important, and that is exactly what the changes are about. Because if you look at the Programme Council and the Supervisory Board are chosen in the same way as they are elected in the Assembly, they are chosen not by a simple majority but by a qualified majority. There are very clear regulations and a constitution that speak which laws should be chosen. This was discussed by fellow MPs who were addressed and, according to their profession, are lawyers who belong to the level of adoption by a two-thirds majority. In this case, it is about amendments and additions to one law and changes and additions that don't even touch the idea of public television. However, the public purpose of television and its programming tasks have been greatly improved in one of the first articles. Anyone who wants to look again can be convinced that three things have been included and further underlined that came from the resolution ministries. One is about the health programme, the other is about the programme of dignity and protected dignity of the Homeland War and the third is about strengthening the school programme and children's programmes. So that's the only part in which it's been complemented here and it's not to harm, but to benefit the idea of public television. All other mechanisms are retained except for the quotation mechanism between the position and the opposition. And this counting mechanism as it was present in the previous law here was replaced by a very clear statement, that, and in this we all have and you have the right to participate and participate in the bodies that are going through the decision-making process and here, that the election of members of the Programme Council will take care of world-era pluralism and other pluralism of Croatian society. We are aware that all decisions in the Croatian Parliament are political decisions, but that does not mean that they are political or that they work in favour of one option or part of political options. I think that the legal measures and security mechanisms that have been amended and complemented in this proposal are ensured by the programme report, with a very clear annual financial report that gives the Supervisory Board guarantees that the work of all television bodies will be fully transparent, that the reports will arrive regularly and that it will be clear who is responsible for what level. Because what happened I can really say believe in the best of intentions, it happened when everyone was responsible that nobody was responsible. When the members of the Programme Council were to become responsible for the overall reports, then, of course, it was that they were not able to participate in any of the areas of competence or task. And the first resignation, I'm not going to go to the whole chronology, the first resignation that fell to say so on the Programme Council has already fallen on 26.11. So before the election. So it's a process that hasn't started and isn't started with any political change, it exists from the very moment these bodies were founded and they started to function in an unsatisfactory way. I sincerely believe that in these next few days we will work on a clear analysis of all the proposals, comments and objections presented today, we will adopt them to the extent that they can retain the basic idea of this law, which is therefore a division of responsibility and division of powers. Of course they will, even though it's prescribed by the statutes, so it's not... By law, everyone will be elected by a public tender and there is no saying at all that it will be a appointment without public tenders, but that is, of course, in the text of the statutes, not in the text of the law, so it is not said. [[You don't understand.]] If necessary, it will be particularly highlighted because it can naturally cause great confusion. As for the end of the comments and relations, in fact, according to the comments and the observations that came from the European Commission. During the whole work on the proposal to amend and supplement the law we were in a continuous relationship with the members of the delegation in Zagreb. We do so now and in good faith as well as here that all comments and all suggestions are those made with the intention of making the law as high as possible and that it continues to provide but in a clearer way what is the purpose of public television. And as for the logic of the election itself, the chief director and the issue of democracy, I must say that in this implementation of the current and now existing law, democracy has been delegated so low that it has no longer had responsibility, that I think we must be aware that one of the fundamental democratic principles means that, by taking or accepting some powers, we also accept responsibility. And certainly all those who have said today that if someone takes the greatest risk by proposing and passing such a law are, of course, the promoters themselves or, as is often said today, the ruling coalition. We are all aware of this risk, and we know that the only criterion by which the HTV will be evaluated will be no statistics but will be the satisfaction of the viewer, and that is certainly what I must say today at a very, very low level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10061	I thank the minister. On your exhibit, we have two corrections to the incorrect assumption. Representative Zoran Vinkovic first came in, please. What are you doing correcting your colleague?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10062	I truly appreciate this entire day's stay of Madam Minister here in the Croatian Parliament want to correct an incorrect quote. In fact, Madam Minister said political decisions are being made in the House, not political decisions. It is this one bill of law that represents the politics of the ruling coalition that it wants to put under public television control and make party or coalition television from public television. This law, first and foremost, needs to reach a consensus of all political options in the Croatian Parliament and I see no reason why, regardless of what individual MPs are talking about qualified majority, ordinary majority, to reach consensus in this House and to have one such decision taken by the 2/3 majority.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10063	Thank you. We have the next correction... You're done. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But you haven't even corrected your colleague's misstatement. [[Intruder Vinkovic: Only then can we truly believe in responsibility, in good intentions, and at this point full of hunger does not believe.]] The next amendment was reported by MP Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10064	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Madam Minister, I am correcting your inaccuracies when it comes to the findings of the European Commission. So, you did say that they had directed, which we had really talked about a lot, their concern about how to choose a qualified majority, but the point is that they expressed their concern in that attitude and were concerned that this way the elected HRT administration would lose their independence. So that's the point of the objections coming from here. And listen, taking the risk of whoever proposes a law like this has to make sure that every action creates a reaction. If the previous law was made by consensus and a good practice was introduced in this Croatian Parliament, whether it must be 2/3 or not, then it should not have changed that good practice. I'm afraid that when there's a change of government then with the full right some new ruling majority will say wait, now we'll determine who's going to run the public television.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10065	Thank you. This concludes the debate. I thank Minister Andrei Zlatar Violić with his assistant.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10066	We're going to vote. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Television, First Reading, P.Z. No. 98. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "First, the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Croatian Television, Second, all objections, proposals and opinions will be sent to the Proposer in order to prepare the final draft law". Let's face it, who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote is 79 votes in favour, 34 against and 1 abstention of the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10067	We move to item 2 of the agenda - Final bill on amendments to the executive law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 101 - Final draft law amending the Law on public enforcement, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. A 100 will be held in a united debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the promoter, I would like to welcome Deputy Justice Minister Ms. Sandra Artuković Kunst. I'd like to introduce you to the Deputy Chief of Staff.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10068	Thank you very much. Dear MPs and MPs, here we have yet another delay in the application of the Executive Act. We propose it because we are in intensive negotiations with the European Commission and we have presented our intentions to improve the executive system and adapt the executive procedure to the Council of Europe's guidelines that require that we regulate such a system that will be effective, which will be economically and economically available in any way, therefore, will not increase the costs of the executive procedure, which will reduce the number of cases in courts and which will maximumly protect the dignity of the debtors. The government has defined a system that does not introduce a new instrument, i.e. a new public enforcement service, because we have assessed and concluded that such a solution does not lead to the achievement of these recommendations by the Council of Europe. In negotiations and talks with representatives from the European Commission, we have presented information that supports this and we have received a broadly positive stance, but what we are missing, and we would like to be a serious negotiator, i.e. a participant in negotiations and a party that accepts real recommendations, we are waiting for this written statement in which we will then be given the authority to change the executive system in the right direction and in full. Since such written evidence has not yet arrived, and on 1 July the date for which we have defined ourselves in that previous decision is here to ensure the functioning of the legal system we propose to postpone the executive law and the Law on public enforcement during the period until 15 October. Otherwise, the draft law of a new, i.e. a whole new executive system because it is not only the Executive Act, but some others have been fully drawn up and will be referred to the procedure as soon as the conditions for this are met with regard to the European Commission. So this 15 October deadline was set in that maximum form. As we were told, we held a debate on the parliamentary committees. We've also received an amendment from the Legislative Committee, so if I'm allowed to, I can immediately show myself. Namely, in Article 4 of our proposal for a Law amending the Implementing Law, we stated that in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to Implementing Law 125/11. And 12/12. in Article 7, we change the words from 1 July to 1 September. The Legislative Committee has shown us that it would be more accurate and precise to determine, only to refer to this last amendment which took place from 2012 which mentioned July 1st that the amendment would therefore only refer to the mention of that last amendment. And that's nomotechnically fine and then the government would accept this amendment if we could already see about it now, yes. So, do I have to read that in law now? In the Act amending Implementing Law NN 12/12. in Article 2, the words ‘July 1st’ are replaced by the words ‘September 1st’. Here, that's about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10069	Thank you, Deputy Minister. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, representative Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10070	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, the esteemed Deputy Minister. Here we are facing another amendment to the Executive Act and the Law on Public Executors, which does not essentially represent an amendment but rather a delay in their application. And that's delayed until the day of October 15th, 2012. Allow me to point out at the beginning that the Club of Representatives of the SDP will support this amendment because it considers it necessary at this point. A law that regulates the exercise, that is, the law that regulates the forced collection of religious claims is one of the fundamental laws of each country. On it they rest both the legal order, because it guarantees the execution of judicial decisions and the financial system. Because without knowing that your obligations will be possible and forced to be carried out probably knowing human nature, no one would carry out his obligations. That is why such laws must pay special attention. And such laws must basically satisfy two things. The first is to guarantee the fulfillment of the requirement of the believers, to guarantee them to him who asks for something. But also to limit this guarantee to something. And that restriction must be to protect the existence and dignity of the debtors, that is, when it comes to the Executive Law of the Executors. It is our opinion that, immediately at the second extraordinary session of the Assembly, we delayed the application of the Executive Act and the Law on Public Executors, that these laws were passed in 2010 or that these laws were not able to meet these two objectives. We believe that these laws in this form in which they bring neither guarantee nor guarantee efficiency, the quality of the collection of claims for creditors, nor protect the rights of debtors. Their fundamental human rights that in the executive procedure they will not be offended by their dignity, or existence. However, we believe that the fact that another segment of the executive procedure is being realized is the one that is most sensitive, and that is the very implementation of the exercise that leaves the private in the hands of the private, we find it inadmissible. And that's why we started to amend the Executive Act and the Law on Public Executors. These changes are available on the Ministry's website, they have been under public discussion for a long time, they present the direction in which our ideas of performance, about its arrangement, about how it is implemented are going. Unfortunately, as noted by the Deputy Minister of Consultation with the European Commission, these proposed amendments to the law have not been completed and we still have nothing left to do in this situation but to postpone these two laws once again. And why is that? As I mentioned earlier, we believe that these legal proposals are simply bad. There may be other opinions, though, but we also pointed out in the pre-election campaign that the direction in which these laws go is not acceptable. On the other hand, it should be pointed out that in 2010 when introducing these laws, another law was passed, which is the Law on the implementation of the money of the debtors. That law has shown very good results. The Agency's performance, or our FINE, has proved to be very effective. Of course, at first there were certain problems that had been corrected happily. They have shown effective and quality, and they have shown the direction in which we should go, that we are certain institutions that are established with us, which may be unique in us, should be elevated and used as much as we can. Here, discussions on committees have shown that we are being asked and clearly determined in which direction such a change would take. We need to point out here, we don't want public contractors, we find them unnecessary. And future amendments to the Executive Act and the Law on Public Executors as such will go in that direction. So this delay, we prevent what we consider unquality from starting to apply, and we go in order to systematically regulate the implementation by 15 October in a way that, by my court and by the court of the SDP club, it will be acceptable, efficient and less difficult for the perpetrators. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10071	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists, representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10072	Dear colleagues and colleagues. For the second time, parliamentarians are asked to take a decision to postpone the application of the two laws. Which arguments or arguments are given. That the Government of the Republic of Croatia has sent the European Commission with an indication of the amendments and additions to the law. I thought in my debate, and that's what my colleague, Paige, who spoke before me, mentioned that after a year and a half of the application of the Code of Conduct to the financial resources of the citizens of this country have a terrible problem. And that these institutions as special in Croatia, he probably meant FINU, are still performing executive procedures for citizens without executive orders, delivery of executive orders. To prey on the total income, not just one third. As a result, citizens remain without total income, and also because of the most bizarre requirements for enforcement procedures, based on falsified documents, paid obligations that should have been paid and all of these are negativeities in the system that exist. We can outwit here and pretend it's not there, that it doesn't exist or that it's just a system failure, but it's not. That's why even from the weakest, that's the citizen, the state has proven that they will effectively and quickly collect claims, regardless of whether it's a television subscription, penalties for wrong parking, communal fees, credit for the bank and anything else. But there's no point in talking about it now because of course the ruling will say that it's not the subject of this debate, because it's the third law, the ones who passed and proposed those laws saying that this is an example in individual cases. What I wanted to warn you about and ask the next question. When we discussed amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and decided on Croatia's accession to the European Union, we said we would also have to pass a special law on the relationship between the Government and the Croatian Parliament. The European concept is that the role and position of the Parliament, the principled parliaments, is stronger. And what it looks like is visible in the sentence in the assessment of the state of one law and another in which the Government sends MPs an assessment of the situation in which they have written their amendments, the draft was forwarded to the European Commission which has not yet been shown. Which would be lacking to the Government, Your Honor, in the Ministry, if you had given this text of the draft amendments to these laws and introduced us to the contents of what you wrote and sent to Brussels. I don't have time to read the private Facebook profiles of your ministers, who, on Facebook account, publish drafts of laws that they send into the process and open a public debate, because that's how you do it. Your ministers on their private Facebook profiles open public debates on draft proposals before even debates, for example in the Economic and Social Council. I have no intention, nor do I have to read the web pages of different ministries and look for what they screwed up and sent to Brussels. So when you come to the Parliament and ask for a delay in applying some two significant laws, because you are waiting for the word of Brussels. Be so polite, responsible to the Parliament of Croatia, the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia and give us what you have sent to them to show. What's the secret to what's the catch, what's it really about? We must vote on a delay in the application of the law based on the draft that you sent to the European Commission in Brussels, wait for their indication and then you will only send us your draft proposal. This is a different, fairer, better, stronger position of Parliament compared to the government when we enter the European Union. Why is it that when the proposed legislation requires the opinion of the European Commission and the Government requests the Parliament to postpone the application of some laws, urgent interventions and changes, it is not an integral part of the proposal. Why is this not a debate in the home working bodies before the Government asks for the opinion of the European Commission? Why is the government going to Brussels before the parent committee? I am not looking for a debate at the plenary session, but for the Chamber's parent committee before asking for the opinion of the European Commission. In the European Parliament, but also in many national parliaments, the most qualitative, the most professional, the most extensive, the longest discussions on draft laws last on committees for months. And when they come to the plenary session, even on behalf of the clubs, the debate takes three minutes and a deal is reached. Croatia is in position with its own choice,... and the unprepared dialogue with Parliament... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] to write the draft law, send it to Brussels and the Chamber's parent working body has no idea about it, not to discuss asking the Parliament to postpone the application of the law and say if you want to know what we sent to Brussels read our websites or maybe Facebook profiles or Twitters. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's unacceptable behavior. That can't happen in the future. I don't know, I don't understand why the parent boards of the Croatian Parliament agree to such humiliation. Why is the opinion of Brussels to the Government more important than the opinion of the Parliament's working body? Perhaps this proposal for a draft to the European Commission would be better considered on the parent board or not only in the parent but also in the interested working body. Perhaps the opinion, the position of the parent and interested committee, would be an additional argument when the European Commission gives its opinion, because they are now giving an opinion only on the view of the Government and Parliament. And to get the whole, we would understand why we didn't get the European Commission's opinion, but for the second time we postpone the application of the same laws. And now what does it change for the citizens? Nothing. The performances continue in the old model, according to the old system without executive orders, to the protected part of the income. If the citizen doesn't know he's responding in time to the FINA, he's going to hell, and we're covering ourselves here with an opinion, waiting for the European Commission's opinion without a previous debate in the House. And I ask at the end of the day how do you know who told you that by these deadlines that you have entered into the bill you will receive the opinion of the European Commission. Or the last time you asked for it to be half this year, you said you'd have the opinion of the European Commission by half the year. You're not. How do you know you'll get an opinion in time? Who guaranteed you that you would get that opinion? Be correct, we do not know, it is uncertain and extend the use until the end of the year then delay application. Do not harass us every three months with the proposed legislation on delaying the application of the law for waiting for Brussels's opinion, which the Parliament did not discuss before asking Bruxella's opinion. Not the plenary session, the home working body. It is called the protection of the Croatian Parliament's dignity against the Croatian public, Croatian citizens, but also as future members of the European Union. It's called a new position, a new role, a stronger role of parliament compared to the government. It's something that will obviously need to be the subject of a special law. And now there's going to be an excuse that we haven't passed such a law that's true. The argument last time the application was delayed was the wait, the opinion of the European Commission. I repeat the question, do you think they will interrupt the annual holidays to give you an opinion until the new deadlines you are proposing, and why is it so difficult for you, with these proposals of the law, to give the document you sent to the European Commission for an opinion?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10073	Thank you. We have three corrections to the incorrect allegations of your exposure. First responds Pedja Grbin's representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10074	Thank you. Here's a number of incorrect allegations, and we'll go in a row. First of all, it is incorrect for a colleague to be performed in FINA without delivering an executive title. The law is clear here, the procedure is prescribed. My God, there are mistakes like there are in every system but they are being removed and as the system is being stalked there will be more and more of them. Furthermore, I would like to warn you that there is something called a code of consultation with the interested public in the process of passing laws, other regulations and acts. And that code very clearly laid down where the acts are published before they are referred to the procedure of the authorised proposing and subsequently to the legislative body that adopts them. And finally, we have the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament that prescribes when the promoter referred a specific proposal to what is being done with it. Time doesn't allow me to correct any further allegations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10075	Thank you. The next correction to the incorrect quote is MP Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10076	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I am going to continue as my colleague Grbin used to say to me the same things he had already corrected. So, I'll refer to Facebook, Twitter and websites. So, colleague Lesar this is the 21st century, and it is normal to communicate with the most modern media, especially if this contributes to the transparency of the work of the Government because in this way the wider circle of interested citizens allows them to have insight into the documents and laws that are in the procedure. As far as I'm concerned, the minister is not a private colleague. As far as Parliament's role in the European Union is concerned, I am very sorry that you have not been to an excellent lecture organised by the Committee on European Integration, where a top politologist has actually told us about the future of parliaments in the European Union in relation to the European Commission, national governments and the European Parliament. Here's the time he won't let me elaborate on you any further, but I'd be happy to if you'd like.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10077	Thank you. The next correction to the incorrect quote by attorney Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10078	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, colleague Lesar, it is incorrect that the argument for the first delay on 22 December 2011 was waiting for the opinion of the European Commission. The argument was, we didn't get clear arguments though, but we could read about it, we said we wouldn't, and we don't want public contractors. They fall into people's homes at night, and then because there was a positive opinion on the existing law adopted by two-thirds and more in the Croatian Parliament, then they should now wait for an opinion on the amendment to that already approved law, or positively assessed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10079	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club, representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10080	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister. The Croatian Democratic Community Club will not support the adoption of this law for reasons which we have already spoken during the proposal for the first postponement of the application of the passed law. But here I have to say that this is another law that essentially changes in the implementation part after signing an access contract. And this is one of the laws that was measured in Chapter 23. And yet someone will tell me that there is no legal gain of the European and there is no acquis and that is correct. But what was a request for the signing of the contract was for Croatia to achieve and implement measures and pass laws that would ensure an effective, professional and impartial judiciary. Since the issue of enforcement and the Implementing Law is of particular importance to people because they can have a super-efficient judiciary to the state of the powerful verdict but with a powerful verdict they can only wave, it is a paper until they have their right to whether the right or any material good obtained by that verdict until they have it in their own pocket or in their land book entered in their own name until then. I'm kind of embarrassed to discuss this here, and I'm uncomfortable with Mrs. Foreign Minister Pusic, who was also the chairman of the National Council of Parliament to monitor the implementation of the accession negotiations and... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The National Council Committee, it wasn't called a council, but it doesn't matter. So whatever. All these laws went through that body. They all got the green light and all the negotiating positions were confirmed and all these laws were on that very body. And after that you bring here at the plenary session here are the two laws I'm talking about with 100 and some 110 votes. What are the arguments as to why it was necessary to delay the application so spotfully and urgently? As I've already said, we've never heard explicitly or received any analysis of it. There was an increase in costs, we didn't get a parallel cost, which means with public contractors. So now they're paying court fees. The same would be paid in that case and now the costs of a lawyer are paid. It would be interesting if the ministry could make one analysis of how much costs it costs when it takes a citizen's lawyer or the costs would be predominant to introduce a public service. Of course, I asked the parent committee the question when the law was addressed to the European Commission. I was sent to the web at the time. And my colleague Grbin certainly this act that you mention I believe mentions the website of Croatian ministries but certainly does not mention the private faces of ministers but here is the modern style of this government to communicate with citizens on its facebook profiles private. They often rely there and communicate with a dictionary and style that doesn't even look like ministers in the Croatian government because it should be distinguished when spoken as Minister of the Croatian Government, when on a private face you talk about the law and when you tweet with anyone. So then I went to the web and I saw that the first delay was urgent, urgent 22.12. at an extraordinary session of the Parliament, and that's where we see that only in the 3rd month of 2012 was the working group formed to make amendments and supplement the law. So, in the third month, a working group was formed, and this proposal was in May this year. Of course, now we must, not as my colleague Grbin says, have no choice but to postpone because of the possible legal void, or it would not be legal void, but it would be what is already drawn in the existing law but would be applied which would not be the case for the ruling majority. So, in time for the draft amendments and additions to be made, the Commission's opinion would have already been by 1 July. I join my fellow Lesar's comments because I wanted to propose to Mrs. Deputy Minister that we actually get some analysis of the amendment and supplementation proposal, so that no dry amendment and supplementation comes again. However, here is the deputy minister who said that the European Commission is presented with a proposal to amend and supplement and that all indicators supporting this are presented. We would like it to be this Croatian Parliament, even with this delay, where it is already clearly announced in the very explanation that the government is giving up public service, that we are then presented with some indicators that we can also somehow reason on it. Because it is said that this law adopted in this Croatian Parliament does not lead to what the guidelines were for the EU, which is an effective exercise and financial accessibility for citizens. So, I repeat this same commission according to these same guidelines gave a positive opinion on the proposed Law on Public Executors and on the Implementing Law in this existing text. We'll probably talk about those whole changes and additions, but I hear that all executions are proposed to go to municipal courts and be excluded from the jurisdiction of commercial courts. On the benches we found now a few days ago the minister's answer to the SDP MP's question was, what is the average duration of the execution in the commercial courts, so it was said that they did not have that data, but according to the court's data, the average is 3 to 10 months, which seems quite acceptable to me. Well, if it's in commercial courts today, then why would they burden municipal courts that are so burdened with performances? But we'll talk about it when we get an official proposal to amend and supplement the law. And, of course, I agree with my colleague coat of arms that the executive law must always strike a balance between guaranteeing the believer that he will receive his claim and on the other hand the protection mechanism for the defence of debtors' dignity. I just didn't hear the argument decided by what this is proposed by an existing proposal that has delayed the executive law, which makes it and what are the articles of that law that do not guarantee it and do not achieve that balance. And I'm now wondering, since it's a reserved court order, I'm interested in who it is, and it's not public enforcement because the law didn't go, who was doing all these performances, unfair housework, on property, when they sold houses for invaluable debt, and who was doing it and who weren't public contractors. Well, the court, according to the same law, is now a court enforcer because the public won't do anything else that the public perpetrators haven't done, and that's why they're stories for little children and scaring people with that breaking into the house at midnight, at night, and I don't know how to go on. I also ask the applicant or the Croatian Government when it comes with a proposal to amend and supplement the Executive Act or the new Executive Act, however, which will give up the public-executive service to provide us with some indicators in the reasons, to give us some analysis, for example, these 6 months when the exercise is still carried out in courts, whether accelerated procedures, how long they last, whether the courts are less or more burdened. Because I'm data, and I'm talking about cash claims, it's not a real picture of the deal. It's the easiest thing to do, and it's never been a problem, a cash claim removed from someone's account. It's not a problem. And that's what we are, somewhere I've read the data, I don't know if the ministry will react to it, but here's the data from the Public Executive Association that FINA, that of all submitted executives according to the FINA, is realized 35%. So 35% of the bills had some money that could be done, and the vast majority would probably end up in court again looking for a way further to move and real estate. And the biggest problem with effective performance is not so much on real estate, but on movement. These executions in the court system are almost never successfully completed, i.e. the executions are very rarely carried out and it is not about being demagogues, that someone wants to take away his stove or bed which we also heard about this pay phone in some former discussions because it is an exception from the exercise. But it's that the jeeps and Mercedes that are wanted for, say, the execution that an interesting court contractor can never find that Mercedes, is never parked in front of the house, he's always gone, and he's never gone, that's what this is about. It would probably be in some more efficient service where, in order to propose this law, where something would not be given into the hands of private individuals not so simplified, it is about transferring powers to the perpetrators, private perpetrators, just as it is in the case of public notebooks. And notice, it is not about some people how it has often been presented here, a semi-criminal mile for God's sake or ignorants, it is about people who have graduated from law school, passed a judicial exam, passed a public-execution exam, so another qualification more and swore to Croatian laws, the Constitution and compliance with the rules. So we talk about these people when we talk about public contractors. And one more thing, if there is a proposal for a new Implementing Law, if it is to give up that service, then I ask that it be kept in mind that financial resources are required in that section for that law to specify all costs incurred in a year of preparation for the application of that law. Because let's not forget, the law was passed in 2010, a year the state set up that service, people passed the exams, not only did the persons prepare physically, but they had expenses, the state had the costs of implementing that law, so it would go into financial burden because it would all be paid, it was paid out of the state budget, and certainly the assessment of how much damage claims would be for those people who put their efforts, work and financial resources into preparation for the public-executive service that they were guaranteed by law, and then it was told overnight that they would no longer be able to do so. For all these reasons, the HDZ Club will not support this law, which extends the period of application of the Executive Act and the Law on Public Executors.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10081	Thank you. We have an announcement of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a colleague of Vuljanic. ... I'm sorry, buddy, but watch your step next time. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. Representative Peja Grbin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10082	Thank you. Well here is true that the criteria for accession to the European Union were effective and impartial justice, however, it is not true that such a guarantee was guaranteed by the Implementing Law and the 2010 Law on Public Executors, however. ... My colleague, you and I have a right to our position and I believe that you have presented one fact that is not correct. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] However, we believe that this law, or this set of laws, causes longer, more complicated and ultimately more expensive work. And respected colleagues, the code we talked about earlier, and this law is published on the official website of the Ministry of Justice if I do not cheat on the domain of www.Justice.hr. After that, if someone was shelling it on their Facebook and on their Twitter account or on the social network of any other person, it's his right.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10083	Thank you. Advancing a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Agent Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10084	Here's 209. Rules of Procedure, my colleague is talking about things I didn't even talk about in my presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10085	What article of the Rules of Procedure was injured?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10086	209.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10087	What exactly?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10088	Here's exactly what he said, he's talking about this web-page shearing, so I wasn't talking about, that's the other minister shearing on Facebook, but I didn't talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10089	Agent Lovrin, you're correcting an incorrect assumption. It's not made... No, no, it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We have another correction of the incorrect allegations, MP Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10090	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Lovrin, here I am going to connect so my colleague Grbin took my word, the Ministry's website is official
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10091	What are you correcting?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10092	To correct the allegations that it's being published on websites which isn't official enough means official mail. ... Yeah, you said co-workers. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Web sites are a public and official voice of ministries as well as other institutions. ... And there are no private persons on the facebook, especially those who are ministers. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] And as for the language of the voters... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10093	My colleagues, allow me.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10094	... [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10095	Thank you very much. I beg you when you report for correction or injury to stick to the Rules of Procedure. I will respect my colleague Vuljanic's misrepresented tile of correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10096	Thank you. In fact, counterpart Lovrin said that the government, along with this new law, had sent some analysis, assessment and such to the European Commission in Brussels. I doubt it because the Croatian observers in the European Parliament didn't even get a piece of paper about it, and it would be expected so we were told when we went there that this communication with our government would be permanent and that we would get government views so that we could possibly defend something there. Well, I doubt that's the attitude that's gone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10097	Thank you very much. Next on behalf of HNS MP Srdjan Gjurkovic's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10098	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy, colleagues and fellow MPs. The HNS Club will support the proposal to amend the Executive Act and the proposal to amend the Law on Public Executors. So it is about the metrics, which is that we are obliged, of course, to coordinate, i.e. to get an opinion from the European Commission on the laws adopted by the Croatian Parliament during this period, or proposed by the Croatian Government. And it's clear and it's not the first, obviously, or the last time. What is important is that these laws need to achieve legal certainty and order, that judicial decisions are implemented in fact, that we get efficiency, given that one of the most sensitive laws to be directly touched by an extremely large number of citizens, and we have already had a citizens' reaction at the end of the year on the application of the existing draft law that is essentially delayed. It is clear and it is the right of this coalition and the Government to propose amendments, to pass these amendments to the European Commission, to come to committees and before the Croatian Parliament and to bring about what is best, which is the best quality and what we consider to be the most responsible if the implementation of justice, security and order could be carried out in the Croatian state. Therefore, it is a relatively simple delay of 3 months in order not to stop the current possibility of implementing the existing law, and the HNS supports it. And we think we'll definitely get what we talked about six months ago at the first delay in three months. And this is something that is normal and something that is under way and that indicates that this coalition is thinking well about the need for the laws to be life, that they are not only in harmony but that they are living and that they are responding to the needs, and that it is clear to all that other laws will have to change because the needs of life, the needs of what we want to progress in the Republic require and that the laws adapt to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10099	Thank you. We're done discussing clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate. Representative Sandra Petrovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10100	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Deputy Minister, the esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's a lot of things we've heard in the club debate so far, I'd support my colleague Pejo Grbin in front of the SDP club, and that's in the section where he said that the pre-election promise to the Kukurik coalition either that the application of this law will be delayed and that the executive law that was passed is bad and that the public perpetrators in the Croatian system of enforcement do not need it. That's what I can say in person, I'll be so free, and maybe I'll reconsider the government's position on that, that's my personal opinion. I believe that the consequences that could arise, i.e. resulting from the effect of this Implementing Law and the Law on Public Executors, were in the extreme case negative for the dignity and rights of Croatian citizens under the rule of law, under the burden of unpaid or unpaid obligations. Some of them, by their own fault, some of them not even by their own fault, are often such a case, under the burden of some debts, or have not fulfilled their obligation in due time. The system of public perpetrators seems to me before to be a punishment for hanging consumers, hangers of citizens who spend their money in a frenzy that they do not have, and then they are unable to fulfil their obligations. And I think that's bad. I think that every executive law, i.e. the executive system, should be governed primarily by the protection of the dignity of the executive debtor, and that is the objective to be pursued in the executive procedure. I don't mean the very aim of the executive procedure, which is to collect claims. I would also like to refer to the objections of the parliamentary opposition that the execution, i.e. the executive procedure which was voted in 2010 was so-called. I will say in English "closed deal" with the European Commission. So what was negotiated with the European Commission and the European Commission itself confirmed in principle that it could be changed. We still have sovereignty and this House can pass laws, it can change them if most people think it's necessary and it's good. So what has been negotiated with the European Commission is not carved into stone and it is not something that has forever been drawn up and in which we no longer have any freedom to decide. The implementation of the budget implementation, on money claims through FINA, where the speech was today, is it good or not good, whether it was successful or not? I think it is, although it's a cash-demand performance, the law was good and its implementation was good because it was a little different system of performance. The part that my colleague Lovrin mentioned was that something more than 35% or 36% on paid executive procedures through FINA through this kind of performance. The reason is not because FINA is unable to implement, but because the accounts are blocked, there is no funds in the accounts. So, of course, you have to go, find another way of doing this. It wasn't because of incompetence or for some other reason that he prevented Finn from carrying out those errands. Also today's debate, I don't know if there are any players by Labourers who have been particularly angry with the fact that the draft sent to the European Commission has not come to the constituency bench and I remind again of the words of my colleagues. The working bodies, the committees and the interested working bodies shall give their opinion in the debate and decide at their meetings. They precede the plenary session, and they happen when the proposer makes a bill. I believe that by referring the draft law to the Commission, the proposer has done a good thing that he has proved himself responsible in his portfolio that he is ready to carry out obligations and communicate with the European Commission in the way that we have put it in the final case and with the accession tax. Let us, I urge you colleagues and colleagues to request a delay in time that he has assessed, that it is maximum necessary and in which he expects the conditions to be laid down in the procedure for a new implementing law. I think the answer to the question is why the answer is not given, why the application of this law is delayed and why giving up was very clear by the proposings. We have said that we believe that public perpetrators are not good, that they are not necessary and that an ordinary system can be applied to other more efficient and less complicated and less, with less costs for the debtor and for the complete enforcement process. And I finally have to look back at that again, how do I say unfortunate communication through social networks. So, let's explain once, to determine the principle of sharing on Facebook, even though you say you weren't talking about the Minister of Justice and your colleague, Lesar, he also said that he wasn't talking about the Minister of Justice, he was talking about another minister. So any place on the web can share-ana on your personal Facebook profile doesn't mean anything. This means that the law was, which was published on a specific site on the website was shared-an on Facebook profile was on private or someone else's, any page or page or anything like that or group, it doesn't matter. Furthermore, it is mentioned that the performance, i.e. the efficiency of the operation through the Trade Courts, is mentioned. I believe that it is also necessary to note that, until now, trade courts have left their activities to the Municipal Courts, so there is no reason for the same court to determine and implement the exercise. He believes that this argument, that the Trade Courts were up-to-date and executive proceedings within 3 to 10 months, or 3 to 7, I don't know exactly, I apologize if I'm wrong, that argument is wrong. Therefore, the Commercial Court shall send for the implementation of the Municipal Court, hence nothing shall relieve it or in any significant part shall exempt it from its work. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10101	Thank you very much. We have four replicas on your exhibit. The first one came from representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10102	... I'm with my colleague Petrovic. [[Specially enabled.]] Here's what you said was one of your pre-election promises. I'd say one of the few pre-election promises that you've spot-on, or you haven't fulfilled because you've only delayed it, and here for six months now, you haven't had a fundamental bill to discuss, but you're postponing the application. However, the second pre-election promise, for example, economic growth, increase in employment, investments up to 6 months, you failed to meet this, but you have fulfilled something you did not promise, you have increased VAT, you have collected electricity, you have collected employment without competition by party similarity, etc. You've filled it all out very quickly. But it wasn't in the pre-election program.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10103	Thank you. Do we have a reply to the replica? No, I don't. Thank you. The next one was registered by representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my esteemed colleague talking about unwitting citizens who spend more than they earn by drawing credit cards, raising loans, they should be protected. These citizens become officials and then you protect them by postponing the law. These citizens become ministers and then you protect them by delaying the executive law, by suspending public officials from doing their job. These unwitting citizens have become very conscious and influential and powerful, so through the justice system you probably brake and carry out the performance on their accounts. When you talk like that about protecting these citizens. I'm not gonna talk about names today, not even the last time I talked about those same names, it's about names. They go out on their own, see what they're worth, see how they're spent. We have the answers of the Municipal Courts that something has been returned, something is not and I wonder if the other delay in law enforcement and law enforcement and the introduction of public executives into the business is in the function of your officials to protect them. It's a general question that's being asked from this debate, because I can't tell otherwise. Or maybe to avoid the accounts of Mr. Cacic and his companies in front of the blockade, maybe that's the reason. Because I can't find out any other way than because it's rumored that the proposal to pass laws on an emergency procedure is to remove major economic disturbances. So imagine? What kind of economic disturbances can cause application of the Executive Act, timely payment of claims, disabling payment of claims, non-recognition of card spending Well, I think we're funny with reasons. [[Intruding Batinić: Time of fellow Djakic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10105	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, representative Sandra Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10106	Thank you very much. I didn't want to answer my line to my colleague Lovrin because she wasn't involved in my debate, so I didn't feel necessary. Comrade Djakic, I'll just say when you talk about protecting unconscious citizens who are not fulfilling their obligations I ask you not to bring some people's personal finances into debate in this House. It's really not, it's not delicious, and it's not necessary. If you said that you wanted to introduce a system with this law that would effectively and quickly make payment of claims through enforcement. I think that it may agree with you, too, that the Association of Public Executives, which says that the introduction of public perpetrators would prevent unnecessary accumulation of legal costs, because public perpetrators would first record the overall property status of the perpetrators, then determine the implementation of the exercise on part of the property of the perpetrators, which is proportional to the basic debt, and that its sale would be at least burdensome for the perpetrator so that I practically believe that, in practice, this conduct would be completed within a few days. What you've suggested and what you've advocated, I think it would be so bad for the officials themselves that they wouldn't have a chance to say and they'd already be left without their property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10107	Thank you. The next caller came forward by representative Zlatko Tušak, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10108	That you were saying that it was social networks and that it was official sites on which laws are published, and then they joke on private Facebook profiles. A colleague of Lesar's when he spoke, and you yourself said he wasn't talking about this law. He spoke of an example where the law was not published on the official site of the ministry but was published on a private account. And then when you talk about it then and say that Mr. Lesar didn't say that it was on, as far as this law is concerned, it's about another law that we're going to discuss, and that's the Law on criteria for participation in tripartite bodies for collective bargaining that we're going to discuss clearly. But this is only a negative example of how it is done when certain laws are not published on the official page of the ministry but only on their private Facebook profiles.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10109	Thank you. We have an answer to Sandra Petrovic's replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10110	Here's a respected colleague, he was just talking about a law that specifically determines where and how the government's drafts are published, that is, that is, the motionor is obliged to publish. Therefore, they publish on the Internet. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10111	Thank you. We have another replica of Ivanka Roksandić, here are your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10112	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Petrovic, at the beginning of your debate, you did say, although you say that my colleague Lovrin wasn't talking about it, but it is that the abolition of this law is a pre-election promise to the Kukuriku coalition. This law was only used to scare citizens in a pre-election campaign that the perpetrators would invade apartments and hijack property. And if this coalition really held to pre-election increases then it wouldn't increase VAT to 25, it wouldn't increase the price of electricity, gas, transport, utility. You are aware that because of this, it is because of these gatherings that a large part of the citizens will not be able to pay their obligations and that indeed these people will have to do their job. The postponement of this Act will not help the citizens and when it comes to not understanding your colleague well when she spoke about FINA. She didn't say that FINA and the people in FINA were incompetent but unable to collect. These are citizens who don't even have swears in their accounts. So you have nothing to take from them, but then the courts have to sit on moving and immovable property. It's not about FINA's incompetence. It would be better indeed if we started to deal with economic reforms in this government, if we increased employment not in a way that gave young people 1600 kunas and then took them in piles to prove that this programme is good and exploited even in local self-government, and they have no use for it, they don't even have good mentors. Check this out in some units of local self-government where such young people are mass employed to prove that the application of this law is good.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10113	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Sandra Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10114	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, I appreciate that in your replica you have made all the promises and all the accomplishments of this government. Unfortunately, you did not mention your achievements in the last term and did not mention the situation we encountered and the situation we encountered by taking over the government. When you said that citizens who are in debt, who are under the impression that they are unable to fulfil their obligations because they have no swearing. I assure you that there is no institution that will make the performance painless and that will make the performance pleasant. No one's going to call you if you come to take away his mobile property or his real estate to get coffee whether it's a court executive or a public contractor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10115	Thank you very much. My colleague Roksandić, I will not agree with you, here I am violating the Rules of Procedure knowingly for 1600 kuna that they do not have good mentors there should not be generalized. I'd like to if you have a chance to take you to your town, see where the headmasters are at 25 years of internship, experience and these people are very good mentors. Thank you very much. We continue with an individual debate, Agent Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Namely, I wanted to make my modest contribution to this debate and then she went into another course. So here's my colleague Petrovic, the truth is that today people are communicating with social networks from Skyb, Twitter and Facebook. However, it is ugly when you do not get information on official websites before the minister announces it to the carp as you say or cut it because I do not like it sharanly, cut it out when it is published on his facebook profile. That's not good. And on the official pages, it's certainly a good announcement. But you can't find some stuff on Twitter or on a facebook or skyba that's connected to public contractors. You said yourself that the application of this law from the new year to July 1st was delayed, and here is the second delay until October 15th. The question is, will it be then? I think the quickness of the ruling has been delayed by this application of the law, which has caused direct damage to public perpetrators. It's about a little bit who's talking. They were preparing for these functions by investing funds and planning a new job, along with deputy ministers and also Mr. Minister, Mr. Miljanic, a recommendation, a warning. These are the people who were elected to the public competition and they swore. And what's very important to me is that their legal certainty is being denied, that's what bothers me personally. It should also be recalled that they were appointed at the end of last year and were to start working from the new year, however, by delaying all this to the 1st rout they were out of a job. And what's happening to them? Many of them left the jobs of judges or lawyers, and in order to be able to do legal work again, you know that they have to wait 6 months and pay 5 thousand euros for the Croatian bar, and in the business areas where they were working, they invested up to 50,000 kuna according to their allegations. They don't have a future after this, they don't have a bright future. What were public perpetrators really supposed to do? They should've cut costs. In fact, every time there is a change in the executive procedure, for example, over the subject of the case, that cost is charged by an enforcer who pays the lawyer, and there are, for example, the costs of delivery that are not negligible. About public contractors in the media was created a very ugly picture, and this was told by counterpart Roksandić that the ruling coalition was in fact scaring voters with public enforcement, so that citizens were afraid that they would enter in the middle of the night and take away property and even clothes and shoes. However, it has been omitted to say that current executive practices harm both creditors and debtors. The first suffers due to the length of the procedure and the others due to the interest burdens between 12% and 17% and the other costs resulting from this. It is also necessary to know and acknowledge that public contractors represent intermediaries even though an agreement is reached between the executives and the perpetrators to the performance does not actually have to happen. The public contractor may, in agreement with the perpetrator, find a solution to the way in which the implementation of the operation is more painless. And breaking into people's homes at night, so they certainly don't have any authority. And let me get this straight. The service of public perpetrators is cheaper than the court that such a system has 19 European countries. If it were to live in Croatia then it would make a significant contribution to dispensing justice, which is also in your best interests and to better protection and dignity of debtors, which is both of our interests and certainly transparency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10117	Thank you, Your Honor. We have one reported replica. Honorable representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go. I'm sorry I didn't sign up, I didn't see it, but of course we'll give you the right to the replica when you picked up the tile. Here are the esteemed MPs, Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10118	Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Babić is clear and it is not disputed for anyone to really communicate today through social networks, to communicate via the Internet and officially and with many authorities of the state administration and with courts, but I really don't think it says anywhere that a citizen must become a facebook friend of a particular minister in order to learn something about the text of the law. A colleague, Lesar, spoke of another minister, of another law. The minister published the law on his facebook profile in private because the official ministry's supposed website is not good or good, so I recommend that he pre-arrange the official website of the ministry so that all citizens can come up with a published draft of the law or whatever it is. Of course, today we personally and all of us communicate via the Internet both to the court and to the landowner and to the public notebooks and to the authorities of the state administration, of course but always through their official websites. And what I mentioned about the style of certain members of this government I don't think it's good, a man gets carried away when he writes something on his face from the bedroom and then comes to his senses and expressions and a way of expressing it a little casually, and that's always inappropriate for a member of the Croatian government. And when I was talking about fina, I wouldn't say that fina was incompetent. It's just that it's just that the easiest thing to do on cash claims is to get the money off the bill. It's very simple, it can be anyone. I mean anyone who's authorized if there's money. The real problem and the weight of the exercise is when it cannot be done with the expense of the money from the accounts, but when it is necessary to carry out the work on the movables and real estates with that in order to say that on the movables it is actually the most complicated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10119	Thank you, too. The next replica is the replica of the respected representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10120	Thank you. Well, here I am going to start with one little ironic observation coming from my former profession, which is a lawyer's profession. Do you really think a lawyer would be able to get rid of the Law on Public Doers? Here I would say hard. And that's why all those remarks that come from public perpetrators don't calculate with themselves one very important expense, which is the expense of a lawyer. He's nowhere in any calculations. And in all calculations, when they estimate the cost of the execution before the court, they estimate the cost of a lawyer. Throwing out the expense of a lawyer in that court case would make him far more expensive than public executioners. So I think that this is an important segment of the price of the executive procedure that we need to take into account, and we do not think that it has been sufficiently taken into account when the Law on Public Executors was adopted. For example. Here's one way to avoid it. There's a court ruling, it becomes a power of attorney. This law, which now postpones such a judgment, must be applied to the public enforcement officer to take their actions, their measures and to send it to the FINAs. And why don't we now introduce that the FINAs directly like a public notary solution can also be sent to a powerful executive judgment. In this way we throw out one expense, and in the proposal sent by the ministry, such a solution has been adopted. And now that I've seen the replica of my esteemed colleague, Lovrin, I've experienced more as a replica of myself than my colleague Babic, I have to be a little out of the picture and say a propos style. It may be inappropriate for a single minister to communicate with the public from his bed, but I think it's much more appropriate than stealing, receiving bribes and eventually ending up on the defendant's benches and in prison. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10121	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10122	Thank you, comrade Grbin. However, here is something I will read to you that it is not exactly what you say in the public enforcement system that is not possible for FINA and the employer to directly request the implementation of the exercise by means of a powerful and executive public record solution on the performance, as this possibility of direct enforcement is prescribed by Article 118 of Article 2 of the 2010 Executive Act, which introduces a public-executive service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10123	Thank you, Your Honor. The next speaker for 10 minutes is the esteemed representative Ivan Shantek. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10124	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Deputy Minister, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues. It was interesting today to follow this debate, but I also think it's a good time to remember a little bit of the chronology of the law-making events. These laws have been adopted several times in 2010 and have been one of the conditions on which our party agreed to accept the criteria set out in Chapter 23 on the judiciary that was a condition for EU accession. Here is the information that at the time of the vote in the Croatian Parliament when the laws were passed, 111 MPs were for the Law on Public Executives, and 108 were for the Law on Consummation, none against and none abstention. Although some speak of these laws say that these are HDZ laws, I must remind that the HDZ had 65 MPs at the time, so these laws were passed by general consensus. Why is this chronology interesting? About a year later, an election campaign begins, and the whole story changes what they say by 180 degrees. Public contractors who, meanwhile, passed the exam and had to provide adequate rooms to carry out their work, who took the oath, who even founded their own chamber, were in a way media-obsessed, called them sheriffs and the public were portrayed as persons who actually made a decision about who was in debt, who should pay in order and how much property they needed to confiscate which of course was not true. Also, at the 1st session of the Parliament, or on the 2nd extraordinary one among the first laws to be laid down, whose delay was delayed for 6 months was precisely these two laws. I read the phonogram, I have it here in front of me, a colleague who put it on behalf of the promoter, and although Mrs Lovrin, a colleague of Lovrin, said that they were not completely clear reasons why this was required, and after reading it, it is not clear why this delay is required. However, if one is to say the general reason why it was actually intended to protect myself to say so the victims of the transition that would become prey, the target of these Laws on Public Executors, that is, the Law on Execution. Whether it's true or not, we can look at it from two sides. Indeed, there are people today who cannot fulfill their duties, and indeed there are persons who cannot pay their communal bills, or their phone bills, or their electricity bills and other utility bills. But there are also persons, there are workers who can't get their salaries. So were we put outside the scope of this law, to whom we actually helped, which is the cause, and what's the consequence. Also, I expected especially from colleagues who are in power today to mention a certain category of citizens who are also, I think, perhaps even the biggest victim of a three-way judiciary, and these are single parents who for years cannot afford to support children while their debtors, former employers or spouses are skillfully avoiding obligations. Also, if I'm talking about protecting the poor, I think there's only legal procedure, whether it's administrative or judicial, which can determine whether someone is poor, whether someone can or can't carry out the obligations. Here we had opportunities to read in the media that even some social aid users were coming to Mercedes for social assistance, even receiving food from Caritas, and driving them in expensive vehicles. Also, whether the poor are those who have millions of dwellings in the city’s centre, and for example do not comply with their obligations to the state, according to local self - government, or perhaps to their spouse with whom they are no longer in the marriage community. That's all the questions that open up when we look at the application of these laws. Furthermore, looking at the chronology of these laws, in the 3rd month, the minister said a political decision was made and it was actually the end of public perpetrators. These public perpetrators had even a round table at the time where the judges of the Supreme Court participated, and then from that particular rally came a notion that I think must be all of us concerned, especially today a coalition that behaves, and that concept I first heard a few months ago, and it's called the debt industry. The debt industry is something that really needs to be concerned because it seems that this debt industry besides the precious metal industry is the only one that is profitable today in the Republic of Croatia. My colleague Babić mentioned how much interest the current accounts are in red and of course every bank is in the interest of making as many people as possible in red and thus charging them as much interest as possible. Also, if we pass through Zagreb today on every tree, you will see the papers on each pillar where the favourable loans are given. You'll see the same thing if you even ride on a tram. Good loans to pensioners, no guarantees, no one needs anything, but we're also witnessing that the consequences of human destiny are caused by that interest. We've had cases and murders and suicides and failed marriages because of everything that's been going on. So I think the key thing we need to put our weight here today is the debt industry. And that's why the key question here is whether these laws actually encourage this debt industry or by postponing these laws, we actually put that debt industry in those frameworks that are prescribed by the laws. What worries me in some way is whether we as the Croatian Parliament will, after this debate today, send a message that the debt will never actually be completed. So whoever owes someone something, since these laws have been postponed again for six months that this performance won't arrive. But that's not true, and we have to say it clearly here. If anyone enters a trial or any other debt-deposit process, that debt will be charged. It's only a matter of time, whether through a shorter time or a longer time. If it is shorter in time then the price of that debt will be lower, and if it is over a long period of time then the debt price will be higher. I think these are the key things we've been discussing here today, and all these other shootings I think are going to harm our citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10125	Thank you. We have one replica, Agent Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10126	Thank you very much. I'd like to say it in a row. The sheriff's name isn't something that was invented in the Republic of Croatia, public contractors are called in certain legal systems, so it may not be such a derrogatory term, but it doesn't matter. As for your comments on the powers of public contractors, I would like to warn you of Article 33. The implementing law that we are postponing today, which says that it is the public enforcement officer that is being submitted with a proposal to determine the implementation. Afterwards, I would warn you of the article 39 which tells you precisely that the public contractor has a whole series of powers, i.e. tasks in the executive procedure, among which is that he determines how, in which order and where the exercise of course will be carried out within the framework of what the master has asked him to do. So, I think you made a little bit of a mistake in that part. And this second part of your exposure, I really have to agree with that, especially this part of when you're talking about buying debts, that is, about the debt industry and this scary, really scary thing, is that at every bus, tram stand or lighting pole, we find papers where people are invited to take credit. And I think you're absolutely right and that in that part we should step up our engagement to all of us to prevent these phenomena. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10127	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Agent Ivan Shantek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10128	Thank you. Here I agree with you in this second part, but I must say that before the debate itself, I opened the government page and read the report from today's session, and I must say that Mr Linic today announced that all those who owe more than 15 thousand kuna, those below 15 thousand kuna, will not be brought to the table of shame. So I think when I was talking about this part that there are debtors within the family, within a disintegrated family who are far more obliged than anyone is to the state, so here I think just by postponing these laws, we didn't put these laws out of force. Because I have an impression from your debate and your colleagues who used to argue that these laws are very bad. But I don't understand one situation if these laws are so bad and so harmful why don't you put them out of force? So we're waiting for a new law that's going to be okay, which you're going to suggest. However, these laws are delayed, delayed, delayed. This is the second time. It's something that's not right. Why do they delay if they're bad? And if they're good, why don't they apply? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10129	Thank you. Next to discuss it, Branko Juričev-Martinchev signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10130	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. It's June 20th, and there's still not a full six months that we're in this assembly, and we're already changing the laws that we've passed in this same composition. I'm the mayor of the city of Vodice, and there are a lot of my colleagues here, believe that most of us would be blushing and fat enough to justify to our city councils that within six months we change the same law twice in the same articles. Our government and our prime minister as if they were surprised, and here on June 14th, they remembered that for the day of July 1st and the day when they were due to step in, the application of the new Implementing Law began. That's why we've been referred to the emergency procedure of this bill, and it's so badly written that we're already correcting it by amendment. It is interesting to read that this law is adopted by an emergency procedure to prevent or eliminate major economic disturbances. It should be said that this law, that this bill does not prevent or eliminate economic disturbances, but it creates more precisely very serious disorders that can have serious consequences in the economy as well. In fact, the EU's rapporteurs on the monitoring of the opinion are that this is a step back in our approach to the EU. The introduction of public perpetrators should have provided evidence that Croatia will reduce a large number of non-resolved tasks, and implementation of the exercise is important for quality trial. Without effective conduct, court proceedings don't make sense. Dear colleagues, consider whether you should raise your hand to this law because the monitoring report that will follow in October will be crucial. You should know that this report will be crucial for the ratification of the accession contract right in Parliament, the Netherlands, which attaches great importance to the problem of implementation. During the debate six months ago, you defended the delay in the big words that it proved to be true to its citizens, to take care of those who had lost their jobs, those who had not received their salaries, and the instructions were a number of objections to the existing law. There are obviously no more objections today, as only the application of the Implementing Law is delayed, and it should be said that there has been no objections in 2010. because in the Croatian Parliament the executive law was passed without a single vote against. And when it comes to citizens where that concern was raised, when VAT was raised, electricity prices, gas prices and reached a record number of unemployed. My next question is when are we going to introduce legal certainty for people who operate in this area, do you know that more than 20 billion kunas are blocked funds of natural and legal persons who have no employees. How many businessmen or state institutions have been deceived by this amount, how many jobs would have saved those funds if they hadn't been so captured? What will all those who regularly comply with their obligations say about all of this? Poor perpetrators are a practice that is also known in 19 countries in Europe. This actually introduces order in the most efficient way, in 2011, competitions were held, people were selected, exams were passed, many were fired, loans were raised, bought and equipped offices. All of them, as well as those who owe, all those messy ones paid by this law by our Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic says in his style: "Just short welcome.". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10131	Thank you. We have a replica. Here you go, Agent Kovaciæ.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10132	Well, thank you very much. Well, at least carefully, thank you, Vice President, at least I listen very carefully, but I may have heard this blockade of 23 billion. Is that from December 23rd on here or until then, so I'm not that good of a miracle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10133	Thank you very much. And next for the debate, MP Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10134	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. So here we are at the end of this debate which also postpones the already delayed law, the law that was passed in the Croatian Parliament as we heard by consensus, without any votes against, without abstentions. This is the second law in a row, and probably the 10th European Commission's grudge. And it's worrying, if you really want to defi the monetoring, if you want the grades to be negative, if you want to really Croatian citizens who have their incomes, and can't charge them to be without them. Is it really the ones who have Mercedes, fairies, cottages, and they've pumped out of their companies, and they haven't paid the workers, you want to protect them? Do you really work with this delay in the interest of those who have 10,000 executives in their law offices, with ten employees. Do you work in their interests? Do you really work in the interest of those citizens who, as they were said, were unwittingly doing business in current accounts and ironing cards? Do you work in the interest of certain ministers who have also been unwittingly doing business? I am really wondering what is going on, that such concrete laws that have been adopted unanimously in the Croatian Parliament and that will cause damage and collection. I am sure of the Croatian state of all 68 people who have been selected, who have made an oath, who have bought or rented offices, who have set up these offices, who have already gone and chosen those who will work with them, who have quit, given in courts, in their lawyers' offices. And be prepared to take this responsibility that is not grateful at all. Being a public contractor is certainly not a grateful job, coming away from a tycoon or a poor woman. You don't know what's harder, whether he'll crush you or the poor girl will embarrass you and cry in front of you. These are questions that are still being done today by court executives and they are now entering houses and apartments, ringing on doors, looting furniture, looting and what is the basic means of information to a man's television, apparatus radio, furniture, and without compromise charge when he wants it. But there are times when they won't, so they don't come or write, we haven't found him at home, they write notes that no one responds to, and that's how they bypass some laws. The question of all the questions is, why can't I really figure out other than these reasons that I've stated, do we really want to protect individuals? Do we really want to do ourselves any harm, because these 68 people who have passed the exam and the jurisprudence have also passed this public executioner, invested their money, will not remain silent on such nebulises as are passed in prolonging the law. And this first one that was delayed was that these delays of law would lead to a problem of implementation and therefore it was necessary to postpone the application of this law from 1 July 2012 to improve the system of enforcement during this period in order to create a contribution to legal certainty, to the greater rule of law as an ideal for every modern, fair and social state. If this isn't a demagogue pamphlet, then I don't know what to say, while today, on the other hand, it's said that an emergency procedure requires a postponement of this law, just to avoid major economic disturbances. If KONIG is with his daughters, companies and all other companies that will disrupt the Croatian economy, while Croatian security helps him and all other state-owned companies pump into his budget to settle salaries that are less than 3 or 6 months behind. I don't know if it's the only economic entity to be helped or if there are even individuals who have been naughty, and today they're in a position to manage, threaten, warn the presidents of the courts if something happens that will be replaced safely, that others will be placed. If that's how you plan to run the legal system, and its efficiency, its independence, then there's the twilight of the rule of law, and especially the twilight of the social state. This delay speaks of everything but righteousness, not law, not equality before the laws and not the efficiency of the law. This doesn't lead to anything. After the debate on HRT, these two laws, which are united in the debate, talk about that we will not have any legal options other than those discussed by fellow Pedja through FINA, who does not take legal provisions that say that it cannot be completed by over one third from an account or from a salary or from a pension or from any other income unless the client has signed a bank that, regardless of the legal provisions which should not be taken by the banks, but here they take such statements and on the basis of such statements, the full amount takes place. I'd also like to hear from my colleagues from the SDP, the HNS, if there really are your favorites, your protectors, your law firm with 10,000 exclusives a year. Tell us loud and clear. We know them, and we will not be sure to be silent about this because we will be looking as parliamentary representatives for a response from the ministry, a response from all those names about those persons who protect themselves so that the Croatian public knows that in this Assembly laws are passed that protect individuals, which are not social or just. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10135	Thank you very much. We have two replicas, Sandra Petrovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10136	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here is a colleague, Djakic, you said that this ruling majority favors the rich obviously by delaying this Executive Law and hitching off some executive items. You know for yourself that no one is affected by the delay of these laws, that you yourself know that the disproportionateness between income and property is not resolved by an executive procedure. And people who drive Mercedes, own expensive yachts or have fairies of origin explain their assets elsewhere, not in the executive procedure. And in the end, it will explain its disproportionateness between income and property to the court of some jurisdiction, not to the citizen. Believe me, in a very small number of cases, the execution was carried out on property that the yacht was or expensive Mercedes. It is mostly spent on spending houses and television marks by Gorenje from 95. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10137	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10138	Here I think my colleague and I don't understand each other many times, even though I am clear and loud and unequivocal. Workers who did not get paid, and their employer has a villa, has a yacht, has brought the company into bankruptcy or has not brought it into bankruptcy, and does not pay the workers how will these workers be charged? So speak contradictoryly. One is a responsibility to justify property, and the other is what a company owner should do to pay for his obligations and not pay for them. Yes, we have also passed laws which are also a criminal liability for those who do not pay their wages, who do not pay their contributions and everything else. But equally, the poor worker who earned his salary has no opportunity to charge it from the employer who siphoned his property into his Mercedes, into his villa, into his cottage or taken it to an account outside the state. That's what public perpetrators would do, not courts. The courts are just working on the poor houses, on waste furniture, on TV or on the radio. It's what they take, it's what they take, and it's what they drive away. Used cars that aren't worth anything. There's neither one who asks nor one who has nothing. Public contractors would find real valuable property and charge for what the earner expects.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10139	Thank you. We have another replica of Peja Grbin, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10140	A respected colleague, in order for a public executive to be able to carry out an exercise on the property of an employer, it is necessary to determine whether that employer is responsible, which is carried out in a court procedure. This is done, for example, through the legal personality breach institute that we have recently stepped up. For example, this is done through bankruptcy proceedings, i.e. through the protection of workers in bankruptcy proceedings, which we did several months ago, rather than by a respected colleague through the executive procedure. And your view that the courts of the Republic of Croatia deliberately protect the rich at the expense of the poor is totally unacceptable to me. And as for entering the house, would you prefer to have the privates enter your home from the body of the public authority and that privates be the ones to take your machine, radio, or that television brand Gorenje from 95. I don't. I do not want the Republic of Croatia to go through those countries that privatised the military, police and eventually shut down. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10141	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10142	Well, you told your colleague everything, actually, but you've gone beyond what's right. 19 European Union countries apply the Law on Public Executives and do so. That's most of Europe's 27th, that's what we put into action. This is what was negotiated in Chapter 23. That is all that is the positive practice of Europe, and you are opposed to it. You may also object to a court-ordered public enforcement officer for the performance of a responsible person or anyone else being the one who chooses which property he or she will confiscate, and the best thing to do is to take the most unsatisfactory. So the public performer will take the highest quality in order to charge for himself and for the one seeking the purpose. That's what you forgot to say. That's what law offices do on a partial basis. They charge themselves, and for the party many times they don't even care about the poor parties. This is happening in the Croatian public. It's a practice that we can name names and prove to you. You people don't believe it, but I'm convinced because there are, there are also those who, as executives, hired private security companies to go along with the court executives to do what they're looking for, to do what they're outstretched and pointing their fingers at. And it's happening today. This is likely to suit you, and these public contractors do not match you who would do their job better, more consciously, impartially and under any pressure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10143	Thank you. We're done with this part of the debate. I would like to ask Deputy Minister Sandra Artuković-Kunšt to speak to you in a final fashion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10144	Thank you very much. So here I will finally try to look back on this all that has been said, although in a good part of the deviation from what we specifically suggested but to clarify and precisely respect the authority of the Croatian Parliament we want and respect the procedure as it is determined. So, we did not deliver our documents to the European Commission on Parliament because that is not the procedure at the very end of the line. On the contrary, once we have all those powers for which this law and we delay, we will refer the whole bill relating to the regulation of the Assembly's conduct as a body that will discuss them in a way that is discussed and discussed. That recommendation, which we will receive in writing from the European Commission, of course, will be subject to discussion before this body and will, in general, be before the Parliament the subject of every discussion as it should and should be if it is and when proposed as a law. Let's cancel this story about the facebook, and let's say, of course, that on the official pages there are proposals for proposals for our laws. We have changed that idea or vision that the executive system should be regulated in the Republic of Croatia compared to what was negotiated before the European Commission. It is not prohibited, it is allowed and it is possible and we have done so precisely because certain normative conditions have been obtained to enforce in Croatia another way than the one which was imagined in 2010. It's not a whim, it's simply a fact that at the time of the vote of the previous Executive Act that we are now delaying was a situation such that we didn't have a law on the implementation of the law on money. The law came into force on 1 January 2011, and it brought a higher level of quality to the executive procedure in the Republic of Croatia by establishing two elements that allow for enforcement. So by connecting the OIB with the data from the single account register. These two elements, which have no name and no personality, have no elements for any level of protection, lead to the fact that the commission in the part of the payment on cash claims has become effective. This, of course, creates problems in certain situations and causes a surprise especially in the chronology of what we said to the debt industry. Of course there's a debt industry. There is because the payment system in Croatia has been neglected for years and has not been the subject of systematic discussion and decision-making but of something that could be sought by arbitral decision we will or will not, both quickly and in relation to who. The system accumulates by means of the Law on the implementation of the financial implementation recognises the numbers and implements the implementation in those situations when it comes to executive decisions. They are executive because the procedure has passed that the debtor disputes such demand. If it has failed to contest the demand is executive and the State is obliged to ensure for such demand an adequate effective legal system of carrying out the payment of that demand. It is precisely the transfer of this power, the transfer of that authority to force public authorities to search private services for something that is most speculative in this proposed law. The peak of the existence of public authorities is precisely this possibility of making something come true in a forced manner. We think that the system that transfers such power to the private service is not good because of what we have been saying so there is no arbitration and there is no possibility that the privateer who has established his service to be charged from this system that he is arbiting whether and when and on whom and on which means he will execute the demand of a believer who is waiting for him to be effectively charged with what he asked for, and not that he depends on the negotiation. It often mentioned the possibility that public perpetrators would be persons who would agree with the parties, who would be guessing them, etc. The settlement system exists until the search becomes final. When she became the executive obligation of the state to effectively collect. There is more room for speculation if this believer should not be, or the state should not open it and not give it, because its obligation to do so is also to charge for the executive search. In this sense, the system of enforcement through FINA is much more effective than what we have spoken to the private services of public contractors, and what we are obliged to say and if we are now talking about this context, what is the new value of public contractors bring to the system? It's just that they're picking him up. I now have to be a little boring in the legal sense and say that the execution consists of a period of determining the purpose, so we determine that there is some demand that can be charged because the time has passed for voluntary fulfillment. Debtor failed to fulfil the obligation of maturity time for 8 or 15 days, legal deadlines have passed and the search has become final. When she became executive, we have a second period of executive procedure and that is the implementation of the exercise. What public perpetrators do and where they belong is to take over the implementation process. In the current system which functions normally and which, given the delay of this law, is not subject to a single application, we do not separate the procedure for determining and implementing the application. And with this law that we are postponing, we are getting a new stage of implementation and we need to pay particular additional costs to it. The increase in the costs of the implementation and the separation of the procedure to determine and to further implement the procedure makes it significantly more expensive. It is not possible for a public enforcement officer to determine the performance because it is not prescribed by law and it does not take on those costs that the party otherwise has to determine the application of the law. The party should go to the public notary in order to obtain the executive correction, pay the public notary's expense and obtain the executive correction. In order for this implementation to be carried out by the end of the implementation system, a new cost should be paid and the implementation of the implementation should be carried out. Therefore, it is a new more expensive category that is not in line with Council of Europe recommendations which required that the implementation be regulated in a way that is accessible so that the party can submit it that it does not have to pay additionally. And what is also particularly problematic is determined so that the public contractor does not act unless his advance is paid. Therefore, if the believer does not have the money to finance such a type of performance as specified, he will not be able to charge himself because it is therefore his duty to pay additionally for the implementation of the exercise by the public contractor, otherwise there is no performance. It's not the accessibility of the performance, it certainly isn't. And of course, at the very end of the line, this additional cost of implementing the exercise will fall on the back of the debtors and, if we talk about social categories, it is precisely the debtor who in this sphere of implementation of the exercise through a public contractor should pay an additional cost which should not be paid now and this cannot be justified by interests. If we're going to deal with the public contractors we talked about earlier, it's not about people who are out of a job. We announced in time for the delay of the law to be applied. They're still working together. Those who came out of the chamber in relation to the Bar have found the modality of re-entry having no additional costs. And if we're going to talk about the question of eventually their damages and perhaps the impact on the financial impact, the financial impact should have been assessed when the previous law was passed, and as far as this delay is concerned, there is no illegality, so no elements have been achieved to discuss any prejudged damages. There were talks that there were 35% unrealised claims through FINA. It's about those claims that aren't immediately and spotlessly paid. Of course, every party in its account does not have the right amount to collect the demand, and that does not mean that, of course, there is a possibility that later in the second round, when the funds arrive, they will be charged. But it has to be pointed out, it's very important, neither public contractors nor I know which other service can't do that the debtor has enough resources to make all claims in the state there are charges. It's impossible, it's impossible to introduce a service that will now make everything billable. It just doesn't exist. And this statement that public perpetrators would find the right and valuable property on which the search would be charged would not be found because there are registers, there are systems as the property is entered. If it is not entered, and is not entered because the system has been ignored and is not regulated and is not managed, then such property cannot be found by a public contractor because it cannot carry out a performance on something that does not appear to be in the debtor and it is simply so. Therefore, they do not constitute an additional value in the system of performance in any way. And as for the burden of courts, one of the provisions that is extremely speculative and which may actually be a great reason for this delay is the fact that the delayed law foresees that administrative medicines are submitted to courts of the first degree or to municipal courts in relation to the work of the perpetrators. These are the courts that are the most burdensome, which have the most files, and they would, by such a provision, by such a system that we are now postponing, get an even greater amount of cases because there is no doubt that any possible legal remedy would be submitted to the party’s public enforcement officer to continue trying to delay their claim. So the increase in court cases due to the introduction of public perpetrators would be inevitable and that is something that the European Commission considered very negative at the time it gave us a positive assessment of the change in the system to which we are going. Therefore, in order to achieve a balance between the rights of the creditors and the protection of the rights of debtors, the introduction of a private service through the transfer of public authority and the possibility of forced collection is simply not a solution because it increases costs, does not protect the dignity of the debtors, introduces a service that itself finances from carrying out the exercise and leads to no guarantee that exactly this is why the exercise should be carried out more effectively. What is especially seen in the law is not possible to avoid a public contractor, so we were talking about FINA. The law is so well-conceived that the party can't do what it can now, ask for payment through the FINA. No, it has to go to a public contractor, and we've estimated that exactly the biggest part of the public contractor's job will be to represent a transmission between the party's request and the FINA's and it will charge, and there is no such cost today. This walking on houses and the kidnapping of property is a category which should by no means be in the area of private business financed from it, but should remain in the courts, and in that part of the proposed amendments to the law, we have established certain procedural provisions that will protect the rights of the debtor so much as will significantly strengthen the engagement or obligation of the executive to participate in those stages of the proceedings because, if not, the procedure will be suspended. So we put the burden in this socially sensitive part of the implementation of the executive’s activities, but we will talk about it later when we refer the law to a regular procedure. I will repeat, we did not want to be unserious and propose a law, without being with the European Commission as a partner in finding solutions that are most favourable to us, we did not want to go into the procedure until we got such a written solution and therefore we proposed this delay, and this is all we had just said, what we announced as changes will follow very soon. We don't have a clear idea that this will be right up to the deadline that we said because we don't have a crystal ball and we don't act that way, but in that verbal part of the commission, it's almost put it together, and we're one step ahead of you of the final proposal, that is, the draft of the law as we have agreed. An emergency procedure is necessary because if there was no emergency procedure on July 1st, a new law that provides for a completely different system of enforcement through public enforcement than that which is being applied on a regular basis, which directs us to the Agency's performance. And that's the way. If we say that there is a system of public perpetrators in 19 European countries, then we can also say that it has been thrown out with great criticism, that some countries are giving up on the introduced system because, in so doing, they have copied solutions that are not traditionally based on them, on the contrary, which differ significantly. In countries where, as with us, the debt industry has already reached a level that is both speculative and transparent, etc. And this is not a solution to our system, on the contrary, connecting the asset information of debtors through the OIB and a single account register or generally via the OIB, compared to all other registers, is a road that is transparent, which is reliable and which, along with information technology, will lead to this problem of huge debt in Croatia being reduced. Of course it's going to be a painful process, of course people have to face what's very difficult to deal with in view of the neglect of this part, which is that debts must be paid, but we all have to face it. And that follows us anyway. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10145	I thank the Deputy Minister. This concludes the debate. Tomorrow we will continue to work, Proposal for a Law on the Treatment of illegally built buildings, first reading, P.Z. No. 95. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-06-20-0.u10146	Final draft law amending the Executive Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 101. The debate is closed. The proposer's representative accepted the amendment of the Legislative Committee which became an integral part of the law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Anybody got any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes of 78 votes in favour, 28 against and 9 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending the Implementing Law, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted.
