ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13370	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. Allow not too long a brief review of the amendment and addition of the Law on education in primary and secondary schools. Here is this change almost to come at an ideal time since there are several very active weeks behind us in the system of education where 32000 students came to the state's graduation exam, where they completed enrolment in high school 557 vacancy in 2223 classes of which 25% in high school. This is some sum of what has been happening over the past few weeks, and it is certainly necessary to highlight one fact about this year's work of the ministry that may not have been so publicized for the simple reason that there was no problem. In recent years, the headlines of all newspapers, prime terms in the journals have been dedicated to non-functioning e-matrix and testimonial printing problems. This year you have not noticed a single title for the simple reason that 380,000 testimony is printed impeccable, without any impeccable, without any problems, so we have shown on a practical mission that this ministry knows its work and that it does it well. For this very reason, wanting to ensure greater quality in the education system, wanting to enable better school management, wanting to enable more transparent selection of principals in primary schools, wanting to ensure the possibility of strategic development of the education system. We propose amendments to the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools ahead of you. A law on education and education in primary and secondary schools was passed for the first time in 2008. Since then, changes and additions have been passed as many as four times. These are the fifth amendments and complements and hopefully the last one for the simple reason that we came up with a National Strategy for Development of Education, Education and Science for which I expect it to be completed within the next 6 months when, by the basis of this National Strategy, it will then join a different legislative regulation of the entire system which is tasked with ensuring a better quality education. That we need a better quality education we have seen and according to the results of this year's state graduation which is below average free to say. Today, according to the modern definition of literacy, man is written if he knows the native language, if he is informational written, if he rules basic mathematical natural competences and if he knows at least one foreign language. If we look at this year's national graduation results, if we look at the results of the PIZ test of language competencies, then it turns out that our graduates are below average. That is why it is certainly necessary to bring changes into the system of education, the small changes that are going in that direction and this law that is before you. In spite of these numerous changes that took place on four occasions, there are still areas that, based on the information collected and the school, we have found that they need to be changed and more precisely defined. I could group into 10 basic areas. The first vertical pass of the student. So we said that our goal is to allow every child in Croatia to finish the school they want. And of course, if he has abilities, a desire regardless of his social status to finish colleges. For this reason, here we ensure the vertical passability of students, enabling the completion of four-year programmes without paying students who have completed education in the three-year programme. So, they've had to pay that fourth grade by now. These changes will no longer be necessary and this is the key reason why these changes are going by emergency procedure so that since the next school year, all those who wish to complete the four-year programme. For students of vocational schools, we ensure the possibility of completing education in the longer term, given that many of them have fallen out of the education system and have not completed any education. We define the two types of committee to determine the psycho-physical status of the child, which was a common observation from the field, and in this way we think that we will do it in a good way. The amendment to the provision on the obligation to conclude grades at the midterm in the first wave seems to have a lot of debate on this. However, if you look at our web pages I recommend that you look at them are very good quality. All the laws that come to the Assembly on our web pages will find such materials as a summary of all the proposals that arrive at each of the laws. So when it comes to the elimination of semi-annual finals, only five proposals arrived. Of course, those proposals were divided. Some were in, some were against. After more analysis, more conversations, we think this is a good proposal for the simple reason that our two midterms are not even. The first term is shorter. The first semester if you take 9 months to work on some initial check of the previous material, and 12 months if you take to start with this stampede evaluation, it's basically 10 and 11 months to learn new material. We believe that with this proposal, we will allow students to concentrate on learning in the first semester without being the main measure of their work. All remarks that parents will not have information about the objective success of their children do not stand for the simple reason that there is a rule on ways, procedures, elements of student evaluation in primary and secondary school which determines the ways, procedures and elements of student achievement evaluation and which requires that the classroom is required during the school year to hold at least 3 parental meetings in which the review provides student achievements. Therefore, we think that only one rating that in the stampede, the evaluation is, for example, in 12 months, not an objective display of students' results during that midterm and that we ensure that children commit themselves to this first term more learning. One of the remarks, and from practice it happened, I was also a witness to one that happened in the city where I came from, which is that the students who had a lot of bad grades knew how to quit school practically a few days before the end, go to another town and there under strange circumstances take all the negative grades and then go back to the same school where they collected those negative grades. In fact, it was underestimating to people in that school and to fellow students, and we therefore suggested that the time limit be limited for the student to move from one school to another who is implementing the same educational programme, no later than 31 March of the current school year. The conditions and methods of applying foreign language selection in schools are defined. It is very important in these amendments that we allow better quality management of school institutions, especially when it comes to employment, so we propose solutions that are in the legal changes, we affirm professionally represented teaching, so the possibility of establishing a working relationship with people who do not have an appropriate type of education indefinitely is lifted. We also want the founders to work harder to ensure more favourable conditions for deficiting professions to be filled with quality, professionally trained persons. The biggest polemics, the biggest dilemmas, the biggest debates, and now as a minister, I have to do with the selection of principals in primary and secondary schools. So, you remember here I defended before you the amendments and additions of the law relating to the Commission which makes a proposal for consent to the newly elected directors when I clearly told you that there would be no manipulations and that the sole measure of re-election of the principal would be their work, the findings of the Educational Inspection and the decisions of the School Board. If the school board's decision is based on the law, if the Educational Inspection says everything has been carried out in accordance with the law, then I will never succumb to any political pressure, pressure from the Church to undo the school board's decision. And that's how I've been acting so long, so I'll behave in the future. But what we suggest by these changes is that in a transparent and democratic way, the principals of primary and secondary schools are appointed in a way that all members of the School Committee present the views of the bodies they have appointed and proposed in order to prevent the possibility of lobbying and arbitrary decision-making of individual members of the school board. We think that it will be much more transparent now and that we will prevent some kind of arbitrary action by members of the school committees who actually did not represent the one who proposed them and delegated them to the School Committee but represented some of their own personal opinions. And the tenth change, not to list others, which I also find very important, and I said at the beginning that our goal is to ensure greater quality, better quality management in schools, to ensure better quality work for students, but also strategic thinking about the development of education, and therefore, according to our reputation for higher education, we propose the establishment of a professional and strategic body of the National Council for Education and Education. This body will monitor the quality and development of pre-school, primary, secondary education systems and propose a way of improving the system. The highest body will appoint a Croatian Parliament on the government's proposal. Here are those basic changes, the most important changes I've reduced, so five goals in these ten changes. We've seen our students read too little, they're bad at math, they're bad at IT. So the changes are important to us, they can't come overnight. The changes ahead of you today are one small step towards that goal. You know the old saying - I think I am, so Krleža said writing doesn't mean anything but thinking. When you write, you have to read. Our students read too little, so if we narrow it down to one sentence I say reading means thinking. Therefore, we must encourage our students to read more, to think more, to learn how to learn how to learn from the facts provided by their teachers to adopt skills that will result in skills, values, and attitudes, and thus create disciples who will be able to engage in life equally after finishing their school. So, I'm going to end up with another philosophical thought, I'm not philosophizing too much, but I like this one very much, and I think it's crucial, so the real point of learning is burning the flames, not filling the empty vessels – so long ago said Socrates. I expect our school to be that way and therefore I ask you to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13371	I thank the Honorable Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? And I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I've been reported two corrections to an incorrect quote. The first one will correct the incorrect alleged respected colleague Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13372	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, at the very beginning of your presentation, you said the following: by now, you could see in the media how there were major problems with filling the email, the ministry has shown itself on a practical mission this year as one who knows its job. Not the Ministers, the schools showed up. The e-mattica was introduced, and don't underestimate schools, the e-matrix was introduced in the past meeting of the ministry, it was introduced as one
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13373	Can you explain to me what's incorrect?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13374	It's incorrect that the ministry turned out to be good. Schools proved successful because they fill out the e-matrix and they practiced filling out the e-matrix. That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13375	The second correction to an incorrect quote, the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13376	I don't know if I'm going to meet your criteria for correcting the incorrect allegations, but the Honorable Mr. Minister said he wanted to introduce more quality work. Now, for me, that's an incorrect allegation for the simple reason that Mr. Minister in this whole story, I can support a lot of things that you said, you didn't say the key thing, and that's why I think your quote is incorrect, that you can't introduce quality work without additional financial resources. So, at this point, you don't have enough money to pay in your ministry, you've been cut off all your investment funds, and when you say that our children are children.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13377	You're correcting an incorrect assumption that the minister wants to introduce quality work. That would mean you know the Minister's wishes better than him. Because you claim no, it's incorrect that you want to introduce better work, you don't want to introduce better work.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13378	And now I explain that I
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13379	But you can't know the Minister's wishes better than him.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13380	But look, Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13381	But if you want to continue with the inaccuracy, continue until we're done, tomorrow we will lift the correction of the incorrect assumption.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13382	Well, look, Mr. Train, this is how you can stop us from discussing it. So, I said what and then I quote the facts that the minister mentioned in his debate and I claim that this cannot be done, quality work cannot be introduced, you can't do more information education for students if you didn't enable them, if you didn't buy computers by school, etc. And unfortunately, there are still a lot of kids at home who can't have a computer. So, I'm talking about it and these are the facts that Mr. Minister was talking about and I'd very much like to have Mr. Minister in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13383	Now, on behalf of the board, your time has run out of fellow Shucker 12 seconds ago.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13384	Look, Mr. Train, I'll do it if you keep this up I'm gonna look for a break on behalf of the club and it's obviously the only way we're gonna talk in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13385	You can ask, you can speak within the Rules of Procedure of fellow Shucker, like everyone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13386	But look, I'm correcting an incorrect quote, and the incorrect allegation is for everything Mr. Minister said, you don't have the means, and that's the best indicator of your conversation with the unions these days.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13387	It's all wrong, it's okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13388	You can say whatever you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13389	On behalf of the board. Therefore, on behalf of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the esteemed representative Jasen Mesic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13390	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The parent board, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament discussed the 9th session held on 9 July 2012. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Parliament on 5 July. The opening statement was submitted by Minister Jovanovic. In the debate, most board members supported the adoption of this law, and believe that its adoption will ensure a better quality system of education and education in primary and secondary schools in the Republic of Croatia. They also believe that its implementation will contribute to the modernisation of the system with a view to achieving better vertical and horizontal passivity of pupils. They give a positive assessment of the establishment of the National Council for Education and Education and as a strategic and professional body that will contribute to the development and quality of pre-school, primary and secondary education and education in the Republic of Croatia. The opinion of individual members of the Committee that the law in question adopts certain improvements in particular in the section in which two types of committees are clearly defined and set up to determine the psycho-physical state of the child. Discussing the establishment of a National Council for Education and Education, the opinion of individual committee members that this legislative proposal gives them the impression that the Council for the National Curriculum is transforming into the above-mentioned body. It is also suggested to the Proposer that the regulation further regulates issues relating to the acquisition of the right to follow-up secondary education as a regular student by students who have completed lower professional training. Also asked are questions for the removal of grades, i.e. the evaluation of pupils at the mid-term at school institutions. With the ministry's view that the goal of such a decision is, since half-years do not last the same, to facilitate work in school institutions for students and teachers without stress and burden. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture of the Croatian Parliament decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament, by majority vote 8 for and 3 abstentions, to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13391	Thank you. Well, I'm opening a debate, clubs first. On behalf of the SDP club, the distinguished representative, Dunja Špoljar, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13392	Thank you, Vice President, honourable ministers with a co-worker, fellow MPs and fellow MPs. The needs and inherited opportunities of modern Croatian school do not match. It is obvious that our education in some segments, as in a material way lagging behind the Europeans, is not an excuse for failure. This fact is primarily motivation. In order for the gap between the expected and achieved in the Croatian system of education to be as small as possible, a legal framework that is fully clear, applicable and unequivocal is needed. For our students, the future children of Europe have opened up the possibility, i.e. the possibility of teaching in a foreign language. The relationship towards bilingual teaching and bilingual education is in fact an indication that we are ready to accept the positive processes Europe is offering. There is no best school in the world, if such a school existed then all such schools would copy and organise just like that. Such a school is neither possible nor created, it is simply not possible to meet with one solution of expectations that various peoples and various peoples set before school. The way out is in favour of school pluralism and various types of pluralism in public schools. In addition to political pluralism in Croatian schools with developed democracy, school is developing. With this proposal to amend and supplement the door law for the entry of alternative schools and pedal programmes, more has been opened, easier by introducing alternatives into the system. Going to the first grade of elementary school is one of the most important or even breaking moments in the life of each child, as well as parents. For each child and his parents, going to school is exciting, except for some followed by enthusiasm and some fear. For a child, the school is a certain burden and also a task with which the child struggles for many years. Going to school is an exciting step for a child who is ready for school, or mature. The definition of maturity or maturity, or the preparation of a child for school, is very complex. Social maturity simultaneously represents an adjustment to social obligations, the adoption of moral standards, the system of values and behaviour in its environment. It includes the skills of communication, cooperation with peers, and accepting the authority of teachers. Social maturity is a close bond with emotional maturity, it is very important for students of champions, especially those who were not students of kindergartens, and believe me that outside of Zagreb are very much, where they are now expected to be separated from their families daily, to dress and dress themselves, to care for themselves, to be independent and to develop, and to develop school competence. The child will meet new children and adults at school. Children often work in groups at school, which means they have to wait their turn, share things and cooperate. By interacting with other children and adults outside their family, children learn to listen to others, respond to requests and get to know others with their needs. Social maturity is difficult to predict and assess, precisely because of this fact it is very important to assess all aspects of child maturity for school before going to school. We therefore welcome the possibility to postpone enrolment in the first grade of primary school, i.e. the possibility of temporary release from early schooling and the possibility of early enrolment in the first class. So far, high school students who acquired their first qualification to graduate third grade, mostly vocational, have left their regular schooling. These changes offered them another opportunity, this time without paying the tuition year. A vertical follow-up to justice and equal conditions for all is also a proposal to prevent printing at the very end of the school year and to move to another school to finish the class after that. A good part of our lives today, a young child or a girl, in one word a man, because we all strive to spend our whole lives in a school system with the goal of preparing for work, life, and repeating lifelong learning. But the most frequently stated goal is to assume a daily fight for good grades. Thus, the satisfaction or dissatisfaction of the events during school is often linked to the evaluation system. From the first grade of compulsory schooling to graduation students participate in various teaching activities with about 12,000 classes, which is about 8% of the total life of a graduate. The young will be 8% of their lives exposed to the constant observation of their teachers and other experts and constant evaluations of the satisfaction of their activities. It's not the life a man prepares for. It is truly illusory to expect that 100% of the high school population will find an intrinsic motivation for learning, that they will reach out to the book themselves, that they will enjoy discovering the new and the unknown, but should we so easily give up on 1,2,3,4,5. Removing grades in the midterm is a good tool in the hands of a skilled teacher or teacher. The most responsible directors shall be responsible for the operational implementation of these proposals. The director must have extensive knowledge, be able to prepare and maintain a productive working atmosphere, have the ability to observe and assess the needs of each child, but also every parent, every teacher, be the one who provides and guides and does not give orders or give instructions, maintain a secure environment, be communicative and accessible to parents, be consistent, have the ability to work on the team, behave in a professional manner, expand your knowledge and work on your professional development and progress. All of this should be recognised and evaluated in the approach to the basis of the competition by seven people of different professions and interests. Such a proposal extends the decision to bodies, i.e. to bodies, to groups of people whose quality and ability of the elected director is very important or directly concerned. The key word here is transparency, both for the selection of directors and for employment in primary and secondary schools. The previous opinion was not binding as an agreement that the Director of Employment should receive from the School Committee on these amendments and amendments to the law. As I pointed out at the outset of the system of education and education, in particular the primary and secondary education that we are discussing today, we must change. It should improve the material basis, schools and their equipment, textbooks, teaching tools and aids, strategies, methods, models of permanent teacher education, plans and programmes as well as the status of education, status of teachers and teachers, educators and teachers, teachers and teachers, professors and professors, directors and directors, and their place in the present Croatian reality. The National Council for Education and Education is a professional strategic body with a difficult task of improving education and education. For this reason, the SDP will support changes and additions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13393	Correction of an incorrect allegation. Dear Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13394	Your Honor, Vice President. My colleague Spoljar said two incorrect allegations, and I'm going to fix them both not long. In fact, social maturity for enrollment is difficult to assess. That's not true. There's a pedagogical-psychological service that does it impeccably. And she said our students are the future children of Europe. And that's not true. They've always been children of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13395	We're continuing the club debate. The positions of the Croatian Labour Party club will be explained by the distinguished Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13396	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. So far we have had a nice practice of these 20 and a few years that every minister of education who comes to reform education from the head to the fifth from the beginning to the end and does what they say about the noise, makes one confusion, the chaos that has to be corrected Education cannot be reformed by revolution for the simple reason that the consequences of the steps are not seen in a month, not in six, not in a year, but in two, but for 20. Well, today we've got the consequences of the squishy. What Shuvar launched as a system of education in which the calling for what was called joint work, and not teaching children to think, produced a slightly disabled generation, a generation of non-critical intelligence. And now the situation is changing a little bit. I'm glad this minister isn't doing the revolution, for one thing. So, there's no revolution but things change with easy steps, I hope with good thinking. Education reform goals and such moves are always the same. Better levels of education, relieved students, well-bred children and cheaper education. Now that 4 can hardly be achieved at the same time, although you force cheaper education if the state finds that it is directed to save on education, then these first three goals will at least stagnate if it does not fall. A state in crisis times, a country that wants to have a perspective, a state that intends to do something with itself in the environment of civilized nations should not save for education, but should finally take education as the most profitable investment. We talk about it as phrases is everything to me for our children, our children are our future, and the share in the budget and absolute figures from year to year falls. Hey, what's going on now? What kind of future is this? So we're not investing in our future, we're digging up today's holes. There are examples of countries there in the Far East that at one point had a crazy increase in the share of education in gross social production, consumption of food, gross social product, and social unrest. Say South Korea had road workers, hungry, not hungry, I don't know how but they had mostly social unrest, but they didn't give up on it. After these business ten years, it paid off, that investment paid off. Turns out, there's no better investment than investment in people. Easy hall, easy machines, we'll buy it, we'll build it, but if this isn't all expensive, it doesn't make sense. But the ideological school as it existed in the past system and what sometimes, even in some parts of the free Croatia, was seen for the sake of non-critical citizens, and that seems to me to be the first thing that should be removed from school regulations. It seems to me that some of the provisions of this bill of amendments are going in that direction. The school needed in the modern world is not a school that teaches, a school that learns data from which you will come up with a bunch of data significantly larger than your parent had, significantly bigger than your neighbor. It's a school where you should learn how to think, how to integrate those data, how to do, how to analyze what you heard in that school, how to synthesize it into some new calling of yours. That is why our disciples failed in international measures. I had a bunch of data, well not recently, but a few years ago, a son at school, and I saw a bunch of data he had to chew, no smart synthesis. He was smart enough to throw them out of his head. One part of the kids can't do that, and with that bunch of data, they don't know what to do. So it seems to me that the main task of this ministry is to start this process of starting a school that learns how to learn and learn how to think. It's not something new. If you look at high school students 40 years ago, that's how they learned in school. I didn't need to know exactly when the offensive started, and when Tomislav was crowned, was 900 of them or 900 of them. But I had to know how to put this Tomislav in some European context. Today's children know all Croatian kings by heart when one came, when someone left, but they have no idea what's important in Europe, let's say, and in the world, it happened a year when Trpimir ruled and in what context Europe ruled it. But that's what teacher software should be mentioned for, not just children. Perhaps, in particular, a few articles that seem to me to be significant in this law. Article 1 of the amendment and addition discusses foreign language teaching in some primary schools. That's nice and necessary and smart. What needs to be avoided is the art of creating elitism in schools of rich cities that will actually be a step ahead of what the rest of the state can afford. Article 4, earlier or later enrolment in primary schools, based on the evaluation of the expert body, is something that is good and has an entire world. We have to make sure it doesn't turn into an administrative formality. The worst thing that can happen is to stop a genius. A genius needs to be recognized and encouraged, not stopped in administrative devastations. Article 6 talks about free, the minister said something about a free fourth year of high school education. The intensity is fine, kids now after three years have to pay for it that doesn't make any sense. However, children who graduated from three - year - old schools had a different kind of program than those in four - year - old schools. I'm convinced not to doubt it, but I'm sure they can't make it up in a year. No way. In three years, they listened to something called a professional account and did not go much further than a percentage. Now in the fourth year they're going to get math, there's no way they're going to get over it. Maybe the ministry should think about some kind of half-year-olds or something to get those kids to a level that allows them to go to fourth grade, and then go to state high school, etc. This is what happens when people with three years of education succeed because there are no more candidates to enroll in professional higher education and come with this one expert bill to higher mathematics. They don't know the concepts. No one ever finishes high math because they don't know the terms. If we help them, we help them to the end. Turning into another school until March 31st, well, great, it used to be in schools. I remember when I went to school, it couldn't have changed the school exactly after March 31st, and whoever had six units fell in class, didn't move to another school, so he fixed up and went back. This is for both justice and reputation and profession and institutions of good. Article 9 mentions alternative and international programmes. It is something that the Croatian education system did not do much, and should be dealt with. There are strange experiments among these alternative programs, but there are valuable experiments. I am convinced that we have the perfect range of professional people who can assess what may belong to our system and which does not belong to it. Especially this council established, which I sincerely hope will end all those other councils standing inside and that it will be competent enough to plan and make these moves right now. Two repeats of the same class in vocational education, professional high schools, I'm not sure that's a good move. Okay, big drop out, the waste is big in these schools, kids get lost but not for reasons they can't finish the program but for some other social reasons, for reasons of the environment from which they come, and maybe for intellectual reasons, maybe for 1001 reasons I don't believe this will help a lot, just prolong the agony. I don't think repeating the same class twice just doesn't make any sense. As far as this National Council is concerned, we are already a little sick in Croatia from various councils. Agency, council, advice is set up for all. It's good if this National Council is going to end all other councils of this kind, is the state type in primary and secondary education. If it's going to be just some roof organization that's going to arbitration among these lower councils now, then it's bad, and then it better not work, because we're all really in the system sick than that. It's good to define who the teacher is. Clearly, in the law, who can do this job, who continues with acquired rights, and who can't do it. Now, it's not a question of this law, it's some other rule that these people who find themselves in the same job in the same way and rewards. If he's already admitted, a man with no higher ability to participate as a teacher must have a teacher's salary, not 5% lower because he doesn't have that training. If we don't think that's appropriate then let's not put the possibility in there at all. So people who do not have the right equipment are either recognised or not admitted in some way. If they're admitted, they're fully admitted. I was disturbed in article 25. It mentions who can't work in activity and people who purposely committed acts against morality, against children, against family, etc. I don't think it's enough to be intent and stop it sometimes as harmful as intention. And even with the appointment of the principal, this is better than the previous solution, all you need to think about is what these school committees are called. They are today political bodies, bodies that delegate political parties from local self-government. On the other hand, over the past 20 years, some executives have sat down and are not moving from place. Wouldn't it be time to consider limiting the number of mandates, so the school principal couldn't be more than two, three mandates or something. It's been clear in colleges, and it's been working for centuries, I guess. Not in schools, and there have been more negative examples than very good examples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13397	Thank you. I call now upon the esteemed Zelic Schamper to introduce us to the HSU's views.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13398	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers with assistants, colleagues and colleagues. The law on education and education in primary and secondary schools is of paramount importance, so it was better to conduct a discussion in two readings rather than an emergency procedure. This would also avoid a number of changes and additions to what the law is experiencing, which creates great difficulties in practice because it requires constant adjustments, and implementing rules and rules have not yet been adopted. The Croatian Party of Retired Party representatives club supports the proposed improvements to the applicable legal provisions, but after consulting primary and secondary school teachers, we point to the shortcomings and disadvantages of individual solutions, and I will make some of the principled remarks. First, we hold that it is necessary to separate the law on primary education from the law on secondary education because it is two levels of education. Secondly, this proposal does not again address the key issue of the status of director or the criteria of their choice or re-election, jurisdiction and licensing. Thirdly, it is not appreciated that the deadline for the adoption of the school curricula is, instead of September 15th, the current school year as well as the annual plans which are two related documents. It is very difficult until September 15 to establish a Council of Parents and the Council of Students who should be co-creators of the school curricula. Fourthly, there is also no system of objective evaluation of the work of schools, directors, employees, programs and all other activities carried out in schools as well as the evaluation of all employees. Therefore, the club of representatives of the Croatian Retirement Party will try to improve some of the proposed solutions precisely to achieve the purpose and purpose of this law, which is to create a prerequisite for better education and education in primary and secondary schools. In particular, I would refer to the provision of Article 14 which would no longer establish a final assessment for each teaching class at the end of the semester. The profession, professors and primary and secondary schools suggest that the current provision of the law does not change, or that the evaluations remain. They are the only objective indicator of the student’s knowledge, motivate the student to study regularly. The rating is an incentive to the student, but it's also not a burden to the parent. This change would encourage more messy work and would cause great shock for students and teachers at the end of the school year. Students would not need to meet their obligations at smaller intervals, so they would accumulate. We all know that most students learn campaign and delaying their obligations is just a pile of material. In favour of this kind of thinking, I would like to quote the changes made to the students by Bologna. Although students are more mature than primary and secondary school students, Bologna stimulates and obliges students to attend classes regularly and to study regularly. It is also important that a lot of efforts will have to be put into making a new rule on the way, procedures and elements of the student evaluation in primary and secondary schools. A rule that has only recently been changed now would have to experience root changes, and pedagogical documentation of the class book is changing. How the obligation to remain in the law will be fulfilled, and it is related to the writing of success reports at the end of the semester. The argument that a midterm student has too little rating for a final assessment cannot be accepted. The student's oral responses are evaluated, written answers, his efforts are valued, so if he doesn't have three to four grades in the midterm, that's another problem, the teacher's problem. By amendment to Article 18, we propose a different composition of the National Council which will allow for greater representation of educational and educational staff and fewer scientists. We also propose the representation of primary and secondary school directors. We keep the primary school system as the largest and most numerous to be represented. We hope that our amendments will be of extra quality in the application of this law. The HSU Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13399	Thank you, too. Dear Domagoj Hajdukovic believes anything incorrect should be said to correct it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13400	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting my colleague's incorrect quote that you said was a midterm evaluation, so a half-year-old misjudgement is the opposite of a profession's attitude. That's not true. The position of the profession is completely different, but here I will elaborate my interpretation in the debate later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13401	On behalf of the HDZ club, Ivanka Roksandić will speak with respect.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13402	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague. The Croatian Democratic Community Club discussed the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Education at primary and secondary school and at the very beginning I must say that we cannot accept all these suggestions. At first, I must remind us all, and so did my colleague Vuljanić, that the Change Strategy in the field of education from preschool to high school education, with the aim of which education has economic development and general development of society, taking into account all the processes that take place with us and a new view of the education process. Croatia's adaptation to the education system has started with the adoption of the Education and Education System Development Plan in 2005 so I have to take advantage of this opportunity and remind us all that this government has not started reforming education since this year, but that in recent years, a whole series of reform processes have turned, no matter how much some have had a doubt about the introduction of the Croatian National Education Standard into primary school, which was good for us, a state pedagogical standard which was certainly not easy to adopt, and it took great political courage, because we know that the pedagogical standard is always related to financial resources, and until then we had nothing. Introducing and conducting national exams to ensure the uniformity of students' educational achievements and to improve the quality of work in schools. The introduction of state education, the development of vocational education for which I must remind you of the attendance of as many as 70% of high school students, the introduction of lifelong learning and the introduction of artistic education. These are, therefore, the achievements that have also been carried out in recent years and that have certainly led to changes in this fundamental law, the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, as well as a whole series of other regulations. This law was first adopted in 2008 in this form and meant a really big step because it stemmed from all these reform achievements. I must say what we now have before us and what the proposal is. Since the start of this government's mandate, so in these seven incomplete months, the law has changed twice. For the first time in January 2012, the minister said so in his opening statement, when he was bringing and referring to changes in school management, i.e. The way the director was appointed when he was a minister we didn't stand for and we didn't support him as a political person I brought consent to appointments of directors. Therefore, the committee proposed the appointment of the Director was deleted. Here I do not know, and I must refer to a colleague who spoke in front of me and remind all colleagues who are now the government, who were the opposition, together with us in lawmaking, at the end of one year and before the second year of school, that is, at the end of one school year, I remember well how many opponents of such laws were on this side, and I must remind myself that since 2008, the law has changed twice this time for the reason that we have introduced a subsidy for the free transportation of high school students and the second time in 2010 when we have changed the provisions on the rights of directors who did not have satisfactory training. So, something that was really under the emergency, then it wasn't a normal occurrence by emergency procedure, then you objected, and I don't know what changed now, so this is a normal, logical phenomenon that this law doesn't go into two readings, but that it goes through an emergency procedure. I think that at this time we have often had laws under emergency procedure, often in violation of democratic principles we have appointed different committees, supervisory committees all by emergency procedure, changed here in the field of education and recently the Law on the National Science Foundation in order to change the members of the council. However, it is not all that we will object to. It's a good thing the ministry gave up, and I have to say it at first, from some of the announced changes in this law after a public debate. For example, one that refers to the adoption of a network of schools. It is good that you have defined the international programme more clearly than the one proposed in the public debate because it has led to doubt whether anyone in Croatia can create a programme that is not international, but is not standardised either. It is not the one brought by the minister and recognized as an international one. Some of the proposed changes and improvements to the existing provisions of the law are supported. We support the changes relating to the enrolment of children in the first grade of primary school and the timely release from enrolment in the first class, which have more clearly defined what the commission brings. The paper also suggests that students from one school to another can go to the same educational programme by March 31st of the current school year, which really introduces order and reduces the ability to manipulate the completion of the class. We also support an explanation of the continued learning of foreign language as well as that students who have completed three years of vocational education programmes can continue their education in the system of regular students within a year, but I ask that question and ask one question, will they attend the fourth year with regular students in that school year or through some other form of education? We advocate lifelong learning because it is one of the intensities and reforms of this education that we have started. However, whether a student can be employed after finishing the third year and continue to work as a regular student, it is mostly about students of vocational schools. Will a student who does not enroll in four years of education at the very beginning of high school education end four years together with his generation? In a few years' time, do we realize that those who couldn't enroll in the four-year-old's electronics education, enroll for an electromechanist, and thus continue with their generation of further education in the fourth year? We welcome the fact that, is the release of the payment of a continuation of education with a lower level of expertise, but we propose that ministers be strictly governed by regulations or implementing regulations to establish order in the acquisition of the right to continue secondary education in the system of regular students who have completed lower professional training. So that it doesn't happen, there's exactly the manipulations that I've been talking about, the possible manipulations that I've been talking about. We also support those amendments relating to the extension of the status of a regular student in one year if he has not passed the State Graduation or has not designed and defended the final work, as well as the restriction of repeating the class after leaving high school. But there is a large part of what we disagree with, and we do not agree with what the proposed law fully abolishes the midterm's final score which is not good. In school planning, there are two cycles, two half-years, it's not good for a student not to be valued at the midterm. Such an assessment gave the student a motive and concluded a cycle, regardless of which they are not even in one term. The assessment must be the result of student work, it will determine the value of student competences for that period. And we can't accept this proposal. Something that we believe is not good at the proposed law is the way of establishing a new body of the National Council for Education and Education, which should be replaced by the Council for the National Curriculum. As we are already used to in the term of office of this government, ministers, new bodies are being created or body and commissions are being changed. Such a body has 15 members, according to the proposed president and 14 members appointed by the Croatian Parliament on the government's proposal. 6 members are selected from the ranks of university professors and scientists, 6 from educational education, and 2 from the system outside of education and education. But who's going to propose, by what key? Based on perhaps a public call or on the will of the Prime Minister, the Prime Minister, or perhaps even the first Deputy Prime Minister, who we see is in charge of this government exclusively for staffing. So he interferes now and in what is not his portfolio, in social activities, because we see that he also intervened in the appointment of the director of HRT. So I wonder if he'll get involved tomorrow in the appointment of these very valuable members, who have a very large responsibility, the National Council for Education and Education. In order to avoid any politicisation and political action on the council, at least gentlemen need to make a public invitation to propose members of that body. It is necessary to define exactly which members, and I ask why. The government will name it 2 years, which will be 4 years old. And another thing that we disagree with in this article is paragraph 7, it is necessary to specify exactly what point 5 refers to, which says: "It is by its own actions, and it is about the resolution of members of the National Council, if they harm the reputation of their duties.". Because both the current government and the minister have double criteria. Someone may also be paroled, although inequitable, but you have no idea he has violated the government's reputation. And someone's being charged and he hasn't been convicted yet, he's violated the reputation of duty. We have a recent shift from the president of the National Science Council, gentlemen by the same model. I think we need to be careful when we adopt, and the election process for the members of this council. Because I'm afraid again, that it will be again, that it will be respectful again for the people who will be there, re-elected by the political key, and education cannot bear it. When it comes to persons participating in the teaching process as co-workers in the educational work, and they are not independent holders of educational and educational activities. According to your proposal, they are not obliged to acquire basic competences to carry out educational work, so far they have had to do so. I don't think that's good, because even though they don't participate directly in the educational process, they still work with students, they must have at least minimal educational competences. And something that will cause great difficulties in small environments, mountainous, island, underdeveloped, mostly where there is a very high level of professional teacher, will also cause erasing from the law the possibility. That if a teacher from a specific class does not report for 3 years, they will allow a person with an appropriate lower level of knowledge and if she has fulfilled her study obligations in at least 4 semesters at a higher school to work in primary or secondary school. I think it's a question of the survival of small schools like this. There are also some dilemmas, colleagues and colleagues about the appointment of directors. It is good that the director's appointment process must respect the views and opinions of certain voters, of which members of the school board are appointed, e.g. From the Master's Council. But how will they express their opinion, i.e. The teaching council on candidates who are not from the ranks of schools, educational institutions, but come from the sides, they don't know them. How, then, the Teacher's or the Teacher's Council will give an opinion on these people. I'm afraid the school board members will affect them again. And finally, as we believe that some of the proposals of this law are really good, some of them are not, ministers won't be able to support everything. But first of all, I have to tell you in the end, you're gonna be a real wizard. That's why you said in your explanation that there is no need to provide additional resources for the implementation of this law. How are you going to secure funds for some of the things you've introduced in this law? Since you have already reduced the budget for education by 350 million kuna, you are sending already less funds for decentralised functions, and you expect local environments, counties, municipalities and cities that are really hard to fill the budget from ourselves, because of the economic situation, to be involved in solving these problems. You're saying there's no need to provide additional resources, and here's just two examples. We support the right to continue regular education of students under professional training, he will be free of charge, how will you secure the money? We also support the extension of a year of those who have not graduated, who have not passed the State Graduation, or have not passed and given final work, to continue to be regular students for a year. Which is very good, but that's also what the ministers are looking for. The Minister's financial resources are nowhere in this proposed law, and we really need to show our mistrust in all the proposals of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13403	Thank you very much. What the HDSSB thinks about this bill will tell us the distinguished representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13404	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools with the Final Proposal for the Law. What the HDSSB club certainly supports was its starting point in 2008. The year was changed in 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 so every year we can say this law deserved or had a need for some changes. A clear definition of the situation in primary and secondary education, conditions and the European environment of Croatia, as well as the preparation of the entire system of how primary, secondary education or higher education is necessary for the Republic of Croatia, because certain solutions on current legal proposals have proved insufficient and some difficulties have been identified in teaching in primary and secondary schools. What the HDSSB Club can support in this final bill is certain that certain proposals of this law create preconditions for better education and education in primary and secondary schools and make adjustments to the system primarily in favour of students and then education systems as a whole. We support and conduct classes in one of the foreign languages chosen by students and continued learning foreign language when students leave primary school to go to high school. We also support solutions that allow parents to temporarily enroll students in the 1st grade of primary school and later enrol students in the 1st elementary school if there are reasons that are legally justified. We welcome the definition and creation of conditions for two types of committees to determine the psycho-physical status of the child when entering the 1st grade, that is the Professional School Commission and the other Professional Commission of the Office of State Administration in the County, or in the city of Zagreb. We also support the possibility of free follow-up for those students who have completed three years of vocational school which they have so far had to pay or lost the status of a regular student. So we consider these legal solutions to be good that after the completed vocational school, you can continue free of charge of regular schooling, but we also express concern that there will be no abuse in this part. So that's where we need to see if everything by law is well-defined so that it doesn't turn out that the state pays for something that shouldn't be paid. But in any case, a student should not lose the status of a regular student just because he graduated from vocational school. It showed itself in the system of higher education at the Faculty of Law that some students who came from vocational schools showed exceptional knowledge in education even more than those who came from other, say, high school where more knowledge was expected. It depends primarily on the individual and does not depend on the system as a whole. What we can also support and need under this bill is this deadline with the 31st of March of the current year, so that abuses can be prevented so that in one school year, the status of a regular student can be changed and this example, which states that someone could change the school 1st of June, so that in these less than a month, the status of a regular student can be resuscitated so as not to treat it as a repeat class. We consider that a good legal solution. We consider it a good legal solution to the implementation of experimental, alternative and international programmes in secondary schools, which we consider to be the European environment that Croatia needs to create on its own. What we're a little worried about, and we don't think it's good, here's my teammates from the club tell me that such a legal solution was in the '80s, and that's that there's no way to get grades in the midterm, but grades are done at the end of the year. Here we are concerned that this continuous monitoring of students’ success in primary and secondary schools can lead to difficulties, above all, for the students themselves. What will happen if a student who does not show a sufficient level of knowledge or has poor grades at the beginning of the year often does not have an evaluation, reporting, there is not enough frequent study of all students in the class that is not possible, which will happen if that student relaxes and that at the end of the year fears that more people are falling year because it shows bad results in the evaluation. Working at Law School we had a system so a student can only pass the exam once, can pass it or fall. When we introduced a system of colloquium evaluation of this test material in two or three times, students gained the impression that they were constantly learning to keep track of the material, thus getting better grades on the exam because they were more often laid and taught the test material. Here it can happen that the student relaxes, that without parental control, and we are aware of the time and moment in which we live and modern technologies and more or less students are increasingly young people on the streets and in the late night life, this monitoring and misjudgement at the mid-term creates a serious danger that a complete failure of the system can occur. We're pushing for that midterm rating system to stay. Also, the establishment of a national council for education and education, which will be appointed by the Council of the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Croatian Government, can be seen as a proposal that can be partly good but can be dangerous. Does this mean creating another council as a parallel system of the Ministry of Science and Education? What about the existing councils and agencies? Will this national council come from this parliamentary majority of SDP and partners and will this national council be the extended hand of the SDP? Is it really necessary to set up a national council in this form? Won't it be a political body? Will the council members have professional competences to be appointed council members? That's where we express our concern in that part of the law. We can't support this establishment of a council. As far as the election system is concerned, we also express certain concerns. The solution that was made in the previous bill also had partial shortcomings. This agreement between you ministers and this way of appointing the director under this proposal can create certain difficulties, so we are concerned that this solution is not very good. If it can be done better by the end, we can determine it by amendments. What is certainly important and important, and it is important that the system of primary education, the system of secondary education depends on what I said at the beginning and on high school education. The system of elementary school needs to be changed anyway in this part of the law and the previous proposals show that it is. What we also express concerns and doubts about is that there are not enough financial resources in the state budget for 2012 and in the projections for 2013 and 2014 and there may be dangers that these proposed changes to the final draft law will not have enough financial resources to be achieved, and even in this part when this transition is made possible, maintaining the status of a regular student from a professional three-year school to a four-year school. We also stress once again the difficult system in the system of primary education and secondary education because as much as we place a burden on students that students must follow the system of therefore modern education in the European environment Croatian teachers, those on whom the greatest burden is still the worst paid in the state and I do not think there is enough success if there is not enough financial resources to pay for teachers who need to implement these programmes. So the Government of the Republic of Croatia and we all representatives of the Croatian Parliament should find additional efforts to make this system pay in primary and secondary schools and high science better because a good teacher will also be good to the student, a good lecturer, a good grader, a good educator if it is adequately paid. There is no quality system of education, there is no quality system of science, so there is no quality system in general in the country if those who need to carry the burden of this society, and in this case they are teachers in primary and secondary schools, are not adequately paid, we suspect the result of success and reform and new changes and modern solutions. That is why we call on the Government to ensure, first of all, that when it announces this kind of change, the means for these changes to come to life, so that those who need to carry out the burden of these changes can systematically and adequately improve primary and secondary education in the Republic of Croatia. The HDSB club will support, support those proposals of the laws that are good and which improve this trend of European education in the Republic of Croatia, and for those reasons why we said we could not support the law in the vote we will be abstentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13405	Thank you. Here is also the position of the HNS club, respected Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13406	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with an associate. The HNS Club will support these amendments and additions to the Law on primary and secondary education and we believe that this is the right way to improve the education system in the Republic of Croatia. Just as my colleague once said before me, so we're not advocates of revolutionary reforms, which in some previous times have been large damages, and as someone said, have ruined our entire generations of young people, but for this very way means that we're trying to continuously improve the entire system, and there's no need for us in HNS to be rigid in that part that's about to show up tomorrow that it's not good and that it should possibly change it in walking. Education is, of course, living matter, given that this system is something that is the life of all of us, primarily the life of our children and our young and most of us are fortunate to be parents, but of course, that care and great obligation to provide children with the best possible future. One of the most important things is, of course, education, although I would say that health comes first, that through education we can provide children, but of course also the state whose children will be full-fledged citizens when they become adults, to ensure progress and an equal chance. Of course, it is the state that must set up a quality framework and these changes that we have ahead of us are certainly an improvement in this framework. For HNS, it is absolutely acceptable in these changes and additions, especially in that part that has actually caused direct injustice throughout the system to both children and parents, or entire families. In the first part, it means the possibility of early enrolment, or delayed enrolment in primary school. Of course, this is the first encounter with education and it is certain that each child must have the option, or parents must have the opportunity to make the right decision with the help of the profession, with the help of a bold system when and how to enroll the child in the first class. We also welcome the definition of retaining the status of a regular student and enabling the continuation of education in a four-year period without paying tuition. That, too, has been an injustice to us so far. Of course, we must give everyone a chance to continue their education on equal terms. We are particularly pleased with this provision that will prevent manipulation. Unfortunately, we have probably, most of us as parents met with these situations that it is possible for some to end the school year because of the poor success of changing schools and, by some miracle, to finish the same school by the end of the school year despite having passed on a whole series of negative grades. It's something that, of course, our children felt like a great injustice within education, and this is, I'd like to commend, an excellent proposal, a great move. As far as the National Council is concerned, we also consider it necessary to think strategically about education, one body that will unite and try to suggest to the competent ministry and also us here in which direction education should go. In fact, we currently have a whole series of agencies and various committees dealing with this topic, unfortunately one good part of them is not at all in accordance with the Ministry of Education that we, once in the regional self-government, felt often as a problem because, let's say, our agencies are completely independent in some situations of thinking and the objectives of the ministry. That is why we support the decision to form the National Council for Education and Education. Some small doubts we have, namely the minister said them, some small doubts we have about the selection of directors. This is something that is often broken by spears, and we are aware of the fact that politics has always tried in the past in some way to create a system with which it will most easily reach so-called. his principal, his political director, of course. This should be prevented, and this is one attempt to prevent it, means that the whole process is democratisationd in a way that the Teacher's Council, or the Council of Parents, in a debate during the vote, is a secret vote set out by its representative's position on the school board. That's a good suggestion, it's very democratic. But honestly, Mr. Minister, as you probably do, I don't know if it's going to work out well in practice. And it could happen that this whole system is giving us a significant amount of time to choose the director, while they all agree, as they vote, and in what way they're going to do it at all, and finally it could get a big, media-wide attention and that they might have problems there. But since we haven't had an ideal model so far, and this is some attempt to try the whole story more democratically, we'll see if it's going to be successful, so if it turns out to be successful, we keep going like this. If not, let's think about how to improve that part. Because I'm saying, there were a lot of models. So far, none of them have been very good. What I would like to say in principle on behalf of the Croatian People's Party that we have our school, our education especially basic and high school must turn into the place where children want to go and the place they like to go. Also, that place, that school must be the place where our teachers and teachers feel good about themselves. It's a prerequisite for our education to be good. What we all notice is that unfortunately our schools are getting less and less involved in parenting, or almost not at all, but not because they don't want to do it, but because they don't have time for child rearing. We have a big problem here. Our burden on our children with overcrowded programs. They're not the only ones who are burdened, they're professors, of course. It's just that some sort of eight - hour morning or afternoon term doesn't cost everything about the program, and it's hard to even talk about education. We have to go that way to get the school into one shift. We hope that some projects run by the ministry will go slowly to solve this problem, so that they can adequately introduce outside of school and school sports activities in the right way and that they can focus more on raising our children. It will be necessary, of course, to find the right measure between these overcrowded programmes and education and will need to stop practicing to compete with schools, and in particular high schools, literally compete as we put more burden on our students than we have seen, and on the example of this year's graduation, which, by the way, is true God was more difficult than the previous one, for which we do not know exactly what reason. We see that the results aren't good, so let's say the children who went to specialized math high school averaged a higher rate of mathematics with enough success, which is absolutely unacceptable. So there's an urgent need to change something. What, then, about other schools, or schools that don't have such programs as math high school. We're all stressed, the parents are stressed, the students are stressed. To enroll in schools, mid-terms, high school graduations, school graduations. I mean, our school can't be stressed. It must be in one normal system because otherwise we stole our children's childhood, and our parents, or people who have children in schools, we created huge problems and riots throughout the system. So here we support all of these proposals as an evolutionary approach to changing the state of things and we hope that we will often talk here about education and education, that we will often do the right messages towards a better system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13407	Thank you, too. This is what ended the club debate. Minister Jovanovic asked for the word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13408	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I thank all the club representatives for the proposals, constructive criticism. I would repeat once again that despite having had 4 amendments so far, certain provisions of our law have not yet clearly defined a whole series of issues in primary and secondary education. And we have approached these changes precisely at the request of primary and secondary schools. So this was the main motive based on information from primary and secondary schools to try to define and fix those solutions that proved to be aggravating factor in improving the quality of school, organisation of school work, school management and ensuring social justice for all children to have the same chance of completing their education and continuing their education. The public debate that was held showed that our proposal is of quality. We got the truth with a number and a letter of 282 omens and 350 different suggestions. And I recommend you read this booklet that you can find on our web pages, where most of these proposals did not refer to the changes that we have offered, but to some new, new issues that should be addressed, of course, what we will appreciate in the creation of a new strategy of development, education, and science that I consider crucial in the long term for the future of our education. In discussions of distinguished representatives of clubs from Ms. Špoljar, Mr. Vuljanić, Mr. Šemper, Mrs. Roksandić, Mr. Salapic and Mrs. Nada Turine Đuric, therefore most of our solutions are supported. I thank them for that. As for some dilemmas around, the most frequently mentioned dilemma was whether financial resources were provided. They did. Therefore, the implementation of these legal solutions does not require additional financial resources and everything where an additional financial means was required we did not include in this legislative proposal. Not only that, although this year's budget has been reduced it has not been reduced for the key projects that we are introducing so that we are starting in experimental high school since autumn. We've been actively preparing e-registration since the next school year in high school. Of course, we have to do it now where we will make it important to facilitate the way we enrol in high school. Something like that now that all seniors can enroll in colleges. As far as the evaluation is concerned, I believe that the debate will continue to be those who are in favour and against. I can really tell you the truth that you're working here somewhere half-a-half. So half and teachers and teachers and parents and children think it's good, and half are in a dilemma. We have discussed this with both the profession and the ministry and the public debate and the Round Tables that we have all the time. We organized a whole series of round tables a few weeks back with the goal of the waist telling us what we need to do to make teaching more quality. From the teaching of history, the teaching of mathematics, the teaching of nature and society, the teaching of Croatian language. We have analyzed the letters of tests that tell us why our children are worse than their peers in Europe, and why they are better than their peers in Europe for their knowledge of foreign language. So these are very important and interesting data that can show us the direction where we see that the obvious problem is both in the follow-up and in the way it's taught in the content that hasn't changed. All of what we've offered in our legal solutions goes in that direction. Therefore, the elimination of the midterm does not mean that children and their parents will not have any passing time. So we don't cancel the evaluation. The teacher is still obliged to evaluate children, but we end the conclusion because at this point we believe that the first half is less sensitive than the second one is one bureaucratic method, a stampede of evaluation that leads to stress and teachers and children and that it is not an objective display of their knowledge. And that's why we're staying on that proposal. As for several respected club representatives, he spoke of fear of the possibility of abuse of the 4th-grade follow-up. Of course, we will deal with it through the registration decision and through the implementing regulation as proposed by Mrs. Roksandić to prevent any abuse because what we want, we want to ensure that these children are passing through. So someone decided to go to a 3-year-old school, but in the meantime they realized they actually wanted to study, so why not allow it to be on the burden of the state, without its parents having to pay, so far there were not many such children, so I don't think it will now be a stampede of enrolment in the 4th grade and thus increase the rate of Croatian citizens who have finished colleges. I remind you only 18% of Croatian citizens are highly educated, and Europe 2020 wants to be 40%. We are far from that figure, but let's try to get close to at least some real frameworks for the Republic of Croatia. Here, as far as the amendments are concerned, we'll be making a statement by the end of the debate on the proposals that have come.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13409	Thank you, Minister. On your exhibit, we have two corrections to the incorrect assumption. First responds Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13410	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, Mr. Minister said they have insurance... [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13411	A microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13412	Someone's shutting down. For reasons it is apparent that no funds are provided for wages to increase those 2.7% of 1.08. It's also whitening now, I guess, for everyone in Croatia, that when budgeting, no funds are provided for regression, Christmas, a gift for children and everything else. Thus, with all the good wishes to change in school and solve certain things, it will be practically very difficult to do with those who know that at 12 months there are not enough funds for their salaries. Another thing if you reduce funds for investment and for material provision of schools then it is evident that you cannot raise the technical level in these primary schools and, most importantly, you cannot reduce them to a certain level so that all primary and secondary schools in Croatia are practically at the same level of technical equipment. First of all, I mean IT. And I think that's the key thing when we talk about this law. Is that whether the financial resources are provided and for what we have at this point?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13413	Thank you. And the next amendment, Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13414	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It is incorrect for ministers that the implementation of this law, this new proposed part, does not require financial resources. That's incorrect. Article 6 is referring to the continuation of education for students who have lower professional training, and paragraph 2 says that the student may not quote everything within one year of the date of completion of the training programme continue to study in the status of a regular student. We know for ourselves that you have said that certain financial resources are needed for this because the student will no longer pay for such a continuation of education himself, which is good, but indeed in the state budget it must then be provided for all such students. Now, at this point, they're not even planned in the state budget. So there will be problems with law enforcement.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13415	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13416	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. Let me begin my presentation with a little modification of wisdom by a great Greek philosopher more than 2,000 years ago. If Croatia does not have good carpenters, the Croats will be barefoot. If Croatia does not have good tailors, the Croats will be naked. But if Croatia does not have a good school system, ladies and gentlemen, Croatia will not be. It's my belief and it's a belief that I believe you all share that the school system is extremely important. Why does it matter? Because the school system is raising new generations, raising young Croats and Croats, raising a new generation of responsible citizens, parliamentary representatives, doctors, teachers, workers, farmers. I agree with a colleague from the HNS when she talked about raising in schools. Unfortunately, in our schools, there is less and less education, and there is an increasing emphasis on education. But I would like to remind you that at this moment as we speak there is a strategy for development of education, science and technology in the Republic of Croatia. What I think is important, colleagues and colleagues, is that what we want in school and what we want from school, that is, in which direction we want to focus Croatia should be a matter of consensus. And I am glad that in previous discussions many have actually agreed with some of the proposals put forward in this law because I do not view this law as a reform of education. This is actually repairing the state based on feedback from the system. Since I worked alone in that same system and my suggestions went exactly in this direction, at least in part of what is being corrected in this law. So let me put it in my opinion some items and why I am for what they change by this law. First of all, to enable the completion of the education of vocational school students who end in the status of a regular student for the fourth year. In one part of my professional life, I worked at Davor Milas Commercial School in Osijek. It's a school that educates children for two titles, but significantly different. So there's a merchant direction that's a 3-year direction and a commercialist direction, a 4-year direction. All the students who meant themselves from the direction of the trader, from a 3-year-old direction, who proved to be good students, who thought about their future and after school were usually writing down the difference, means this different fourth year, if we're talking about the same school to get the calling of a commercialist. We must remember that children at a very early age must choose which school they want to go to. Some of them may make a mistake, a mistake they may become aware of in the third grade of high school, when it is too late to return to their schooling, but it is not too late to finish some difference and get the right to attend colleges. Because here's what my colleague Salapic said, and here I can agree the same thing is very individual. So, you don't dictate I'm choosing students at the beginning of which school they're going to go to or whether he's going to be a good student or a bad student. It is his personal approach to work and his personal approach to learning. The time period of school transfer is limited, and I'm glad we all agree on that. So I have examples from the same school. What we teachers, teachers, experienced as a shower, first of all when students miraculously ended up in other schools, even with good successes until they could do it with us. And then you're really wondering if there's a problem with us, if we're such bad teachers. Which is not the case, and that is my responsibility. I believe it's a good step in affirming professional teaching. Education should be professionally represented, especially people who have been trained to work with children, and with children it is difficult, responsible, but believe me, it has its own, many advantages. So, first of all, I agree that most teachers in our schools, primary, secondary, should be professional. As for the mandatory conclusion of the grades, here's a colleague from HSU and I talked about it the same way as the debates went. So, the attitudes are divided, but I was when I said this correction of the incorrect quote, I was focused primarily on basic school, where I worked most of the working life. The conclusion of grades is a very stressful period for students, but also for teachers. I don't think a half-year grade conclusion is crucial. So, as the minister said, the grades will remain. Students are evaluated, their grades are listed, parents have the right to see these assessments, and they can also know how, what success their children have achieved during the first period of education, or mid - term. Whether this can be solved by an informal memo of the school, in which the scores obtained by the students in certain cases will simply be numbered at the end of the semester, it will be a matter of school. But in principle, this was done before, although we were obliged to conclude the grades and enroll them in the student books, then there were the E-books. Of course, it is necessary to review the evaluation system itself, and I believe that this strategy will also do the same for development of education and education. When I talk about it, I especially mean class classes, so the first four years of learning, and for a number of reasons. First of all, it's hard to evaluate children at that stage, to put it that way, schooling, but by the way, those are mostly 4 and 5 grades. I think it would be much better to just in the early days, meaning that early schooling, that the grades are described, because that way the grades will better show and direct the student towards better goals. So, for example, if we talk about the first or second grade, let's say the Croatian language, if the student has a four, it's obvious that there are some difficulties. The descriptive assessment would therefore guide both students and parents who are problems and what to work on. The foreign language is, therefore, also some of the provisions about learning a foreign language have been changed, which I am also very pleased with, since I have been teaching a foreign language myself. First of all, the conditions of choice are defined, namely in some of our schools there is a policy of choosing the first foreign language, so to speak. A rotating policy which means that one generation for the first stop language has, for example, English, another generation has German. Problems arise when students are transferred from other schools or if they repeat the class. So if a student whose first foreign language was German, repeats the class or comes to that school and encounters the situation that the generation in which the first foreign language comes is German. The question arises, so how to solve this, is the student then forced to learn German from which there is not enough knowledge or to go to an additional English course to continue learning it, etc. So that's one big problem that has been so far, I'm glad that it's legally settled now and that the students continue with their first foreign language they've been learning since the first grade of elementary school. Because otherwise, there's a big problem for both the student and the teacher. Bilingual teaching is also something to be welcomed, since our children, our students, will soon be on the European Union market. They say you're worth as much language as you speak. We already have examples of good bilingual teaching projects, i.e. parts of teaching done in a foreign language. Here is an example, as an example, of the 2nd high school in Osijek where part of the course is performed in German and gives really excellent results. I am proud to have finished this very school and that my fellow students who are now finishing this school are achieving excellent results precisely from learning foreign languages. Also, I'd like to end it, and I'm glad to introduce a more quality legal framework in decision-making on the school board. In fact, some logic states that if you represent the School Board either the Parents' Board, or you are a representative of parents or workers to consult, that you are bound by the attitudes of your parents, i.e. chambers, teachers, school employees. So, that you as a representative, for example parents can't go deaf to the attitude of parents who, for example, want an x person, not y person for a director, because they have the right to cooperate. It is certainly a democratic step, since their opinions are respected, but I am also glad that there is now a legal obligation to do so. Here's a colleague, Roksandić, said there may be some doubts, how to do it in practice, but there's a meeting of the Teacher's Council, there's a meeting of the Council of Parents, it can be done that way. So, in conclusion, this isn't a reform, these are just some changes that we're bringing in so we can apply them from the next school year. I think they're good quality, and that's why I'm gonna support the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13417	Thank you, too. On your exhibit, he had three reported replicas. The first is Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13418	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Just two aspects of the discussion would look back. You told your colleague that there was less and less education in schools, that's true, but if that education wasn't incorporated into education then he didn't represent anything, he didn't represent anything in that system when he listened to the basics of Marxism and Tips. It represents nothing today, when children, almost all children in Croatia have religious teachings. And they certainly listen to honest and good things here, but it doesn't work. If in the teacher's behavior, in the teacher's life, his work with children is not corporated, corporated, and raised with the knowledge he carries, perhaps even more, perhaps even more. If you skip some information and don't teach your children a writer, nothing terrible would happen. But if you give him a bad educational example, a terrible thing will happen. Teachers are becoming harder and harder to set a good educational example because they themselves are not important faces in society. The reputation in society and contribution to society is measured by pay. The teacher's salary is to place him in the last place among civil servants and tenants as you will, so do the children. And the second aspect of you said you were finishing your midterm, I didn't say that when I was speaking for the club because I don't consider it important. It's a stressful conclusion, maybe. It's stressful if a teacher makes him stressful. The teacher can make the evaluation process such that it is not stressful at all I've done it for 33 years, and it depends on the teacher. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] A good teacher knows his student's grade after two months.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13419	Thank you. We have a response to Domagoj Hajdukovic's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13420	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, a colleague can agree with you in the section. In fact, the problem is that it's probably the problem that evolved in our schooling, the problem is that our school education system is first of all conjectured in this factographic part. So the whole class is well-conceived and it revolves around transferring information and adopting it, while this educational element is completely neglected. We also have objects whose only purpose is, in fact, the main purpose of this educational element. Physical and health culture, art culture, etc. Faith, Ethics, etc. But I am afraid that all these items are therefore insufficient and their contribution to bringing education into school. I also agree with this observation that the teacher should also be facilitated with his example, but I don't think I would agree with the fact that the impact in society can only be measured by pay. If you look a little into the history of teachers, the teachers were unfortunately never well paid but they had some status, they were experienced differently, so some other social norms were absolutely different. So I'm afraid that... the deeper the problem you've touched that is not only about schooling but about social values in general, which unfortunately we can't influence with one law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13421	Thank you. We have the next line. Stephen Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13422	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Hajdukovic, I expected from you and this time, like every time, you come out with some new idea, maybe with some recall, because I expected that once you said finally, the second time you said hallelujah, and today I expected it but somehow this is getting to you with hallelujah. We will see tomorrow how you will praise God when the law on assisted insemination is voted. But you said another idea that if there was no education in Croatia if I remembered well the good education that Croatia would not be. I will say that there were no Croatian defenders of Croatia there would be. I appreciate your thinking in this sense, therefore, professionally, that education needs to be improved, but we certainly need to look back on that material part. Without enough resources in school, it's very difficult to implement. If the budget is reduced by that amount, we all have various projects in our midst. I in Koprivnica-Kryzevci County we have a craft school that has been passing through and trying to build for years, I believe you will find a model, but of course in rural areas even more. In today's circumstances when rural areas are in an extremely difficult situation, the municipalities are also. The funds have been reduced at all levels; counterpart Hajdukovic's funds do not have enough. And in that sense, I would like to warn here that the funds are necessary to improve and spatially, etc. This model of public-private partnership, etc. which is offered he is expensive, overpriced and I think for many environments he is very difficult to perform. Well, in that sense, I expect your support to be on that part, and tomorrow we'll see you on this first issue of what I was saying. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13423	Thank you. We have an answer to your replica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13424	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Milinkovic, I'm sure I'll scream something out when we pass the new Education Act. But these are just changes and supplements, so here, let me be a little calmer after all. So you said the Croatian defenders you mentioned, their contribution was undeniable without further ado I do not want to challenge it but I will also remind you that the Croatian national consciousness, as it was being held, was being transmitted because we know that Croatia has been part of other countries for many years. I will mention the contribution of Franciscans who kept in the framework of schools primarily Croatian, Croatian language of Croatian custom, Croatian culture anyway. I will mention the Illyrian Revival, Croatian Revival, etc. So these are all the contributions that went before from school, folk readings, literacy, etc. That's what I meant when I said if we don't make a good school system, it won't be Croatia. And I'd also look back at what you said, so you mentioned the references and the laws we're going to make tomorrow. Well, colleague, there's only one institution that's going to tell us to judge our actions and that's God. They will judge me and you and all of us here. They will judge both the bishop and the beggar and the king and the vagrants alike. I'm going to vote on my conscience, and my conscience tells me that, Mr. Milinkovic tells me that for this law, I'm also telling me that for the Law on Medical Aided Insemination because I can't have on my conscience that I've made it impossible for someone to have a child. And that's why I'm going to sleep quietly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13425	Thank you, too. And the last replica of Ivanka Roxandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13426	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Hajdukovic, you have inspired me to give you a replica just by introducing a philosophical thought in the introduction. I'm sorry you didn't think that way about making a state budget. Indeed, there is no education in Croatia without increasing resources for education. It's not all about the money you said to your colleague Vuljanić, I agree with you, but I'll look back at that educational component you said. It's hard to discuss parenting now. It's really a complex area. But you will surely agree with me that all of us who participate in the educational process, above all, teachers and teachers, and also the minister, that is why we have asked if you remember the vote of confidence. We need to be people first. The first to set an example for our students. I'm sorry that a Swiss woman lifted that educational component, just like that. The Swiss woman switched everything to education and forgot to raise. And since then, we've been struggling in schools. I've been at school for 35 years, and we're struggling in schools to raise that educational component. It's not people's fault, that's when it's the process. And third, you said the conclusion was stressful for teachers at the midterm. Which is why it's stressful at the midterm and at the end of the year when you have one whole period, one whole teaching year ahead of you then it shouldn't be stressful. But that depends, my colleague Vuljanic said very well, and I won't repeat it, it really depends on the teacher, whether he will make the evaluation stressful, whether he will implement it just to issue some number or really participate in the evaluation of competences. I know there's an inequality in the evaluation, that it's hard to determine these evaluation charts because yet every teacher makes part of the evaluation of his subjectivity.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13427	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13428	But you can't say that it's stressful in the midterm, and in the end it's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13429	Thank you. Here is colleague Hajdukovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13430	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I agree with my colleague, Roxandic, when she said, you mentioned and... but I believe that's not the only reason. So this lack of education is definitely an evolutionary problem, so the problem that has evolved in our education. And now we could talk about why it's like that, and why, but I think it's much more important to talk about how we're gonna get it back. But, well, we're not discussing it today, but I believe it's an important thing to mention, since we're certainly still going to talk about education. Yeah, I'm standing by my statement that I'm holding that closing a midterm is stressful. It's stressful and at the end of the year, I'm not running away from it, that's what my colleague Vuljanić has to say. So one of my professors said about two can easily be rated, everything else are nuances and that's where it comes to me at least that stress. The assessment is not only an assessment of knowledge, at least in primary school, an assessment of both the approach and the attitude towards work, the attitude towards others. And anyway, in many cases, let's say that you have an element called mutual communication, or a culture of communication. So I agree with you here, and that's exactly why I think it's stressful for a professor. I wish all my students had fives, colleagues of Roksandić, but it's simply not possible, it's not fair to them because some simply have a better attitude towards work, learn more, learn better, learn better, others don't. And I think it's stressful, it's stressful at the end of the year, and that's why we should, why do something stressful that doesn't have to be. It's not stressful for me, but thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13431	Thank you, too. Vanja Posavac, here you go, my colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13432	Thank you, Your Honor. Honorable ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. The aim and purpose of this law is to create a prerequisite for better education and education in primary and secondary schools, but with a particular emphasis on adapting certain provisions in favour of students. In fact, the law that was passed in 2008 has already experienced several amendments and additions, but the fact is that there were still some ambiguities between teachers and parents and students and this law will finally be determined I would say certain rules and methods of work. I particularly support a provision retaining the status of a regular student and those who have completed three years of education. By now, these students had no longer had the status of a regular student after the end of three years in high school, and if they wanted to continue their schooling and enroll in the fourth grade, they had to pay for it. In addition, these changes will allow students who have acquired lower professional training to have the right to acquire medium professional training by continuing education or passing exams. I have to say, it's a significant number of kids who really wanted it, but their parents didn't have financial resources. There was also a second problem, that in fact this fourth year, the fourth grade belonged to adult education not conducted in all secondary schools. So if the students wanted to continue the fourth grade, they had to go to another city, which automatically created additional costs and problems. Whether these students will have a difference in exams, they will, but they must also be aware that they will have objects of difference and that they are expected to learn and work. It is the least expected if they receive free education and they are obliged to return it to both their parents and themselves, and also to the ministry, that is, the state and all of us who invest in it. I welcome the very same provision that defines the possibility of exams from school and switching to another school no later than 31 March of the current year, because it really happened that the students were writing on June 1st, moving to another school, ending, and what was happening next. That it has created confusion with teachers who have actually warned for years that such practice is not good and that it is bad and I welcome the introduction. In this way, precise rules will be laid down and teachers themselves will no longer be in doubt what to do or put them in one truly ungrateful position. Of course, there is an exception to moving students, and in that case, of course, the student will sign up and enroll in another school. As far as the midterm is concerned, it's kind of the most question this time. I believe, however, that the elimination of the mid-term, hence the mid-term evaluation, the final evaluation, will reduce the tensions that occur at the end of the first term and reduce the pressure on teachers, as well as pressure on students. Let's face it, the fact is that the last two weeks in the first semester spent the most on correcting grades and at least on quality work. Although some teachers say they will now have no means to force students to work, let's face it, and let's face it, because I worked at school that most of these students, most of them, honor the exceptions, and in the second half, continue such practice and again at the end of the second half, presses. The student must receive the grades continuously. I'm aware that in cases that are one hour a week it's harder, but it's not impossible. It must not happen that when Mom closes her midterm grades, she wonders how she has such bad grades even though they should actually be seen throughout the semester and throughout the year. I also welcome the establishment of the National Council for Education and Education, and I express my faith that it will contribute to the quality of the preschool, primary and secondary education and education system, which will, of course, lead to a greater impact on students. The new amendments to the selection of directors will allow all who participate in the educational process in a school to decide who will be their boss and I think this provision is very good in the law. With everything else that this law adopts, changes and changes, I am convinced that this law, especially because in time we adopt it, will, in fact, be practical and absolutely support all these amendments and additions of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13433	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first one was Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13434	A respected colleague said that the intention of this law is a better system of education and education. However, sufficient resources have not been provided for this more quality system of education and education in the state budget. At the same time, we have a situation that by changing and reducing, the mini tax reform Linicev, that decentralised funds have decreased, which went towards schooling by 2% and there is not a single school in the Republic of Croatia which, based on these decentralised funds, does not achieve a significant loss of funds necessary for the normal functioning of teaching both in primary and secondary schools. We live in the 21st century. Many schools, therefore in the Republic of Croatia, have no conditions of education in the 21st century. They don't even have a reduction in these decentralised funds even for those basic needs such as sponges and chalks that we don't talk about computers, not to talk about teaching aids, funds, etc. And unlike you, many of you have specifically assessed this draft of the Law on Education and Education by changing this law with a superficial or a result of ignorance regarding the network of schools where the entire units of local self-government have been excluded. So here's how we have a case where in Jelsa, the direction that's tied to the hotel industry has been lifted. It's probably going to be open somewhere in the Dolobabs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13435	Thank you. Replication response, please welcome fellow Posavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13436	Thank you, dear colleague. Here, I'll check to see if that direction in Jelsa has been lifted. Now I hear it hasn't been lifted, but I'll check for evidence. And here I was talking about the law, so which in practice is doable. The minister was talking about finance. Also, now I'm surprised. Your colleague Salapic is, in fact, if I remember correctly, and I followed his debate about 80% of the things he said that you support, and now you say that the law is superficial. The waist says it's not. There was a lot of clarity on this law. A lot of them got involved in the public debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13437	Thank you. Next replica Drazen Djurovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13438	Thank you. Well, here's what you've had in your own debate, and I'm not going to say a certain skeptic but certain doubts about the amendments to the law on that, in the sense of Article 14, that the elimination of evaluation at mid-terms. You didn't do it so directly, but you're still implying whether or not you've shown a certain reserve in some way, so I'm actually sharing that reserve. In addition, I would have reminded you 30 years ago in the early 1980s, that's exactly what was done in the former Yugoslavia. A descriptive evaluation was introduced in the lower grades of primary school. This failed experiment lasted several years and was completely unsuccessful and rejected 30 years ago. And now, 30 years later, we are relaunching an almost identical model that has already proved to be a failure in this space and in some previous generations because it has not encouraged competence. Because it was hard so it was written he was industrious, this one was less industrious, he was better at writing math, he was counting, he was a little weaker. But the students didn't get the basics. They did not receive some system of values that could be compared to both the general standard and each other. So, in a way, that system of describing whatever he really is. I think we're this system from one to five that's been living in this space for a really long time, that there's no need to experiment every few decades and determine if it's better not to. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13439	Thank you. We have an answer. Here you go, fellow Posavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13440	Thank you. Well, I don't know if you listened to me or if you're using the replica here to see you a little bit in the Parliament. I didn't have any skepticism about that question. I don't have a backup on midterm grades at all. I said clearly and loudly that I believe that the last two weeks in the first term are exclusively correcting grades. There's no education, no education, no new materials, no repetitions, nothing but pressure from students, by teachers, by parents. And so, that's exactly how it's gonna be avoided. The evaluation must be continued. From 9 months on, the student must receive at least two grades in the midterm for each of these reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13441	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, colleague Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13442	Article 214 was injured where the representative was offended. I'm asking you to give her a warning. The MPs are not here to be seen on HTV or on Assembly TV, but to discuss the laws. And if the MP thinks this is extremely educational what she just said, then I believe we can see where this Law of Education is headed, so please note.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13443	Okay, I wouldn't take that as an insult, more like a comment. But in order for me not to subjectively assess I refer you to, I find that there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure to the extent that a warning is made. But I would like you to direct you to your colleague, Vinkovic, by written means, to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, to your observations, or to your request for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13444	So I would ask you to provide me with an expert associate who will write me these requests for, according to the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, since I have no time to lose and see where the new Rules of Procedure will lead. So, it's all clear. I will not direct and ask the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure because it is obvious that the cadiya is going to sue you, the cadiya is suing you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13445	That's your subjective opinion. That's exactly what I wanted to rule out my subjectivity for more people to study, see, have a ton of notes and be able to estimate. And I believe you also have quality people in your club who can do it for you. If you're withdrawing the breach of the Rules of Procedure, thank you. We're continuing the debate. Next is Ruža Tomasic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13446	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. So says one anecdote, parents invited him to school because his son in the first grade had all the units. From mathematics, from Croatia I don't know from nature and society and he says to the teacher, "Tell me just how much of the rule is there?", he says, "Well, it's great, it's great from rule," said the parent, "Well, you see what I'm learning at home has an A, and what you're teaching it has a unit. So that's your problem." Unfortunately, most children are not like that. There are children who have been raised at home, and there are children who have not been raised at home and who need to get that education through school. We have a law here on education and education in elementary and high school, but I don't see anything about education anywhere. Perhaps there should have been at least one article about this education that we know or that these teachers know what they will stick to and whether the ministry is behind them when they try to conduct that education. We have kids in the first grade who can't tie a shoelace. We have a case where a teacher had to tie a girl's shoelace in the first grade, a small one, because her shoelace was untied and the teacher was on the Teacher's Council, discussing why she didn't tie her shoe properly. So he has to decide exactly why the teachers are at school. Are teachers in school to be parents, to be breeders, to be ignorant of nurses, counselors to do everything. Children are full of information about conventions and children's rights, but children are not taught obligations. To ask children at school now what their obligations are, they have no obligation. They're here to learn, and it looks like they're learning if they want to learn and if they don't have to. Because there's no punishment. So here's even, I don't know why we're afraid to punish children? Teachers are asked to raise children, but they've been taken away from the tools for rearing them. So, no midterm grades, no unannounced exams, no exorcisms from the class if they're loud and if they don't listen, no pawning units. What's up? Here you are even punishing us because some have abused the correction of an incorrect quote and are now abolishing the correction of an incorrect quote. So that's one punishment for the MPs. So there's some kind of punishment for something everywhere. Only our children have no punishment. So how are we going to raise those kids? We may think that with education, they will gain and raise, so you have highly educated people who are scientists, who are very good at their jobs, but have no basic education. So, with education, there must be education. It's just that this child has to know what he can't, what he can't, and he needs to know that there's a punishment coming and he needs to know that he has to endure that punishment. It's the only way we're gonna raise complete young people. You now have teachers and teachers who are actually afraid of those children. If the son of one of the known politicians in the seventh grade tells the teacher that he is a... And that he has nothing to talk to her about because she, imagine she's not at his level because his father is a famous politician. Teacher shut up, she can't do anything. What's he gonna do next? You think someone's gonna raise that kid or teach? They won't, but they'll give him good grades to go through, no more problems with him. Then when they finished high school, let the children not write or read because they were so mean, teachers and teachers were so afraid that they simply looked from class to class to cross all those stairs to get rid of them as quickly as possible. We didn't do anything that way. One of the teachers who sued the principal of the school that boys insult him in the second grade to tell him everything the principal says shuts up or looks for another school, is looking for another job because you won't ruin my reputation. So, I repeat, we took away their training tools, but we ask them to raise children and ask them to simply teach those children to do their job. Can't a teacher or a professor do his job if he's afraid or he's gonna cut his tires like he's done before, that he's gonna break his car, that he's gonna hit him with some kind of broom on the head or bench that's been so far. Do we have the strength to establish discipline and punishment for these children? Because we know very well at home what we do with our children. So it's not physical harassment, it's simple if a kid breaks up something at school doesn't have to pay it because parents may not have the money, but a child can do it in a sense to sweep, to wash, it's not a shame. But believe me, every child who's forced to do it won't do it again. We're in charge of raising children, but we're afraid. And now those kids are giving us orders instead of us giving these kids orders. And then we're surprised that we're having this many burglaries, that we're having this many robberies, so of course when they didn't finish school. You said the same thing about children having the same chance of education. They don't stand a chance. If you have a quiet, quiet, withdrawn child who is a very good student and if you have someone who is harassing that child from day to day, and that doesn't fit on the tail of another child, this child will pull out, won't learn, will watch that he doesn't often go to school. It means he doesn't have the same chance for education. I would pray if it were really clean, brief, and clear to teachers and teachers what I can do, in what way their education at school can be conducted. But then the ministry stands firm behind them, that the ministry doesn't pretend like it has no idea what it's about, that it punishes a director who won't allow an investigation when something happens at his school. Because when we put things under the carpet here's what's happening to us today. And we wonder what kind of children they are? So why not? Well, you know for yourself that you or we when we were little that we let ourselves be freed to do everything and everything. But we knew of every particular procedure followed by punishment. So let's go be responsible or if we don't say nice things to the kids, do what you want, if you're going to learn, if you won't, but we can't do anything to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13447	Thank you, too. We have four replicas on your exhibit. The first one came from Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13448	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, I think it's very good that you've turned your attention to this debate, this legislative proposal, to raise. However, and of course I agree with that, and we all agree that there must be limits in every education. But is it just punishment and I don't know what you are, what kind of punishment you were thinking at all, okay? I think that education should be answered, that is, when rearing it, it is necessary to make sure that others are respected. It's something that in our society for many years it's been on very low branches. I think the large capital has imposed on us new behavioral regulations along with the basic message of greed is good. So, when you have this, it's young people, regardless of whether an individual or another fanatic of such solidarity education, for respecting each other, will be characterized by a child in their midst as one who is a loser, who is not going with a new way of acting. And that's why it's commendable, that's what we've been asking the ministry itself for years to introduce an over-needed school course for civic education. I don't know what they're going to call themselves, but in any case, the subject of democracy, of peaceful conflict resolution, of accepting another in its diversity, of its other nature. I think that these are the basics that we can agree on then and that many things will then be clearer, and have solid foundations for something that, on which there is a consensus here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13449	Thank you, too. We have an answer, Comrade Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13450	Thank you very much. Well, we have colleagues in society, he says we have democracy, but we've all forgotten with democracy that responsibility is coming. So democracy is when I want to do what I want, and it's not democracy unless I'm allowed to do what I want, but forget to tell me that I have a responsibility with democracy. So we children teach that they can, that young people are able to decide with their own heads, but we don't teach these children responsibility, because every child from kindergarten has a responsibility. So, a kid in kindergarten or first grade doesn't have the responsibility to cook, to clean the dust, to vacuum, but he certainly has the responsibility to do his homework, to clean his toys, to clean his room at his level. But we don't talk to these kids about that responsibility, but we tell the kids you have a right, you can't be yelled at, you can't be bullied, you can't be bullied, you can't do this, you can't do this, they can't do this, they all know their rights without responsibility, because we don't force them to learn responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13451	Thank you. Next replica, Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13452	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleagues, in my presentation, I also mentioned education and I believe that you actually touched on a deeper problem. So we have a deeper problem in society that is not just about the education system. It is a problem of value in society, it is a problem of value and it is a problem of consciousness, because raising us is not punishing, raising and raising the level of consciousness. These children must become aware that they are not learning about grades, but that they are learning about themselves, learning about their lives, that these things will benefit them one day. So whether it's going to be 5, or 4, or 3 is completely irrelevant. You know, and here's my colleague, Roksandić, she said the assessment is relative, so the evaluation is not always, perhaps, a real reflection of that knowledge. And I agree with you that there's always a line to draw, but what I think you're saying is, first of all, it's a matter of home education. So domestic education needs to create that consciousness and to create those values, which unfortunately do not exist. Children's behavior is also a big problem, and that's where I agree with you. And that's where I keep it, so that the teaching subjects should, maybe get a little bit stronger in that segment. Besides, you have that one, at least I think it's the best thing in my life, "Don't do to others what you don't want to do to you." So, kids, if you don't want to be harassed, don't harass anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13453	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13454	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague and I agree with you, but we're adults, we're the ones who make those laws, and we're the ones who need to make sure those laws are implemented. So, we tell the kids now you have to behave well, you have to listen, but if you won't do anything, because we can't do anything, we're no example. And what you said about that raising coming from home, yes. But if there's nothing to raise, that raise has to be learned at school. It's like you're getting drunk at home, and a cop can't get you anything that you drive a drunk car because you've been drinking at home. You broke the law because it's the law. That's the same thing, if you're a child molester, so you can't tell a child and you've learned it at home, but it's at school, it's such a law and you can either stick to it or you'll suffer the consequences. And then these young people will learn that they still have some consequences for their behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13455	Thank you, too. The next replica is Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13456	Well, Vice President, well, esteemed colleagues, here's just a few short thoughts like this that came to me from your debate. In fact, you've touched a series of problems that occur at school, of course they exist. And also colleague Hajdukovic pointed out here that they were developing, in fact, with the system of values that we have, we have to admit it in society. However, it is very trivial and rude to say that in the very meeting of education and education there is no education. There is, teachers, a large majority of teachers are very responsible and are doing their job thoroughly. In this work, too, they strive to set an example for their children, to give examples of how they should behave in their lives, in fact, how they should approach work and, in general, all the problems they face. I'm sure the school system didn't start overnight. It's been developing for years. And today there are many problems in this system. If we remember the HNOS that introduced a lot of good changes, however, today has not come to life, simply because teachers are confused. Because they require great discipline in the very conduct of the process in terms of the content they have to spend with children, because later on, if the teacher takes a little too much freedom there, then it feels that way at the prom, here's the special thing, you see the results of the state's graduation. The truth is that there are teachers confused and that this problem will not be solved overnight, but I say again we must point out that education in schools does. And of course, I agree with you, what teacher one spoils won't fix ten cops. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13457	Thank you. We have an answer. Here you go, fellow Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13458	Thank you very much. So you say coworker there is, growing up there. How many teachers do you have? Or they're afraid of their parents, they're afraid of whose parent, I don't know which politician or politician, how strong they are, and if that teacher is going to lose his job. As long as the ministry doesn't stand clear, short and clear behind the teachers, it won't happen. Because you know, you've read thank God the story of how harassed the teachers are by the students and they're nothing. So, I repeat, we say to these kids, "Please behave, please learn, please go to school, but if you don't, unfortunately I can't do anything to you because that's the law.". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13459	Thank you, too. And the last replica Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13460	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mrs. Ruza Tomasic. Well, you know what, I'm bothered by your constant desire to repeat that there are politicians who are responsible for everything, in a way you're insinuating the reputation of politics. You're like the best politician without sin, we're all kind of, so I'm saying that the least politicians who intervene in school for their children are just because they're public figures and people hesitate to intervene. And Mrs. Tomasic, I believe that the least politician intervenes in school, because of these, at school for his children, and for these reasons. And don't do that again, please. And growing up, it's not possible at this school today to practice education, in England they've tried or tried colleges, but it's more expensive. We haven't matured enough materially for such a system of education yet, so there's not much to talk about. It's a matter of trying, but it's not possible for a thousand reasons. And what I was about to say is, this government needs to understand that education comes from the family, and so far, by the general development of relations in society marriage, the family is being destroyed. This government also helps to destroy the system of values of marriage, which is given by the family, which is an education. And that's the fault of this government. But let's get back to the scale of things. I want to tell Mr. Secretary, take this opportunity. All this stuff that we've been saying here today, and what we're going to say is 1% of the problem in school. And to improve the education system. 99% of the problem is a large volume of materials, Mr. Minister, and a poor system of interrogation. This volume of material cannot master an average smart child in a normal way. You need to cut the material mechanically for 1/3 immediately, you need to change the interrogation system in a way that whoever wants to get great he needs to recite one book each page, per station, every letter by letter. And those two things make 99% of the problem. Until we do, we will not improve the education system.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13461	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, please welcome colleague Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13462	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a fellow I can proudly tell you that I've got no tails on politics, really, really, no tails. But I've never told you politicians, I've always yelled at me politicians. And what you're saying is that the least politician is simply not true. Who in Croatia deserves or is to blame that the situation in Croatia is like this? Who's doing all this? Politicians. Well, look, someone from Mars didn't come to us and tell us how we should behave, what laws since the 1990s have been made by politicians and politicians, and unfortunately, you can see the laws so far and where Croatia is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13463	Thank you. Minister Jovanovic spoke of the word.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13464	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So let me get involved since this bloc, which was attended by MPs Hajdukovic, Roksandić, Posavec, Tomasic, Žagar, Vinkovic, was actually marked by the question of the educational function of the school. So it is clear that there is a school with the family a key place to raise children, and we should even say that it begins with kindergarten. Aunts in kindergarten should teach a child to tell every good day to start. The question is, how much does that work? It is of course also related to the modernisation of curricula and programmes. Modernisation of curricula and programme is crucial for turning Croatia into a country where the economy will be based on knowledge. But as part of you here said it can't be a revolution and can't be done overnight. We need to change the content of our curriculums not only the content but also the way these contents are taught at school, and what we agreed on in the discussions while I was representing, of course, the need to introduce some new items. First of all, I mean education for civil society and democracy, civic education and education for health, health education. And by doing so, we are moving already in the autumn, and it won't take another kuna, because it will work through an experimental program, and when it comes to civic education, it's moving from the 1st grade of elementary school to our idea, it's our model that civic education or better say education for civil society and democracy in the first 6th grade will be a teaching that will go through all other subjects one hour a week, in order to become elective in the 7th and 8th grade, and in the 1st and 2nd grade of high school mandatory subjects. I am convinced that such an education against which I do not know who can have something that will enable children to understand themselves better, to understand themselves to develop their emotional intelligence and then to appreciate better those with whom they are in the class and of course their teachers, their parents. We will become a society in which both hooliganism and racism and discrimination on any basis will be less. Through such training through such education we will get generations to understand and what politics is, which is a political responsibility and we will certainly have better politicians, better call the Croatian Parliament, better government. At the same time, who can have something against civic education, against health care, health care education when we have recently received the freshest research that has shown that our students are amongst the EU's worst primary and secondary schools, that they never eat fruits and vegetables, well someone will say no money, but why is it that every five-year-old student aged 11 to 15 doesn't brush his teeth? Who's to blame? Are they parents? They sure are. But obviously it's not enough. So every 5th child in Croatia smokes but does not brush teeth. And then someone tells me we don't need health care. We need a health education that will be in schools as an experimental object from next year and where healthy life habits will be adopted, to prevent obesity, diabetes, heart disease, addiction. Of course, we also prevent sexually transmitted diseases, teach children sexual responsibility for all forms of violence. Thus, the ministry can encourage the introduction of education for healthier society, education for responsible civil society. Besides today, the purpose of life and the ideal of every society is especially society run by the Social Democratic Government to be free, and freedom is the only real idea of freedom, freedom from fear. And we can only be free of fear if we are educated and are healthy, without it there is no freedom. And there is a fundamental role in education and education in primary and secondary schools, and that is why in this government these two subjects will certainly be introduced into the education system, and then our school will have a more educational function than it is today.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13465	I thank the ministers. Next up for the debate, Ante Babic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13466	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Raising and education do not provide only education, but regulation, awareness, responsibility and creativity regardless of the degree of education. For this primary and secondary school education is not only enough, Mr Vuljanić and Mrs Roksandić spoke of it, it is irreplaceable. Learning is a natural process, spiritual growth, and creating the same as physically does not make a difference. Breeding and education in no society should be neglected, they are a reliable indicator of the social stability of its strength and duration. Those successes certainly don't deserve underestimation. On behalf of the club, she was expertly elaborated by her colleague, Roksandić. However, from the opening presentation of the Prime Minister’s proposal, we have heard some basic questions that are governed by this law, so I will taxively state and express my political position and opinion. You said in the introduction that no one noticed from the media about e-mothers, I guess, e-mothers or e-mothers. And that's good, it's good that there's been technical improvements and that's certainly not bad. But you said that about students of vocational schools and repeat classes if I remembered correctly that the student could repeat the same class twice. I don't think that's good, that such a student actually needs to change the program and focus, that's what should be based on. The committee to determine the mental state of the child, and you talked about it and you said it would now be the school commissions and commissions of the state administration's office. Personally, I fear what will happen if one commission approves the enrolment and the other does not. Amendments to the provisions of the assessment obligation at the mid-term. We definitely treat the students to their harm here. The school cannot be completed without pain, and with pain we gain knowledge and an old Latin proverb says that in knowledge there is power,.../The speaker speaks Latin./... This reduces the quality of work and learning. If the student does not study regularly, then at the end of the half-year he wants to respond or to raise the scores of the accumulated material, which is normal because it is confused, not all cases can be answered in a few days. The evaluation is related to enrolment in high school and it actually goes to an adjective of domicology which the student shows his ignorance already at the first middle of high school mostly by poor grades which you can check almost at all secondary schools. That's why graduation results actually talk about the real state of students' knowledge. Well, you too, Mr. Minister, when you went to school, not all the students in your class were great. We had in class three, four, five tops. The others were very good and good. Why should we all have to finish State's graduation, why, not all of them have to be greats. And this grade of state graduation today it actually shows a real state, it's our reality and you don't have to be ashamed of it. To make the right selection of elementary school students would be easier in high school and therefore the evaluation must be the result of something rather than the cause. The fact that I also experienced it, children who graduated from music school, elementary music school, high school in elementary or high school have a good or very good education which is not good, which is certainly not good and should be taken into account. I welcome the transition of students from one school to another, that after a certain date they cannot be spoken of, that's what counterpart Hajdukovic was talking about, and I think that's a good thing. But if this is not happening, it is certainly necessary to strengthen the work of the pedagogical professional service, it is very important for each school, and it is, in fact, the key that the student consents to master the program. I welcome the choice of a foreign language, a colleague of Roksandić spoke about it, and I don't think it should be changed after primary school and in high school because then it's losing quality and it's certainly not good. More quality school management, that's what you're talking about. In this regard, I am obliged to tell you something about the management of school buildings, we have also written to you on behalf of the Split-Dalmatia County, and I do not know how much this has reached you, but it is a very serious problem that awaits you at the beginning of the enrolment of the new school year, and this is about the following. This pedagogical standard falls by more than 30% at the expense of material costs, i.e. an increase in energy prices, which will happen in a larger number of schools, i.e. by increasing coaches. The railways and the increase in energy will pose a major problem in the Split-Dalmatia County. I think you've been informed of that and I'm asking you to do something about it. The transparent and democratic way of choosing the principal, you talked about it, I may not have heard it all the way, but it seems to me that I heard you say that he wasn't going to choose from the school board himself, but also from the teaching board, or from all the employees at that school, and that's certainly good. You said there wouldn't be politics, churches, and that's good. It's a good thing that this director is chosen from those he's working with, with those he's working with. In particular, it would be good for these principals to present their programme and explain how they want to implement the program in that school. That would be very effective. We used to have a council for national curricula, and now it's going to be a national council for education and education. I'm giving the possibility that this might be a good thing, actually, to make one strategy from preschool education, primary school to high school education. However, it may be necessary to think about it, and it should not be easily rejected to strengthen the educational and pedagogical service. I think they're the measure of everything and they both know experiencedly and professionally about it the most. If they're still reinforced by inspection services, I think it'll give you good results. It is clear that I would personally be pleased to reach an agreement in this home on such a strategy as you are talking about. But let us not forget, every knowledge, skill, and habits are acquired by learning, and this should be repeated over and over again. Learning is a prerequisite for knowledge, and learning is a prerequisite for work. Everything a person manages to achieve in this short and long term is solely due to learning, knowledge, and work. And in the end, for me and for my principal who raised me I remember he always said, he called the school... a house of joy. If a child goes to school and has butterflies in his stomach or... in his throat as we say, a knot in his throat, refuses food, which is actually going to work at school. You should take care of that, especially your ministry. If it reflects the brightness and joy of the child’s atmosphere, he is happy to go to school. So let's not all do anything to make our children hate school with their behavior. Parents who make a child happy go to school I think they did 50% of his studies, his education, his schooling. Because you can't make a man out of a kid in first grade, we all know that. It's a process that lasts with both teachers and parents. That's why the teacher's material security, we've been listening these days to the union talks that no travel expenses will be paid. I ask you, Mr. Minister, I really ask you to take care of this because how to have a professional teaching representation, I will return to my Split-Dalmatia County in which of Vrlika, Sinj in Dalmatia Zagora, Imotski or Vrgorac, as well as islands near Split and Brac and Solta and Hvar, how to fill out the professional teaching if we do not get teachers, teachers from Split. Normally, they're dislocated and it costs money. If they were to do so or were to be deprived of their travel expenses, it is certain that this would go to the heart of education and education and an unsatisfactory teacher is not a good teacher. So I ask you in these mountain-mounted areas of that school that have mountain-mounted status to take special care of such matters. If that's done, we're on our way to shutting down and certain places where we live, where our schools, our churches, are the basis of all that. That's why I'm saying it's supposed to be our goal. And eventually being a teacher is more than a profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13467	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Ivanka Roksandić first answered, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13468	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Babic, you really invited me to this replica through your thinking and the lack of professional-pedagogical service that is the basis for good school education. I don't know how we're gonna go any further if we're talking about the material standard. You said he fell in all schools of Split-Dalmatia County. He falls in all schools of the Republic of Croatia, in all counties. Because in this year's budget we adopted most of those who could do this, which means the government is 350 million kuna less for education. It may seem irrelevant now, but it's very important. We have increased in the meantime, as said now in a replica of counterpart Vinkovic, we have passed mini tax laws that have reduced both the revenues of the county and local self-government, the cities and municipalities that are founders and who are tasked through their public needs to take care of the school. They no longer have any additional funds and almost on the hood I'd say they give schools, give them, give them basic public needs. We need to be aware of that right now. The funds have been decentralised, you can't tell me they're not because those decisions were made in the government. And I wonder if we're going to end up or not and I'm not going to talk about the material receipts of teachers and teachers. Because someone here said this is really an honorable job that they do and they're not teachers and teachers of people who always watch how much money they have in their pocket. They sometimes carry it out of their house and buy it themselves because they have no basic accessories and paper. That's what teachers do. I'm afraid by the end of the year we're going to miss more than these 350 million kunas.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13469	Thank you. And the next replica Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13470	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's a colleague I'm glad you noticed some changes going towards greater teacher responsibility in the selection of directors and you mentioned that directors should present some kind of program. I couldn't agree more, I'd just get to the point where it's important to control the implementation of that program. Because a good program can write anyone or someone else can write it to him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13471	Thank you, too. Next up for discussion Martina Banic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13472	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I believe that many will agree with the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has remained consistent with itself and the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Education in Primary and High School, which confirms by the final proposal of the law we are discussing today, consistent with the fact that we are passing the law according to an emergency procedure which has become a common practice, and I note that the Government has remained consistent with the staffing. In fact, the bill also announces the establishment of a whole new body of the National Council for Education and Education whose competences and competences will be part of the ministry's affairs, part of the activities of the Education and Education Agency and part of the activities of the Agency for the Education of Adults. The President and members of the National Council shall be appointed by the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and the Council shall also be the advisory body of the Minister for all issues from pre-school to secondary education. I read that this new body could be parallel to the ministry. The National Council also has 14 members, of whom 6 members from the university professors and scientists, 6 members from the education and education system of pre-school, primary school and secondary school education and two members from outside the education and education system. This raises the question of who are these two members who are outside the system and who will determine them. Will they be designated by a public invitation, or will it be left to the minister? It seems to me that this way we will return politics to school, which is certainly not good. Raising and education do not suffer political interference, and we must all agree there. I remind you that a few days ago in the Assembly we discussed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science, and then many of us pointed out that the proposed law changes most in the humane sense. And today I repeat, it's not good to change laws to do human transformations. Furthermore, I would also refer to the provision of a law that abolishs a midterm evaluation. I agree that it is not just for the sake of grades and learning to live, and I agree that it is important to change the goal for which children learn. But the rating is often highly motivated for students, but it can also be an alarm alarm. But I would also like to point out some improvements that make a proposal for this law. Among other things, it has been common for students to switch from one school to another at the end of the year because of their negative grades. The problem was solved by a provision that could be carried out by the current school year by March 31st. I welcome this provision as well as the possibility of teaching in one of the world's languages with the approval of the ministry. The conditions and methods of applying foreign language selection in schools as well as how to learn a foreign language in case of transfer of students to another school are also defined. This law allows a student who goes to another school to continue learning a foreign language that he learned before he moved to another school. I would like to conclude that, from 2005 to today, much has been done to improve the quality of education, many reform processes have been launched in education. Of course, we are not fully satisfied and that in the education system he was in primary or secondary schools there is always room for improvement in both systems. We often neglect that the educational process is not only educational but also educational. Education and education should also be observed in the context of success because of the crisis in which Croatia is located. That is why we need to enable more quality work in schools of course for the benefit of students, taking care that further steps are needed to improve pre-school, primary school and secondary education systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13473	Thank you, too. Next up is Zeljko Reiner, VP.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13474	Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, I would first look back as I have and often in relation to some other laws on the fact that this law is passed as I do not know which law in this 6-month emergency procedure. That way, and I want it every time and again, I'll probably be boring to everyone because every time I repeat it again. This directly violates the Rules of Procedure which we now change, swear on it, explain our various performances with it, etc. And this Rules of Procedure, and it seems to me that in the future because no change has been proposed, clearly states that, by an urgent procedure, the law can only be passed exceptionally when the interests of the defence and other particularly justified state reasons, i.e. when necessary in order to prevent or eliminate major disturbances in the economy. Now, this law is certainly not about defense. I don't know that we're at war, although some ministers claim we're in a state of emergency, which is a special story because only this House can declare a state of emergency, but we're not going to talk about it right now. It is certainly not a matter of defence, however. Is that preventing major economic disturbances? I don't think so, as far as I know about the economy. Therefore, there is no justification in the Rules of Procedure or for this law to be passed by an urgent procedure. Of course, it will certainly be said in the explanation that this is what it is brought because the school year begins in September, so it should be brought urgently now in a day or two before the summer fairies. But why didn't it happen two, three months ago? So it can be done by emergency procedure obviously. Now, what's new, important new? There are, of course, some good things as well as any, for example, continuing to learn the same foreign language, which is very positive, but I must admit that as many speakers before me, I cannot take the impression that one of the important reasons for bringing these changes, and especially in this urgent procedure against the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, I reiterate, the fact that this will introduce the National Council for Education and Education, which will then be composed of course of the like. The previous bodies will then be disbanded and a new body will be created to reflect politicisation, and politicisation especially in this area of education as well as some other educations in general, science, health care seems to me to be devastating. But I'm pulling a parallel with what we had two weeks ago where again the Science Foundation Act was also one of the fundamental parts of that law was that the National Science Council was transformed, that it should be dissolved, that the president of the Council and the members were resolved, and then, of course, again called similar members who would be extended by the hand of politics. That it is such a fact that it is not quite clearly defined, nor is the role of what it does in the end, which is always very interesting because what are the jobs that cannot be defined now. It is neither envisaged nor explained who proposes members, by what criteria? Will that be a public call? And I'm particularly interested in, of course, whether a series of public calls will select those mysterious two members outside of the education and education system? Who will determine them by what criteria, of course, does not write in this law. It doesn't also say by what standard every two years half the members will be appointed and half every four years? There is no exact criterion other than this cartilage which, of course, is a very interesting approach to it all together. What is also important to mention, and what was, of course, mentioned by more colleagues, is to delete evaluations at the midterm. It seems to me that this is extremely bad because, of course, grades are not an absolute criterion, of course, that students don't learn because of grades. However, primary and secondary school has not only the role of adopting certain skills but also the educational role. We all know very well that when a bologna was introduced a few years ago, one of the useful and new parts of this very process, and we are talking about students who are significantly older, more mature than primary students, and of course high school, one of the fundamental things in the bologna was just that constant knowledge check. So that students don't study for a whole year and then come to the end and have one huge exam, sometimes a few thousand pages, to lay down and then of course lay down or fall, and in fact during those years there were no mechanisms that would stimulate or control whether they were learning or not. Of course, campaign work tends to be something that's real. Therefore, at this young, sensitive age, to cut grades that can be an incentive in the midterm and also a warning for the students themselves, but also for their parents to change something in their way of learning, in school access, etc., I think it's bad and I think it's a step back and it's certainly not good. On the trail of what I said that one whole series of things remained unsolved it was a matter of choosing a director where some important elements were not actually solved, and that is, for example. how will the Teacher's Council, which will now be participating, evaluate the quality of candidates for the principal, for example, who comes outside the school? They don't know him, which criteria are not defined. What if Article 127(5) describes it if the minister does not deny consent to what will happen, but what is not clearly stated if the minister cancels consent? The logic of things is, of course, that the whole procedure has to be repeated, but it doesn't stand in the law, and I think it would be good to write it down. What concerns us is that it is said that no additional means are needed. At the same time, there is actually a payment of the fourth year and some things that are good in themselves, but it is said that it will cost nothing, and we know that it will cost and must cost because it all costs something and especially on occasion when 350 million kuna is less than last year provided for this sector. So it's the same thing that sounds unworthy if it's said that these changes won't cost anything. What I must also mention is Article 25, which says that a working relationship in a school institution cannot be founded by a person who is legally sentenced to prison regardless of whether parole or unconditional punishment is imposed and now counts of crimes. What I have to admit is that what's amazing is that by following that, it reflects obviously our reality and today. So you can't be a teacher at a country school, but you can be the first vice president of the government. So I have to ask all of us what kind of country do we really live in? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13475	Thank you, too. We have a replica of your exposure. Dear Lord Calmeta, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13476	Comrade Reiner, you have asked a question about the National Council and you have made it clear to me how you will rotate members of the National Council. And you said that the National Council would most likely be chosen in the same way. I would agree with you here because I think it's good to choose the National Council, I think it's good to, and well written in the law what all of the National Council should do and that it consists of truly respected university professors, etc. etc. But these two fuses, so it doesn't happen to occur to those members of the National Council that around some views have their opinions, are secured here in two ways. First, what is called the Government, or is proposed by the Government and appointed by the Parliament. Clearly, the ruling majority will always have their candidates. And secondly, just because every two years seven members are going to change, and by lot, every two years one of the members is going to change by lot. That's to say that anyone who doesn't carry out what's to be done, that after two years, he will be eliminated from that National Council. So the good idea of creating the National Council is good only seemingly because there are 2 fuses that these people are really going to have to implement what the minister is doing, and then the ruling structure is clearly thinking. Come on, on the one hand, we may be able to figure it out, but these fuses are here to disable any, unauthorized to say, detour or any kind of opinion that is not in line with politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13477	Thank you. Next up for the Sun Head debate. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13478	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. So here's the law that's ahead of us, I don't think it's actually going to be a crucial solution in the education and education system, and my relationship with the knowledge country, I'll remind you just, you've already shown the opportunity to adopt a budget, so I remind you that it was actually the first serious test of the new government's credibility. I also remind myself that it has given up the construction of new schools, that it has also given up on care, on vocational education, material position and the stimulation of teachers and teachers etc. What are the achievements in improving the school system? One sports hall, two elementary schools and two high schools. That's what we're talking about how we're going to improve the education system, because as we know, and so have many of my predecessors, without infrastructure, and without what we're going to do and what we're going to do, we can't go forward. So that's the formula for progress. So, for example, a one-way course in Međimurje County will probably come to life from 2020 if it lives then. Namely, there is no one-way course in Međimurje County, unlike Varazdin County. Of course, I'll allow it to be on the soul of the local authorities, but in any case, I don't think we're going to improve the education and education system. So what does this law do? I'll put an emphasis on just some of his parts. For example, when we talk about students of vocational schools, about the possibility of completing education in longer periods. I think that such situations can be applied or situations like this can be spoken about, for example, exceptional athletes or in a somewhat rare situation for students with other reasons mentioned. There are many practical courses in vocational schools, and in these cases, it would be justified for me to allow them longer education, especially in craft professions where practical teaching is of primary importance, above all for the acquisition of qualifications and competences. So these students who've been breaking out of school for a long time, that teaching class, so the school section, and they're mastering some passing grade. But the biggest problem is the lack of enough hours of practical teaching. That'll tell you anyone in the economy who's got kids who've finished some vocational school, those kids just don't have those skills. More precisely, they define and form two kinds of committees, I'm not sure how much progress that will be. You know, it's often said, "If you don't want to spend something, then set up a commission."I think this might be on the trail too, because I don't know what's missing from the expert commissions so far and how all the kids have been properly enrolled in schools so far. As regards the amendment to the provisions on the obligation to conclude grades at the half-yearly stage. There is a shared opinion of the profession, at least those who work in primary and secondary schools say. However, it is unique that, for example, this is very bad for students who attend vocational schools. I'm talking more about vocational schools, because first of all they're well-organized and they give extraordinary personnel in the county or the constituency I come from. So, why is that bad? So far, this half-year grade, it's not necessarily after Christmas, so let the midterm end, for example, at the end of January, to be the same time interval. She was at least some orientation and student, and a teacher and parent which could be at the end of the year. I'm not talking here, of course, about those conscious students who don't need it, because they know, of course, what's best for them. However, I am talking about those, therefore, who, during the second half of the year, had opportunities because of the shortcomings shown to improve their assessment. So, not only by your own free will but also by encouraging the teacher and showing some progress. This is how it can actually happen that the teacher does his prescribed program, gives up what he has to do, so what the program tells him to do, conducts knowledge checks and concludes the evaluation in the end. And most likely, the epilogue would be a more severe success because they are not high school students, so often even students are so aware and responsible that they think about the consequences of their uncontinuous work or perhaps campaign work. I think that only here would there be stress, if at the end of the year or before the end of the year parents and students realized that there would be a bunch of units, and there would be no physical time to correct those grades or get a chance to fix bad results. There were a few suggestions, so I'll take them out for a few. Perhaps if teachers are to be relieved of all the stress they are actually talking about, then may students who have not satisfied themselves be informed of them or their parents, not to conclude twos, threes, fours, or fives. In this way, the detected students during the second half would have greater teacher attention and parents would get a signal that needs to be fixed. In addition, according to the Act on the Assessment of Teachers at the end of the year, it assesses the year-round effort and results, and in particular stresses that progress of a student should be taken into account in the final assessment. So already and now teachers are obliged to evaluate and follow the results of students throughout the year and not by stages, so by mid-terms. But unfortunately, we have to admit today there are those teachers who determine the final score as the middle grade of the first and second term. Of course, it causes problems, but it is already a problem for schools, directors and ministries that such teachers are not forced to comply with the regulations on evaluations that are in force and that I think is very good just because many do not adhere to it. Of course, so long as they're not warned about any inspections. As for the management of school institutions not to make their own employment decisions, it extends for up to 15 days. It may be more correct and better for at least 30 days because it is particularly difficult to find an expert frame in vocational schools. So in ten days, it's hard for you to find Mr. Minister at the vocational school a person who can make up for someone who's gone. In fact, the message is in something else, and the fact that some executives were being abused for hiring beyond the criteria at the limit of the law was, for example, Cases that, on the deadline of 60 days, they hired someone without asking anyone, and the argument for employment was that they were doing very well in those 60 days, the students got used to them, etc. I think you should think about it for at least 30 days. As far as the appointment of the principal of school institutions is concerned, I think it is wrong that representatives of the founders of the county do not commit themselves to respect the decisions of those who have proposed them, I think they should respect the decision of those chosen by at least the mayor and the administrative authorities if not the decision of the county assembly. As regards the National Council for Education and Education, which has already been discussed, independence on the work of members of that council is questionable, and I will agree with that. But we are left with bigger problems, a problem with the verification of new curiculas, which in my opinion is a fundamentally more important issue than what we are dealing with right now. As far as I know, 25 new curiculas have been prepared since 30 April and then from the Professional Education Agency after long discussions on sectoral councils delivered to the ministry. Unfortunately, they say they are waiting for the minister's signature, the minister cannot put his signature on it because some are afraid of new changes. So I'm talking about curricula. Maybe some new personnel changes, a surplus of some personnel less personnel for new technologies. They say those who did it all go in the direction of improving the situation in schools because still somewhere it's done in ancient programs and methods, so please look at what it's really about. In the professional programmes in the Republic of Croatia around 70% of all high school students, the adoption of the Law on Professional Education was a very good basis for progress, but this stalemate I was talking about with the new professional curricula is an example of how some of the general education areas of personal interest want as many of their general subjects at the expense of the profession as possible and I don't think that's good. Here in the County of Međimurje I'll conclude we're probably the only one in the country who's enrolled an extra class of locksmiths and all with an economic learning agreement and I think that's a very good example. So I speak on behalf of the county where schools are educated for occupations of which there is an interest in both students and economies, and I think that's how we should set up our education system. Finally, the Ministers of the Country of Knowledge is unfortunately reflected in the results and... research where our 15-year-olds are at the bottom, it's about colleagues who may not know about the Reading project with an understanding of what I think is devastating. And you need to change programs because it's not normal for a child who ends up, for example. For a engineering technician, it's harder to enroll in engineering than a high school student or an economist, and I think that something really needs to be changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13479	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. The first one was Natalija Martinecevic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13480	Here's a distinguished colleague, Glavak, mentioned a lack of infrastructure or lack of school halls. It is true that the budget for positive reasons could not have provided the means to build enough schools and sports halls, but we just passed a Law on public-private partnership last week that will allow all schools and sports halls to be built. And I'm particularly glad that you mentioned the example of the Varazdin County which just built and built 33 schools and sports halls on the basis of a public-private partnership. This enabled one-way teaching to all students and significantly raised the level of education in the county.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13481	Thank you. We have a Sun Head response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13482	Thank you very much. My colleague, she has significantly raised her position in Varazdin County for the next few generations, the Varazdin County is in charge of a public-private partnership project and we cannot speak unilaterally that this is something excellent. In the County of Međimurje, we managed to prevent such attempts at small municipal budgets from incurring municipalities or cities and that they could absolutely do nothing because they are obliged to pay off exactly these models that we should not very much boast about. First of all, those who have modest budgets have a reduction in the decentralised resources that they will make all of this happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13483	Thank you. The next replica of Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13484	I wanted to say about the appointment of the director, I think that this thing got a little complicated and that that appointment will be one process that will really complicate the selection of directors, the question of whether or not the directors will be chosen at all, and how the directors will choose. The main change relates to the conduct of the members of the school board in the order of teaching, teaching, raising, parenting councils who are obliged to represent and present the views of the body who proposed or elected them to the school board. As soon as someone has chosen me in a body, it means that they have trust in me and that I will normally represent the interests of that part or that of the parenting council or of the raiser, etc. So I think it's pointless to write that you should represent the body's position. But look now in practice, now the members of the school board will call the competition, the applications will come and what now? Now they have to carry these applications, each of these members of the school board to their council, that they report them or the appointment proposals see, and the résumés, that they call interviews of every potential school principal, and let the bodies have 50 members, and then those bodies will make decisions, and then that representative whom this body elected to the school board will be there again, and the public vote will elect workers. I think it's been so complicated and it's not good, and I don't know how this election process is going to go, especially in the end, the school board members have to choose it by public vote. It's going to be such a pressure on those school board members that it's amazing. I think we should also introduce a secret vote, that the members of the school board should be elected by secret vote by the director. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13485	Thank you, too. We have a reply to the replica, Sunny Head. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13486	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So very briefly, counterpart Kalmeta talked about this whole complication and eventually we get to the minister because he still has to make an appointment or not, so he still has to give consent. Why procedure like this when in the end the minister will say yes or no. Indeed, here is the minister, perhaps, to see if this is really necessary or if these people make a decision to be a minister or if what people like to say Zagreb will make a decision, to stop doing it that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13487	Thank you, too. Minister Jovanovic spoke of the word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13488	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, let's clear this up because I don't like it when things start this way, assuming something's trying to get complicated, and we're doing the opposite. So all of you who have been on some school board or are involved in the work of the county, city council, you know that the selection of directors today is completely non-transparent. It's nice to say that the esteemed representative Calmeta, that someone who represents parents, is there and represents the interests of those parents, but generally that's not the case. Most of the principals manage to figure out the composition of the school board and generally nothing will change. This procedure may be longer, it may be more complex, but if it is known when the term of office expires, it can be started early enough to do everything in a good way. So as these principals were elected, did anyone read their programs, very rarely. Now every candidate for director will have to work to present his programme on both the teaching board and the parent board, and then the programme will be given priority there and the teaching board will have to vote in public voting at the school board meeting for the mandate of those who have delegated him to the school board. Very transparent, very responsible and I am convinced that it will solve many of the problems that we now have with the selection of directors in terms of non-transparentity and absence of the right criteria for selecting directors. Of course, in the next phase because nothing can be done overnight, we'll solve the principal's election in an even more quality way through the director's licensing through creation. You have a situation today that is absurd. The only competition for which there is actually no choice of director, no conditions, no criteria. Someone can come and you choose him, all that matters is that he's graduated from college, but there are no other criteria, and we all know that well here. So we're trying to introduce order. If schools are based on the entire future of Croatia, then the people who run those schools must be the best quality. And I repeat once again, no party has been called and the SDP will not press me when it comes to election of directors across Croatia. And Mrs. Findak, try harder, I'm not going to tell you how long it's been since the principal's election, and if...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13489	Head, Sunny Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13490	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I apologize to you and Mrs. Findak. So try, find out how many choices there were and how many cases I didn't give consent to and why I didn't give consent, and then we can talk about whether or not I'm using my position. And I will immediately take advantage of the opportunity for the National Council for Education and Education, so why we suspect a good idea that has a basis for the National Council for Higher Education and Science. Why do we doubt that this body will really have the possibility of strategically considering the development of preschool education and education in primary and secondary schools. Well, he's going to be elected by this parliament, and you're going to be able to tell everyone about this man what he thinks. Well, do you think a body like that will try to push someone on an unprofessional basis? So it is not the goal, the goal is to show, and thus, through the choice in this House, how important education is to us in primary and secondary schools. And two members of the National Council outside the system of education and education, so it doesn't make sense that there's someone in that council who sees a picture outside, a representative of the Employment Office, a representative of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, so people who can help us make decisions that link our system of education, science with the needs of the economy and the labour market, including the social humanist area, so we're not just talking about direct production. This is the goal of these measures without any hidden intentions, with a clear task of making our education better because today we can't be satisfied with the state of education, and when someone tells me that the results of the letter of research are bad, so I'm the minister for six months. Students who will be taking letters of tests related to my mandate, it will be in two three years, then we will be able to compare the letters of tests from this mandate and the mandate of the one who has been in power for the previous eight years and whose mandate has passed the results of the letter of the tests.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13491	We have two corrections. First came the Sun Head. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13492	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I don't know why Mr. Secretary is angry. First of all, I didn't say that he abused his authority at all, I said that I didn't understand why a complicated procedure when he would eventually appoint a director minister, would say yes or no. So the ministers got it all wrong or you didn't write it right or you didn't listen to me. In addition, I'll just warn that as the county authorities change, so ad hoc members of the school boards change, and then these lobbyings never stop and never end. So, speaking of which, and if we say that there are no criteria for selecting a director, I think you have offended all those hardworking people who work in a primary and secondary school system because you actually called them incompetent because they've actually been chosen by no criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13493	Thank you. Another correction, Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13494	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it is incorrect that the minister said that we are against the introduction of the National Council for Education and Education, but we are not. We are only against and question the way members of that Council are elected and rightly so because nothing is defined here. The second correction of the incorrect quote is the same. The minister spoke of the school board, about the consent it should receive from the one appointed by a representative on the school board, said that this body would be the teaching council, the breeding council, the working council would listen to all candidates. Then at least it should have been prescribed in law. The way and procedure of selecting the appointment of directors is arranged by the Statute of the school institution and is now being edited. So, I did the procedure. So it may happen that someone or some educational institution of school or anyone else does not prescribe such an election procedure, that those who are candidates for directors present their programme to a particular institution and that is the difficulty with this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13495	Time. Thank you. Next debate, Josip Boric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13496	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, fellow Members of Parliament. So here we have been listening for months to the Minister's announcements that there will be an educational and scientific offensive in June and that we will be changing systems and education and sciences based on these offensives. Here's what we got? In June nothing, in July in the last week of the meeting of the Croatian Parliament several laws on sports, on sports inspection, education and education, scientific activity, higher education etc. What do we have from these offensives? Nothing like I'd say more or less than all the other laws because based on those laws, we became just a society of broad opportunities, even more possibilities. In practice, however, nothing is solved. In fact, we live worse and harder. So, speaking of these offensives, perhaps the most lasting one is the December offensive that continues today and will probably last in the next time, which is the offensive to the pockets of Croatian citizens. What does the offensive bring to this basic proposal for a law on education and education in elementary and high school? Nothing. Let's take it in a row. That system was set up a long time ago. He has his components and several components. If we take down one of those systems, it doesn't work. It's a system of connected convictions. At the top is certainly the budget of the Ministry of Science because without it there is no system. What does he say? Last year seven and a half billion, this year seven billion and 74 million kuna. And to convince us that with 500 million kuna, something less than 500 million kuna, we will have a better, better quality education and education system. Let's go to the next component. It's family. What do we have on the family? We heard yesterday at the Medical Aided Insemination Act. What is our view of this family? We have attitudes on the left and on the right. In this family, it all starts and ends. What do we have next? We have a kid who has to go to that school. What have we done to help this child through this law? I don't see any benefits except for the possibility that this kid at 22 or 23 if he wasn't missing some class in that eight-year-old school sitting in 4 high school classes, that when he was 22 and 23 he was sitting in 4 high school classes. Can we imagine that? We can. All right, that's a possibility, an excellent opportunity that we value failure. With this opportunity, we value failure and reward them. Be a failure, but you'll always have a chance to get through that system to the end, as long as you want to go to regular school. Next component to the school. The child needs to get to school from his home. Said Minister 400 million kuna this year for high school students, it means they drive free to their high schools. I don't see it in the budget, and when I know we have 450 less than last year, then we're not surprised to say that decentralised funds can no longer cover those basic material costs that schools have. You have a toilet without toilet paper, no soap, no hygienic abilities, and we're talking about education and education. That's a fact, that's what we tried to do when we had the opportunity to be power. But then that budget of the Ministry of Science was higher, and that budget did not support free textbooks, nor free travel, nor free dormitories for high school students, etc. He couldn't stand it because there was no money, and now we're saying that with 500 million kuna, we're going to do a lot more and everything is going to be perfect. This will be the land of 1,000 flowers. We've reached school, we've reached space. She has her value. Those schools, unfortunately, aren't all in the best shape. Many have no additional content, no sports hall, no sports classroom, no IT classroom. We still haven't been able to run that big investment cycle we talked about. Hundreds of new schools, hundreds of kindergartens, or I don't know the hall. However, here I ask openly how many competitions have been opened by the Ministry of Science and Education over the past six months. Here I am asking the Minister who was also the Mayor of the city of Rijeka since he is one school, which is the primary school of Srdci for a year in construction, that these children have been scattered around the city in many schools, that you finish this school because it is an interest of the parents from Rijeka, that these children are not in the next school year according to many of the other parts of the city of Rijeka from Turnic to Vežica. We're coming up with the fact that we have a curriculum and a program at school. What did we do to get rid of it, that we made it possible for the students to be less? That's what the textbooks follow. How many shouts were there, and we listen daily to our children carrying heavy bags. Where did we get rid of them? Based on this law, we've put even more pressure on them. In the first class, we introduce instead of six or seven religious subjects, three other health, civic, and foreign languages. Says the prime minister and the IT since first grade. Are we going to load the kids in the first grade with 11 classes? Can we have an object without the necessary structure to track it, and it's a textbook, it's a work book, it's a notebook. Whether it's going to be easier in that bag or it's going to be harder. That's the question. I say this law only burdens these students further under the story we'll live better, we'll get better education, we'll get better education when we introduce some kind of civic education I say to a small door through experiments and we'll build everything else up. There's no story without money, gentlemen dear, no. And there's less money than last year. We've also come to the value of success. Inconceivable! I worked at school for seven years, for decades in those times, past times, socialism or communism as it was already called, so it never happened that there were no midterm grades. For the past 20 years, even quarterly student evaluations, including descriptive evaluations, have been markedly unsuccessful. But let's not ban a child from having the right to know whether he was successful or not. Whether he worked hard or worked less. That he and his parents know that. So imagine sports with no halftime, no half-time results. So what motivates you to take a step forward in the second half of the year? The fact that you don't have any grades? Well, that'll be abused by 6 months. Many parents will only find out at 6 months that his child is ill at school, many. So let's not do what was good just to leave some sort of success trail leading to absurdity. Well, any halftime athlete who sees that he's bad in the second half is trying to be better. It's the motivation of a child. And let's not justify it by the fact that it's hard for teachers, Professor. 175 days enter the directory and diary, 175 days out of 365 a year. There's enough 90 days more for them to sort that stress out somehow. However, we have now come to them. Tomorrow's Friday 13, not a good day for them. I'm asking you, if you take off what you promised them and the travel expenses, and the coefficients on the internship and everything you told them that you'd take off, will you have a motivated professor, a teacher at that school? Will he then give that effort to make that child look better, to teach him better, or to raise him better? Well, that's basic stuff, and we say things like this, and we explain it by a bill where there's a lot of missing things and there's almost nothing to solve. Where did we end up? We've come to the expense. Well, schooling is the cost. He fell on his family's back for six months. I ask the minister why a textbook must cost 250 kuna or a small work book that has 30 pages cost 90 kuna? When we have weeks on 50 pages, I don't know a newspaper that costs 12 or 13 kuna. Where do we spill it? And now the 7th and 8th months will come, parents will have to take out 2,000, 3,000 kunas in order for the child to go to school. And 2% of VAT means it's going to be a little more expensive. And now we're talking about how through this law we're going to make one vertical passing, everyone's going to end it, everyone's going to be happy. But, gentlemen, I say, these components, and in the end it's the school management by the principal, and in the end it's just what's most important to us, and everything else that makes the system, we've led to absurdity.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13497	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We have three replicas for your presentation, Your Honor. He is the first respected representative of Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13498	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, you noticed the importance of family and family importance, and yesterday we witnessed the desire to destroy the headquarters value of society, which is family. Of course, if we add an even more difficult material state of many families, increased electricity costs, and the gas of everything else leads to further frustration of many families. But you've noticed a dear colleague, too, that the need for many schools for repairs is for editing, not to mention that one-way extension that's being talked about, of course, above all sports halls. I personally testify from my community as much as the sports hall can improve the quality of life in one environment and certainly the need in each environment mainly in rural areas which do not have all the possibilities, children do not have all the opportunities they have in the larger environments etc., for various activities to drive them away and remove them from those unwanted consequences. And if we add this new moment to that that you pointed to, then the material state of the educational staff that many work in more schools and travel and with this abolition of these rights from the collective contract, who will work? Who will work more in these rural areas, who will travel? This is indeed one question that leads to further collapse of rural areas, further collapse of rural areas. And this all along with this state of agriculture and all the other circumstances, it's a definitive path to destroying the village. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13499	Thank you, too. And a response to the replica of the respected representative, Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13500	That's right, fellow Milinkovic. We've got a situation. I'm offering a solution. I come from an island that has eight big places. He's in every district school. With us teachers travel from one place to another even though they have school in their own and all travel expenses are paid. So let's get more order into these travel expenses. Why would someone want to travel someplace else and have the opportunity to work in their place? It's all over Slavonia. It's all over Dalmatia. We shouldn't be ashamed to say that. People travel because they want to. The director allows them to do so. That's a lot of expenses. Just a little reorganization, but also clear orders from the minister who will say go ahead and solve that part of the system, not talk about how we're going to deal with something by law. The laws have been passed and changed, but the facts say something else, that in the ministry's budget we have much less money and that with these money we have to provide at least equal service, compared to what we had. However, we are convinced that this will be much better, and in the field we see that it is quite different. And that part of the family you were talking about, so we have kids who go to elementary school, but they go to art schools, to music school, so that's extra costs. Every school costs several thousand kunas, not to mention travel expenses, because there's no organised transportation for them. And it's all on the burden of that same family again. That's why I'm saying I listed all the components of this system, just take out one, and that system doesn't work. If we want to solve them in quality, then we have to go with clear orders to each segment, but the state must also show that it cares about the segment of finance that what it says and realizes. Because this is how you talk, and having less money is just a demagogy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13501	Thank you very much. The next replica is the replica of the respected representative of the Iron Flag. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13502	My colleagues and colleagues, we've been listening to everything today in the debate, and it's something a man really needs to be able to handle. It seems to me that there is one common finding that the school system is in poor shape. This common finding could be the first step in a common effort to change the situation. But it is not good, fellow Boric, to quote Minister Primorac you are putting in the mouth the quote of Minister Jovanovic. It is not good to declare that there is nothing new in the law, and if there is a new National Council that we do not repeat the argument that the National Council is set up to give a new dimension of governance, the strategic management of the education system. It's not good to say there's nothing new. If it is working on a first but still significant step towards vertical passivity in the education system. The fourth year of education for people who have completed a three-year school is possible on state spending. And therefore, it is prescribed as a state obligation to the law, which is not at all an insignificant step towards lifelong learning. And it's not good for you, nor for your party, nor for our Parliament, nor for the resort that categorical courts speak of things you have no idea about. Jerbo, in this continent, there are schools that don't have a grade at all, but they have a descriptive evaluation, and let's say by the fourth grade. There have been controversys, for years, 20 years discussing whether students should be evaluated and how. There are school systems that, therefore, do not complete their grades until the last day of school. So, it's not so much trouble right now that we should put it on some scary drum, but on the contrary, we're conforming to the developed systems of education. Whether it will give good results in Croatia to a colleague, Boric, or not, is a different story.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13503	Thank you very much. Thank you. Reply to the replica, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13504	I respect the knowledge of the esteemed Mr. Flege. It is probably because of this knowledge that Mr Milanovic proposed another minister of science. But I personally claim what I know from experience, I have two children, and I know what I go through with them every day. There's probably people in you, here's this guy who talks all the time, and he's giving us kids lessons, he knows exactly how a kid feels, I don't know at 18 without parents, how to behave at school, how to do this, how to do this, how to do it. We have experienced knowledge, and not all knowledge is scientific, Mr. Flego. And we have a problem today precisely because of these great knowledge, especially in the economy. We have a lot of scientists, economists, but we don't see a way out of this situation. And those who do practice suffer, those who do, those who get hit on the back because they do, that's our problem. And what I said, I didn't think at all about the Minister of the Primorac, there are all these words in the media as much as you want, but I openly claim this evaluation and misjudgement at the mid-term is something that will demotize our children, because these children have nowhere to show their knowledge. So let's go to that school, ask your grandchildren or kids, I don't know, when they have a chance to show what they know. They have one thing for St. Nicholas and one for school day, but not all of us, we've been chosen again. Where children show us their knowledge, show us that system, anywhere? I try to collect them personally at sports clubs, drive them to games, etc. personally because I see them sitting behind a computer, on a computer, on a cell phone, and we're going to create generations, in the next time that they're only going to be able to send an email and send a message. And everything else will remain very, very skeptical and problematic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13505	Thank you, too. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13506	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, you have injured Article 214(5), which I quote, says: "It demeans or insults the president and other MPs." With all due respect to my colleague Flegi and his knowledge and everything, but I don't think you have the right to say that anyone has any idea of anything. Someone has a clue about life, maybe they're not trained to do it, you have no right to tell them. I think that as a man who spent so many years in science, education, who has a reputation, you simply must not allow such a thing in this House. Because you've set an example for everyone to still have a more intense discussion, you just can't let things happen. From the position you're working on.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13507	Okay. ... Please don't, I'll... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13508	I didn't say you had no idea you had a colleague, Flego, like you said to your colleague, Boric. And you're talking about finance, and I never told you you had a clue. You spoke while I was a minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13509	Please. ... Thank you very much. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Let me put it this way, Honorable Representative Shucker. I'd like to get into a position if I could say for myself, now I know I don't know anything, but it's not easy to come to. So, both you and I and all those who went to any school have experienced being told you don't know, you have no idea. That category is not offensive to anyone. ... I'm sorry, but it's really every one of us, and it's normal in conversations to tell him you have no idea about it, it's not offensive, it's not offensive. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] It's not offensive, okay. I think I said it right. Thank you very much. Let's move on. The next replica is the replica of the respected representative of Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13510	Thank you very much, Vice President. In your debate, you are actually committed a lot of space to saying about the midterm evaluation and one of the arguments that you made in your claim that it was no good not to be rated at the midterm was that the parent would not be able to do it until the end of the school year, so at the end of the school year to know that his child was bad, or that the child was not working. I wonder what kind of parent that's gonna be like in the sixth month, at the end of the school year, find out that his kid hasn't made any progress. It's bad, it's an irresponsible parent. So, the man you're actually supposed to call your parents should not be called at all. And the intensity of this bill is that a parent regularly comes to school during the entire school year and regularly informs himself about how his child works.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13511	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13512	I'm saying, again, we're starting to assume that all parents are caring, that everyone comes to school, that everyone's watching their students work, that everyone knows what grade they got, etc. I'll direct you to rural areas, there are parents who don't come, they don't come at all. They're the only evidence when he brings home a student's book at the midterm or at the end, or a testimony that that child was somewhere. And you need to know that, it exists, we can't ignore that these people exist. And then we give opportunities, I say through various laws, all kinds of possibilities. Now we're removing the possibility that they've been informed of whether their children did something right, whether they've learned something or in some way we're making it impossible for them because we say you don't need to find out, you'll find out in the sixth month, and when you find out it'll be too late. Well, then I say it all over again, and then there's time. I'm saying you can fall first grade high and enter and pass, and then two, and then three, and then eight years in high school, because people will have time to learn exactly those facts that they can learn in time with one little notice and you can't do that to anyone because it's the motivation of a child. He doesn't just learn that he wants to get a good grade. He knows when he got five and he got one that was wrong. And we can't ignore that and that's a fact. And he's trying when he gets one to learn to get two or five just like a student and everybody else and we can't ignore it. And why we're making it impossible for him to find out what he was worth at the end of the semester and publicly in front of everyone. They know it and they appreciate it because the only thing I'm sorry to tell them is that at least they show that they're a little different, they're better than someone that their efforts have been worth it and that they've been better than others. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13513	Thank you very much. The word has a respected representative, Shimo Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13514	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I am extremely concerned that this system of primary and secondary education is functioning because I come directly from it. I haven't been in it in ten years, but I was in the county worried about maintaining such a system. And now the Croatian people have entrusted me with the opportunity of passing such laws to speak a word for the benefit of the system and for the benefit of those who raise and educate. So I'm going to start with those little first-graders who enter the education system. We must be very careful when we enroll students from under 6 years of age in 1st grade and pay particular attention to the commission that examined those children must take care of the following, that a child who is a reader comes into the classroom, a child who does not recognize any of the letters and comes two to three per grade children with developmental difficulties. This is a major problem for colleagues and colleagues who are leading the 1st class, who have been assigned to lead that 1st class for all 4 years, and this programme has to be tailored specifically to those children. Whether they're gifted, disabled, children with developmental difficulties or children who don't know any of the letters. Therefore, it is not important for me to have these two committees to decide but rather one commission where there will be expert people where we will save the funds but especially the commission when it comes to enrolling students with developmental difficulties, when students with developmental difficulties are enrolled in the first class. The second thing I noticed, and that's the director's choice. So today on the school board, we've been saying it again, sorry to have to repeat that there are three representatives of the founders, three representatives I would say the people of the classroom school and one representative of the parents who are also elected at school. It is true, he represents parents on the School Board but in a certain way all departments at school run for someone and then from that broad election there is one person who behaves in office on the School Committee. I don't think the director's choice should be public. We compromise people here, and if colleagues and colleagues from other schools from other systems and meet the conditions of the competition with them absolutely one professional conversation must be held. And the question is who is it in the county management department, is it in the City Educational, Culture and Sports Department, etc. Someone who's gonna have this professional conversation with a person who's coming who doesn't know these people who are on the school board. Success in the midterm. Well, it's the duty of each colleague and colleague to start by whether it's the 1st or 2nd week of the 9th month to keep track of the student until the mid-term, to make notes, and to assess whether, in the chapters, to check when one piece of the material is being made. He must have it in his job description, and that's where he's standing in the Assessment Regulation. And then what does it mean at the midterm from all the follow-up you have to make? It doesn't have to be me now, that big process of a student's book. But why not notify when the Class Council passes, the Teacher's Council, and when that time goes by for appeals and complaints to parents why not send the parent notice that my daughter my son won such and such success at the midterm. I'm in favour of keeping it the way it's been so far, but I'm telling these co-workers and colleagues on a continuous basis, and that's what our colleagues at school do, follow, record and evaluate. Then it's not hard to conclude that success at the midterm. And at the end of the year, he has to evaluate first-term material and that midterm score when performing his final evaluation. I used to comment somewhere earlier that it's not good at our elementary and high school to have a student study for the grade. A student should teach colleagues and colleagues for knowledge, but in the last 20 years you'll admit it to me doesn't happen. That damn grade is always the point of every problem when you get into first grade high school and when you go to college, etc. That average is what you brought in when you ran for office in those grades. At the beginning of one of the institutions, I think that two-year period can be delayed and up to 2 years is not necessary if one school is too large and a regional school is built, a partial balance is made, if that school is already in the network of schools brought by the founder. A partial balance is created by school acts, I think there is only an increase in the number of executive directors, educators, accountants, even accountants, accountants, I don't know what but the school secretary and the job account can be done elsewhere. Why does he have to go to that parent school? Guys, that's a very important question for me, my colleagues and colleagues. So that what we've been talking about all morning is that our students would be successful is very important who and how, direct work with students, who and how does he work at school? We need to know that in our villages, mountain-mounted islands we have too unprofessionally represented classes and if the director who is obliged together with the pedagogue to prepare for a new school year for the education system, make a plan and program, he must call a competition. When a technological surplus and everything else is taken care of, people who are in a permanent working relationship, and have become a technological surplus, he must be given approval to call the competition. He gets it, but the class is here, the living kids are here. It takes a 60-day professional person to not be unprofessionally represented until a tender procedure, deadline of appeal, etc., etc. is implemented. For these and such staffs, I advocate that both the Ministry and the local community and the county and the cities for those personnel that we lack to co-finance them in their education and education, in colleges and that their clause in the contract is written that it is obliged to work in that county for as long as it took his education in college. And here, at the end of my colleague and colleague, I had the honour of receiving a delegation of Japanese educators at Vrpolje, led by an assistant minister, I think there was a Japanese education. One data, 5,000 school students, a day-long stay, food, all that is needed in the entire living room, we have such schools, and only one cleaning lady does everything on their own. We're gonna get to it, I think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13515	Thank you, Your Honor. Three replicas have been reported for your presentation. Let's take it in a row. The first replica is the respected representative of Ivica Mandic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13516	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. A colleague, Djurdjevic, since I know you come from the educational process, especially this second part that you were tied to sports. I certainly expected that you in your debate would get to a very important topic which today, unfortunately, none of your colleagues and colleagues mentioned in the debate, is a question of the culture of cheerleading and the culture of fans. Although a very important segment on primary and secondary education in the Republic of Croatia and that schools and regular classes should pay more attention to raising, how to root for their school team, for their city team and create a culture of quality cheerleading, because unfortunately we happen to have with the exceptional athletes that the Republic of Croatia have one fan, one small part of those fans who are not at the level of these excellent sports results. So we should certainly in the system of education from primary to secondary school and that part of that culture should be encouraged to create, because if we don't want this to happen to us in quality, it won't happen to us, so I would certainly like to see you think about this problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13517	Thank you very much. The next replica is the replica of respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13518	Mr. Djurdjevic, as he writes in the morning Simo Djurdjevic, otherwise he is Šima, so he forgot that he comes from the system as he says, forgot to say that education starts in the family, continues for those who are fortunate in preschool education, then primary school, secondary school, etc., etc. However, what is now the biggest problem of both primary and secondary education is the lack of funds, the lack of funds in each primary and secondary school. I will not mention now a free trip for high school students and also for students promised by the Government to complete the budget, etc., but simply this reduced share of these funds created by the reduction of decentralised funds. For example. in OS "Ivan Goran Kovacic" in Đakov is missing on the basis of 80000 kuna, OS "Vladimir Nazor" 70000. The question arises how will children go to elementary school when the funds they now have are not enough for the 9th month, and what it will look like when it starts to heat up. Not to mention, these are the resources at the sponge and chalk school, not to mention that they are neither computers anymore, nor modern teaching tools and aids, etc. And apparently, in these few years, that Croatian knowledge has simply disappeared. And the next thing you know, that bag I wore to Mrs. Kosor when she was vice president of the government didn't change her weight, Mr. Flego.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13519	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Third replica and respected representative Igor Coleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13520	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here I am listening to these discussions, so fellow Djurdjevic, but not just colleagues Djurdjevic and colleagues Boric and colleagues Suker know everything, know about the competitions, know how many cleaning girls have a school, know how many cleaning girls should have school. And I'm only interested now in colleagues and colleagues or girls and boys if we're going to refer to ourselves as our colleague Boris suggests we introduce, girls and boys why you haven't in 17 years as much as you've been in power in this country. That's my question. You all know how many cleaners you have to have, okay, I agree, you're right. ... I agree, you're right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Why didn't you ever do any of that?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13521	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Šima Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13522	My friend, you've been playing a little bit of a game of words. It's been done a lot so far. In my own debate, I concentrated on that segment of practice which would be better for the system and suggested in my debate. And that a lot of schools and halls were built, of course, for example. sports halls, that we've worked not hard but e.g. Remco mounts today every school in Croatia would have a sports hall. But about that then, it's not today's topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13523	Thank you very much. Now we'll stop working and start again at 3:00 with the debate of the esteemed representative Veljak Kajtazi. Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Can we continue with the work of respected colleagues and respected colleagues? We can. Before the debate begins, continue the debate one notice. The meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security will be held tomorrow at 9.00 p.m. in Hall Eugen Kvaternik No 233, instead of at the Hall Janko Draskovic. And now we continue the debate. The first in line is Honorable Representative Veljko Kajtazi, an independent representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13525	The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools can be broken down into several topics, and they concern both students and school workers, but also schools as a whole, and yet these changes are aimed at improving the quality of primary school and secondary education systems, and this goal is to be achieved through the amendments and additions to the previous Law on Education and Education adopted in 2008 which has so far been subject to several amendments. Transparency in the employment of school workers, in the appointment of directors, enrolment in the first grade of primary school, the vertical passivity of students is all part of what we are discussing today. The final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools of Article 4 provides for the entry of children into the first class and under six years of age which has not been regulated by law and one year later than planned for enrolment of children in school. This possibility is particularly important for members of the Roma national minority who are more often than other children cannot be enrolled in school in time. The consequence is that many Roma families have not obtained Croatian citizenship as well as the lack of documents for which they are forced to move, and their children are not enrolled in time. This proposal will facilitate these children's enrolment in schools. Vertical passivity also enables this bill, and here this refers to giving the chance to obtain high school or professional training. To those students who have lower professional equipment, or who have completed a three - year school program. When I say by giving a chance, I mean that the law defines retaining the status of a regular student and not paying fees for those who want to complete a four-year programme. With such positive measures, the degree of education of the population will be higher and better, allowing for a higher level of qualifications that an individual has, and thus a greater chance of employment. This is where I would touch a problem that I hope will be solved this year with the understanding of the Ministry of Education. It is about 50 Roma and Roma women from the Sisak area who completed the programme on descripting and training for interest at the Open University of Kotva in Petrinja. They didn't get those diplomas until today, because the Ministry of Education didn't pay money for their tuition. The consequence of that is that when applying for a job, they cannot call for acquired calls. The measure was part of the Roma inclusion action plan for a decade, and the participants of these programmes were enrolled. But the abolition of this measure was in an unfavourable situation. Positive evaluation of the part concerning the elimination of midterm grades for discharge of both students and teachers and teachers in schools. But more importantly, the establishment of a National Council for Education and Education. The expertise of this advisory body could prove to be an important factor in ensuring the quality of the education system. I would also stress the importance of one of the activities envisaged within the work, which is the National Council, which is to propose and encourage the participation of the body of the unit of local and regional self-government in the system of pre-school, primary school and secondary school education and education. Active participation of municipal, urban and county offices is necessary in order to achieve the strategic plan of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports for this period. Their participation is also crucial for the implementation of the National Programme for Roma as well as the Decade of Action Plan for Roma inclusion. We are now also ahead of the adoption of a new National Strategy for Roma inclusion in which the draft, as one of the objectives, mentions an increase in adult Roma levels through adult education programmes, completed primary and secondary education. Therefore, it takes people over 15 years of age who have not completed primary or secondary education to continue education and I hope that local and regional self-government will become more involved than ever before. Same problem, i.e. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area. The final draft of the law, and according to him, the school could enroll a student who had previously discontinued education if his education had not been discontinued for more than 2 years. In view of the fact that the average number of years spent in the education system for the vast majority of Roma are half as much as for most populations, and that often there is a dropout from the school system in both primary and secondary schools. The existence of such an option is important for members of the Roma national minority, however, we see that the proposal limits the length of education interruptions to two years. Why don't you move that line and extend to those who, after three or four years, want to go back to school and finish it. Since the education and education policy of the Republic of Croatia is, among other things, aimed at promoting secondary education for all, and the number of Roma pupils in secondary schools is unsatisfactory. As you know, statistics suggest that only 10% of the Roma population graduates from high school, that I think more measures should be implemented that would result in their completion of high school. So far it is within the National Programme for Roma, and according to the Ministry of Science, Education and Sport's decision on the criteria for enrolment in secondary schools of Roma students whose living conditions could affect the success of education allowed an additional 10% on the total number of points. The measure was effective and, according to my knowledge, affected an increase in the number of Roma national minorities enrolled in high school with that incentive. In this year's Decision on the criteria for enrolment in high school, the measure has been amended and Roma minority members can now get two points for enrolment. This is very unfavourable for achieving the goal we are seeking, which is to increase the number of Roma who finish secondary and higher education. This decision is not part of this law, but I ask the responsible people in the ministry to reconsider that decision and amend the criteria for the next school year. Since this bill contains many measures that enable students to have better quality education and touch some areas that have not been regulated so far, I support its adoption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13526	Thank you, Your Honor. The next representative is Mr. Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13527	Thank you. So in the name of the club, what someone didn't make clear here on my right and we didn't reject this law. We have expressed certain doubts, but we have also said that this law also brings some newspapers that we consider to be good that they are incorporated into this law. But here I want to start this exhibit of mys, and I'd say with one correction to your incorrect assumption that education doesn't start in kindergarten, it starts in the family. Only then in kindergarten, elementary school and high school is the social community, religious communities, etc., etc. However, not to repeat, I will try first and analyze the current situation in education and education. I hope someone won't tell me that I have no idea about it since I attended high school it was then a substitute for high school, it was called an associate in the educational process, so I had pedagoggy and psychology and all the professional classes that were related to school and even that professional practice in elementary and high school. I must note that today what has been declared a long number of years as if the Croatian country of knowledge had clearly shown itself and did not bear much of that responsibility for all that was happening in the exams, but in any case Croatia as a knowledge country does not exist. Nor will there be until the basic matter is resolved, even though the intention of this law is perhaps a better quality system of education and education. But I said that for a better education and education system, most of all, the funds in the 2012 budget were reduced by nearly half a billion kuna. We are also witnessing that the mini tax reform, which first and foremost took off with that income tax game, even though we have proposed a whole new way of financing and practically decentralising the tax system in a way almost 96% of the funding does not end in the state budget, and only 4% is heading towards local self-government and regional self-government units, including the City of Zagreb. So this game with income tax with so-called. By increasing 1.5% of income tax to local self-government units and 0.5% to regional self-government, and by reducing decentralised shares in decentralised functions, almost all schools in Croatia today are in a difficult situation and do not have enough resources for basic needs. At the same time, the tax reform has impoverished additional units of local self-government. So at this point, we don't have any options for further upgrades, and neither will we in the future nor will we have these schools for basic needs such as heating, such as water, such as all directorial costs, and at least they will have the means to obtain neither sponges nor chalk, but to obtain aids that are irreplaceable in the 21st century. So, you can't run a story about schooling like it was in that Serbian children's series Let's move on or get on with it, buddy, but you need first of all to provide the means to raise and educate, but the whole school is in the 21st century. It is also one of the basic issues and is with free transportation of secondary school students, but I also appeal that these funds are normally provided with the help of both regional self-government and local self-government for students. And there's also a question that's about not only that weight of the school bag that hasn't changed, here's how I wore it here four years ago during one current hour, but on the contrary, the number of authors and the number of textbooks has increased. So in schools, children and parents are primarily left to the choice of either the principal or the choice of classrooms related to the procurement of certain textbooks that are extremely expensive and represent a great burden on all Croatian families. Therefore, overall education and education is marked by unstandardized pedagogical programmes and standards, and related to the programme itself is one basic issue that is imposed in the entire system of education and education, and this is certainly the issue of the Homeland War, which in almost all textbooks is represented somewhere. And I'm afraid that young generations in Croatia. So those who will succeed us, from these textbooks not only history, but from Croatian textbooks will very little know about the Homeland War, who, as the modern Croatian state has created, who attacked us, why it attacked us, etc. etc. One of the illogicalities, therefore this law is certainly the choice of directors, where I can agree that so far the question of the functioning of the school board for some may have been questionable, but I remind you that with the representatives of the parents, there were also representatives of the founders, representatives of all the bodies that have been made possible, I would say in the extreme line and one logical choice for the director. So, according to current proposals, the selection process of the principal is to ensure that the members of the school board are bound by the decisions of the bodies who chose them. And then the question arises, which is then the role of the school board itself, because the decision on the selection of directors is also taken on the Teacher's Council, the Council of Parents, or the Working Council. And according to this, some teachers and teachers are besides being members of the Teacher's Council, as well as members of the Council of Workers, and even some are members of the school board. Well, considering, indeed, from all of this, from one whole procedure, and finally after the proposal of the school board where the minister of education is the one who gives final consent whether or not he will pass. There is also a question of establishing a network of schools, which according to current law established the government on the ministry's proposal, while according to a new proposal, the network of schools would bring only the ministry. Which, in my opinion, is extremely bad, is there no broad discussion and there is something that can be done for example. It happened where the hotel-tourism direction was lifted at a school in Jelsa. Here's what I'm saying from Slavonia, but no matter what happens in other parts of the Republic of Croatia. As for the midterm evaluation, believe it's no pressure at all, no fear at all, not even parents. And someone here said what kind of parent he was not once a year came to see what kind of kid his kid was in school, for example. My father, here's the whole time of my schooling he hasn't been to school and I wouldn't say he's a bad parent, but I think he took me out on his working salary on a good trip. Mother went to school, and only to parenting meetings.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13528	Thank you very much. Time's up. Here you go, counselor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13529	I'm done. So, I have a mother and a father, unlike anyone, under the Law of Insemination, you could only have a mother, which is why I'm saying this, Mr. Habek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13530	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13531	Look, they interrupted me, I was just about to finish. So, I'm pushing for midterm evaluation, if one of the teachers is hard to grade a child, then it's no place in the education process at all. And the disaster was those descriptive grades.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13532	Thank you very much, Reverend Vinkovic. Two replicas have been reported for your exposure. And distinguished representative Marijan Škurić, the first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13533	Here's the esteemed Mr. Vice President, the respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here we've heard a lot of tracts, philosophy, intelligence in all of it... But I would have mentioned what was said too,... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] foundation that I have to have schools, I have to have conditions in education. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's been said that schools don't have the funds, that the units of local self-government are impoverished, so we look at everything in a way that I don't know whose schools they are. These schools go to our children, our family children, friends, neighbors, and we have to worry about these schools, not just wait for someone from the county, someone from the country, I don't know where they come from and help us. Which is my mayor, if I may say a comparison from outside the county, my example of the town of Leprechaun. There are three primary schools, all three primary schools are on one shift thanks to a public-private partnership. All three primary schools have gyms. Also, the biggest school in Lepoglav, we encourage excellence, every child going to county, the state competition gets a book, mentors get cash prizes. We can also say that in that part we finance all this from the budget of the city of Lepoglava. 200 thousand kuna, almost 2% of the budget allocated, we invest in education. Also, we use funds from the European Union fund where we have arranged these schools, we have not received funds, we have not waited for someone to help us, but we have actually made it ourselves to ensure a good pedagogical standard, that our children can participate actively. And the same thing in the end, now we've organized the last project, for 200 thousand kuna, we've set up solar panels at the largest school where children can learn what renewable energy sources are, how we treat nature. So it's not like we need someone to give us everything, we have to have a proactive relationship with everything, and I think that's when you see it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13534	Thank you very much. And a response to the replica of respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13535	So I can look back at this smartness, philosophy, but Mr. Representative didn't replicate to me at all, but apparently he wanted to boast about the successes of Leprechaun, I don't know now if it's a city or a municipality. But about who's smart now, who's philosophizing and who doesn't know, and that's allowed now by a new custom here in the Parliament. So, dear boy, I don't know if you have a clue or not, but I'm gonna keep doing this. I have referred to a number of questions concerning the system of education and education, which are related to every Croatian family, which are related to both children and parents, and teachers, and principals, who are ultimately linked primarily to what is called primary and secondary education. So I didn't even talk about colleges. And here I even have one proposal, whether or not the units of local self-government are founders, so according to the budget of the local self-government units are founders of basic education. I suggest that, with the founder, he joins the school board and the representative of the local self-government units, so whether or not he's the founder. And I'm going to continue this class story at the midterm, and don't end up banning the kids from taking that testimony to their father and mother and grandparents, because it was once in history and when I was a little bar I got for ice cream and passing by with 5 as opposed to some others.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13536	Thank you very much. And the next replica to your presentation, the honourable representative, is Agent Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13537	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, if it means what I'm saying to you that you have a clue, and we're not here to judge if there's any idea because we're not even at school, we're here to discuss and confront arguments, and in that sense I answered. You have a particular idea in that part of it very much regarding local and regional self-government where you point to the financial problems created by tax reform because the funds are reduced we cannot deny it, and the school needs are great. We are also aware and you point to the part where the problem is with both heating and equipment and with all the other parts. They don't have all the municipalities and cities of opportunity to please. They do not have all the possibilities, but in those where they do not have the same need for quality education and sports halls and to play and to develop a healthy spirit in a healthy body, that is important. But one more thing you've pointed to is the other part where you really need to be careful and perform with one quality approach. You mentioned the Homeland War, of course, and you also don't need to go with certain speeds, so let's just say that we're going to end the religion, so we're going to sort of put it first or last or last watches, that's all the things that matter and that contribute to quality and dialogue and expertise at school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13538	Thank you, counsel. Replica response, respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13539	I thank you for identifying this one, yes. Mostly these are one of the biggest problems not only in local self-government units but in all schools. I counted because I also held a meeting with the directors of Đakovština elementary schools where almost all schools are missing between 70 and 80 thousand kuna and where this is a real problem. And now whether or not the city bought a textbook for some bag or something. It won't help those schools because the city isn't the founder of those schools. Unfortunately, thanks to an extremely small budget that also causes one of these mini tax reforms. As far as religious science is concerned, I went to religious school, though he wasn't in the system at the time of the second Stipe Shuvar school but I went after school. I was also baptized while the kid's mom took me away, honored and a crisis, and I wasn't baptized as a big Croat, but as a kid. However, I will not, and I will not, and I am not one of those who is in favor of abolishing religious science in schools. I think it's extremely good. So I didn't want to read, or here, for example. what the trade unions have said about this law where they rated it extremely poor especially in this part of the amendments to the law, where the establishment of a National Council for Education and Education is announced, would firstly be a parallel body only to the Ministry would be elected by the Croatian Parliament, and I hope only if it is established that professional people will enter there, so people who have a clue will not enter party counterparts.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13540	Thank you very much. We thus exhausted the lists of registered clubs and representatives for the debate for 10 minutes. I call upon the Minister of Science, Education and Sports to give the final word. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13541	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here in this last part of the debate can start from fellow Vinković and finally solve that enigma of the School in Jelsa, so the School in Jelsa is a regional school, the School in Hvar. Nothing has been lifted, otherwise the network that was brought in 2010 is in effect and is valid until 2013. The school in Jelsa enrolls waiters, chefs, agro-tourism technicians, hotel and tourist technicians. Right now, everyone who wants to stay has 12 seats left for the agro-tourism technician, 8 places for the waiter and 5 places for the chef. So nothing's broken school normally works. As far as the weight of the bag is concerned, the price of the textbooks is clear that this government has not even set the price of the textbooks. These textbooks are worth from 2010 to 2014 but we are going to make the new Law on textbooks that we will have here at the Assembly by the end of this year so that the new generation of textbooks will be more quality-friendly to make the bags cheaper and, of course, it all depends on money in the long run. The e-school project is something that will make the bags easier. My colleague Babić spoke about part of the travel expenses, so once again clear and loud travel costs are not lifted. Negotiations with trade unions have not reduced nor paid teachers, however, all regulations that are in effect 3.5.7.9 increase by 2.3 remain, and now it is only a matter of unions whether there will be enough wisdom to agree on Friday and not to break up the basic collective contract because I think it would be bad for all those on the state budget when we talk about educators. Since the health unions have agreed more or less with everything. On the remarks of Mrs Banic, Mr Kalmet, I responded more or less in that previous report. The rest is inexplicably related to Mrs. Sunny Glavak's remarks, I did say well, so 25 professional programs. There was an observation that she received information that it was standing and waiting for the minister's signature. No, it's not waiting for the Minister's signature. We have received 25 professional curriculas from the Professional Education Agency and, of course, as a responsible ministry, we have looked at this and requested some clarifications, certain analyses, fund hours, teacher relationship, surpluses, we have requested additional reviews and when we get all of this, we will, in accordance with the conditions, approve each of them. Furthermore, enough has been said by Mr. Boric, I will not look back at that because in fact his entire debate is a focus on the work of previous governments, so how many schools were built, why Sadoci School is two years behind construction, so there was nothing I could do as a minister because it was in the previous term. But I said it last time, and I'm going to do it again today, and I really don't want to look back on what's been going on for the past eight years, but then I'd ask my HDZ colleagues to stop talking about it and stop accusing my ministry of some things that we couldn't possibly influence. Next year, when we're here to discuss some things, then you can speak freely of what this ministry has done. And there's Mrs. Roxandić, I don't know if she's there, so Mrs. Roksandic didn't get my message about the e-matrix. Of course, all the honors, great congratulations and thanks to all the teachers and teachers who entered the data, but colleagues and colleagues the biggest problem for the past two years was that teachers had to get up at 3 a.m. to print all these testimonies because the system didn't work. This year the system worked, it worked thanks to what we did in the ministry, these technical improvements that were needed to make the system work. In that sense, at first, I wanted to say that this year you haven't read on the cover any of what's been going on in the past few years. Mr. Vinkovic also said something about the continuation of history. So, I told you that we as a ministry are trying to make changes in the system based on the profession and analysis without any politicizing because we believe that there are no places to politicise. And this whole debate today, which is at the very end, I thank everyone who participated in this debate, and I really think that everyone who discussed it, especially those who discussed the future, is doing it out of the best intentions. And I said that there are situations in which I, as Minister, ask for the opinion of the profession and when 75% of the profession tells me that, the solution A is good, the solution B is not, of course, that I will choose a solution A without any problem. But there are situations and there will always be, when half the profession says that the solution A is good, and half the profession is the solution B. Then I will make the decision and take responsibility for that decision, and then on the basis of four years of work, I hope that I will stay all four years here, we will see what the citizens will say. It's history class. So when I say we're working on the foundations of the profession, we're already going to analyze the results and the letters of tests for which, of course, it's not the government's fault what the results and the state's graduations are again, because the school year started long before we came to power. We started to analyze it, to see why the results of the letter of tests are like that, why the results of the state's graduation are like this, why the teaching of history is what it is, why our math results are bad. That's all we're doing, now we're going to analyze this year's national prom and on this basis offer solutions to how to make classes better, how to make state graduation an objective result of high school work. So, the state's graduation has two assignments with us. The first task is an objective evaluation of school work, and the second is that it became a central entrance exam. It's equally important to the others, but it's even more important to this first one, so let's see why the results are like that, what to make them better. When it comes to continuing history, it's interesting that we had a discussion about it at the ministry. One conclusion was that the programme of teaching history is a bunch of concepts and topics that no one cares about or serves other than evaluations. I keep saying that school has to be for life, and in history, we all know that we're saying that she's a life teacher, so if we're actually just a bug through history, and we're not learning to live, then that's another proof that we need changes in school urgently. Here's to including this debate of ours today on my part, so once again, I thank you all. I stress that all of this shows the importance of lifelong learning, so at school we have to learn how to learn because if we want to master knowledge, then we can never stop learning. And of course everything that is done today in classrooms will reflect the success or failure of civilization in the future. Therefore, knowledge is only when it is gained by the effort of its own thoughts, not by drumming and only by memory. About the finances at some other time, but I can say that we have ensured 146 million kunas that all freshmen should not think about which college they enter, but only about entering what they want, and next week or maybe the one behind it, everything depends now on a clean administrative procedure, there will be a decision at the cabinet session, a regulation weighing 800 million kuna for the next three years where all students in Croatia who regularly meet their obligations and expensive 55 ECTS points in one year will be released from tuition. These are decisions that show that education and science are not spared, and there have been many words about transportation. You know that 70 million kunas are provided in the budget for this school year, and a decision has also been prepared and will be soon at the government on how we will resolve the financing or co-financing of the transportation of pupils to secondary schools. Thanks again to everyone, really without any false demagogy. I'm convinced that everyone who's sitting here today, who's been discussing, wants us to have a better and better school. In some things we agree, in some we disagree, but our goal is certainly common – a quality school without which there is no future for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13542	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Zoran Vinkovic wants to correct the minister's incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13543	Here is the minister himself, and there was really no politicization here, but above all, the intention of all contributing together to Croatia really being a land of knowledge, and I would personally like to have an answer to what will be with this lack of funds in primary and secondary schools.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13544	But do you have something to fix, say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13545	Well, here I am.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13546	What did you fix?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13547	So, the minister said he hoped there was no politicization and now he's finally righted himself and I said that at the beginning.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13548	You're saying he's not hoping.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13549	But I'd love to, don't make me real, I think I've been correct. I was simply looking for an answer to what would happen to all these schools that at this point have a lack of money.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13550	Your Honor, I thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13551	Because that director Mr. Leco won't come to you, but he'll come to me as mayor, he won't have to pay the direction. That's what I'm asking.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13552	Thank you very much. But according to the Rules of Procedure, you have no right to questions but to correct an incorrect assumption. Thank you very much. I have to warn you. That concludes the debate on the text of the law. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13553	We move to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Education in Primary and High School, is an emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ. No. 127. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the club of representatives of HSU and MP Furio Radin. I would like the representative of the motion of the Minister of Science, Education and Sports, the esteemed Željko Jovanovic to declare the amendments. Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives. Amendment 1 to Article 8?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13554	Good afternoon, everyone. Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13555	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 2 to Article 19?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13556	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13557	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13558	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13559	It becomes an integral part of the law. We're moving on to the amendments to the HSU Representatives' Club. Amendment 1 to Article 14?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13560	Amendment 1 to Article 14 relating to the suspension of the assessment is not accepted, since we have also clearly explained during the debate that the evaluation remains but that the formal conclusion of the evaluations is abolished for the reason that both teacher and teacher are so relieved. And since the first term is shorter than the second half, more quality work is made possible since teachers and students, if the conclusion remains only for the 10th and 11th month for the adoption of new material. After all, there is still a rule on ways and procedures and elements of evaluation in primary and secondary school that allows parents to have sufficient quality information at all times on the success of school students.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13561	Thank you very much. The applicant of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13562	I would only call for an indication of the Association of Croatian High School Directors and Croatian Association of Directors of Primary Schools, and I speak for myself because I am an educational worker. They're the population that half-year grade has to stay. The evaluation motivates students and regular learning train and directs regular work to make it easier for students to master material. I know that basic schools need to change the law, we need to establish something new that we have come to very low-level schools in school but changes in school although they are needed they should not be brought by emergency procedure, nor by such drastic measures is it only going to the students' expense. I also agree that it might have been necessary to fix the criteria for how to get a final assessment at the midterm, but when we talk about it then we are going into other topics, the topics of relationship between students and teachers, the topics of how it works. Thus, such a drastic assessment may first need to be helped and to establish a better standard. There's always time for this suspension. I'd like to say one more thing, we're educators very dissatisfied that we never have any luck with ministers. We're the minister of education, the doctor. It looks about like I'm a physics teacher who's gonna come to the hospital and start teaching a doctor how to pull out some kid's tonsils or don't let God operate on the appendix. I'm asking for a vote. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13563	You didn't just tell us if.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13564	The proposal is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13565	That's what we heard. The only thing we haven't heard is the promoters.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13566	I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13567	Yeah, you're asking for a vote. Who's for the amendment of the HSU Club that the government doesn't accept. Who's in? The amendment didn't get the required majority. What? First, I ask peace in the assembly and the second, I ask the professional services to count their votes at the request of the opposition. Who's up for the amendment? Although this was obvious at first sight, I find that the amendment did not receive the required majority because it received only 55 votes. We move on to Amendment number 2 of the same motion to Article 18, please show the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13568	Amendment to Article 18 which shall take place.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13569	Comrades and colleagues, let's wait a little longer, let's listen to the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13570	Amendment 2 to Article 18 concerning the National Council shall not be accepted for the simple reason why the proposed solution proposed by us ensures equal representation of representatives from each segment of the education system, transparent and democratic work in order to improve education and education systems.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13571	You're submitting an amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13572	I'm giving up the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13573	The amendment has been withdrawn. We're moving on to the amendment of Attorney Furi Radin. Amendment 1 to Article 24?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13574	Amendment of the Honorable Representative Dr. Radina is not accepted for the reason that our goal is to provide all students with the best quality work with persons who have achieved professional training and thus do not accept the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13575	The applicant of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13576	And you see in some countries in Europe when you study a particular subject then you have the right to teach something else because you have special exams. For example. if you are studying history you have the right to teach and geography. Since we are about to enter such a group of countries where rules apply to one and the other, then we have proposed something that I think, and otherwise, when we enter Europe after a certain adjustment period, will be achieved regardless of the amendment. Minorities sometimes don't have enough professors from e.g. From geography but they have people who have studied and geography studying something else. This amendment only means that because minority schools are small and otherwise these people are being habilitated to teach, let's take a geography to reflect this in Croatia. Maybe the ministers didn't explain enough to you at the ministry, so I'm voting.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13577	Who's in favour of the amendment of a representative of Furia Radin who the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 2 of the same agent to Article 26?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13578	Since it is related to the amendment in question which has not been accepted, it is also not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13579	Amendment Proposer, Mr Furio Radin would you like to make yourself manifest? The government doesn't accept your amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13580	Voting please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13581	Who is to the amendment of Furia Radina that the government does not accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? The result, please. I find that most of the votes, 86 votes in favour, 39 against and 8 abstentions, have passed the Law on education and education in primary and secondary schools.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13582	I now propose that if you agree to a joint discussion of two next points of the agenda - Final proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Sports, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, CZ No. 133 - Final proposal of the Law on Sport Inspection, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 132 If there are no objections, can I estimate that we can bring together a debate on these two draft laws? We can. Thank you very much. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motions of the acts into the boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. You may submit amendments until the end of the debate in accordance with Article 164(4). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was held: the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, and one and another bill. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain the bill's proposals? Here are the respected Ministers of Science, Education and Sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13583	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here are the honourable MPs and MPs, several introductory sentences around these two laws that are now on the agenda, so amendments and additions to the Law on Sports and the Law on Sport Inspection. The sports system in the Republic of Croatia includes as many as 16000 sports associations, 38 national sports associations, Olympic sports, 32 national sports associations, non-Olympic sports and 10 national sports alliances with the status of an associated or temporary member of the Croatian Olympic Committee, the Croatian Couple Olympic Committee, which includes 11 national sports associations, the Croatian Sports Association of the Deaf, the Croatian School Sports Federation and the Croatian University Sports Federation. Therefore, this shows the breadth of the pyramids of the overall sport in Croatia, with the exception of the general social importance of sport, its development and significance, and contributes to the international reputation of the Republic of Croatia for the legality of the sport system stems from the fact that for the public needs of sport in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012 the planned funds amounting to 191 million 223260 kuna and therefore it is clear that there is a need to have a quality legislative law special Law on sport inspection that will enable effective control of legal and physical persons in the sport system and thus try to ensure legal behaviour in sport activities. The legal proposals ahead of you are going in several directions. So what we're saying is that sport is an activity of particular national interest which is not just a dead letter on paper. This should enable athletes and athletes to access them in a way that also has quality health care, quality pension care, to enable them to have quality schooling so that they can have, at the end of their career, their experience and sports skills and other skills that will make their life easier after their sports career. Second, we would like to highlight especially because of the numerous negativeities that were present in sports. We witness this almost daily from corruption, crime, hooligan outbursts, racism, discrimination on a national, regional and other basis. We believe that sports inspection is something that is, in fact, the reason why this law is also an emergency procedure. Of course, we prevent conflict of interest and all those anomalies that are present today in almost every sport, not to mention any sport in particular. Then through these legal solutions we want to further improve the health care of athletes and encourage even more inclusion of young people in the sports system through the improvement of school and student sports. In this direction are the legal solutions that are before you, and I would especially like to stress that the main problem of the current law has been that it has not been applied. Thus, the law was not so bad, but it was not applied in practice. A large number of sublegal acts, and sports inspection is a key example not brought. And if someone asks me what's wrong with that law, then it's that it hasn't been applied. If it was delivered in 2006, and today it is 2012. I wonder why no sports inspection has been established all this time? So that's the question. Would today's sports anomalies be less if a sports inspection had been established? And that's why sports inspection is the key to everything that comes out of these two legal proposals. When it comes to preventing conflicts of interest, I will not particularly read everything that is stated in the law, but I especially stress the regulation of the status of manager in sport which, of course, can continue to deal with its managerial call, but no manager can sit in the administrations of sports clubs, sports alliances regardless of which sport is involved because it is natural then in conflict of interest, and I think we all want to prevent conflict of interest, corruption and allow sport to be something that is successful thanks to talent, work, not crime and corruption. For this reason, we particularly point out who cannot participate in any way in the organisation of sports competitions, professional activities, representation of legal persons. Therefore, all persons who are legally convicted of any of the criminal offences to a prison sentence of at least 6 months, if the offence is committed with intent and no conditional conviction has been applied, while in particular we stress that the current suspension from performing a job in sport is proposed for persons against whom a criminal offence has been committed for the harm of children, or minors. We would like to point out in particular how important it is for children involved in sports to be deprived of any form of conduct that is not in accordance with the law. Once again, I stress that our desire to strengthen our sport in Croatian universities is now far away from what we would like. And that is why I point out the role of the Croatian academic sports alliance. Given the problem of sportsmen's health care, we also point out that it is necessary to deal with it better than before. The big problem with sports is that we don't have enough quality educated people to work especially with young people. According to this law, a part of them, according to the current law, should stop working because they did not acquire the professional training he had to, and therefore extend the time limit from 8 to 11 years and leave the possibility of finally getting that education that is required of all of them so that they can do their job in a quality way. Therefore, these solutions, which are ahead of you, I am convinced, will allow all that has happened in Croatia in recent years to the harm of athletes and athletes, from a small number of people who have lived very well at the expense of athletes, will no longer be able to happen. I think that with these legal solutions, we create a fundamental way to protect all participants of sports especially children, students, young people, athletes, all citizens, experts in sports and persons who participate in the organisation and conduct of sports competitions against illegal and non-transparent work of improvisation. Here I may be an optimist, but I believe that these two legal solutions could come in unanimously and thus show to what extent we together want to solve the situation in sport in a way that as many young people as possible are engaged in sports, and in the end, from such a large base we will also get top athletes. At this point, we have 108 Olympics reported leaving for London. Last time they came back with five medals. Let's make it at least six this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13584	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. Do the workers want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. We are going to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the first SDP club in Croatia and respected representative Mario Habek. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13585	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So here's a great pleasure for me today on behalf of the SDP Club to talk about the amendments and additions to the Sport Act because here I have shared for years the fate of athletes as the top champion and participant of major world competitions can very well feel the changes proposed by this law and all the shortcomings and riots that have caused the existing law. Why should these changes also be adopted by emergency procedure? I would feel free to say that no emergency procedure is urgent enough for Croatian sport. We think this is the final moment to save Croatian sport from problems, crime, riots, public disgrace and profiteers robbing the Croatian state and the parents of young children who see an opportunity for their children in sport. All this cannot be done without good law, without those who will enforce it, but also oversee it. Therefore, our responsibility as legislator is great and we must be aware of the interest and expectations of the Croatian sports public that is watching us. Because the Republic of Croatia and its citizens, at the most difficult times in history, had just given sport hope and helped overcome the difficult times. What Croatian athletes and athletes gave our citizens is not only sports successes, medals and records, but strengthening national pride and awareness. These are immeasurable and with nothing comparable. The silver medal of basketball players at the Barcelona Olympics, the Olympic gold handball player, the bronze football player, the medals of Filip Ude, Sanja Jovanovic, Blanca Vlasic, Mica Milosevic or the heroic struggle of Janica and Ivica Kostelic and many others cannot be measured as GDP growth, but they are certainly equally important. That's why all the former and present, but first and foremost future athletes and athletes deserve to have a law that will support them, but also protect them. Now, just in short lines, I would draw attention to some of the most important changes that are proposed to these changes. Perhaps the most important change is in the very definition of sports activity as an activity of particular interest for the Republic of Croatia, thus showing a clear commitment to better quality sports monitoring by the state. It is also important to mention in the tax section the renaming of the Croatian University Sports Union into the Croatian Academy Sports Federation because it has caused certain misunderstandings and misunderstandings in higher education and higher schools and a spelling correction called sport in sport, which is more suitable for Croatian language tradition and rooting in everyday language practice. The National Sports Council is also defined as a professional and advisory body. In order to prevent a possible conflict of interest in sport, it is prescribed that all provisions of the Sport Act relating to sports managers must apply to all natural and legal persons who have contracted to invest in athletes and trainers on the basis of which they have the right to part of the revenues resulting from the performance of their activities and which, according to their content, correspond to the activities of the manager in sport. The same applies to members of the body of the sports club, the competition association and the restrictions are extended to persons authorised to represent the sports club, the competition association. The Sport Act contains provisions under which a person legally convicted of a criminal offence against the Republic of Croatia, for a criminal offence against the values protected by international law, for a criminal offence against sexual freedom and sexual law, for a criminal offence against life and the body unless committed on a maim or non-major basis and for another criminal offence for which an unconditional sentence of 3 or more years of imprisonment may not be carried out in sport as well as a provision which prescribed that a person against whom a criminal offence for a criminal offence for which a sentence of 3 years of imprisonment may be imposed or a more severe penalty be removed from participation in sports competitions, from professional activities in sport and participation in the work of a assembly or body of the management of a sports association or a commercial society until the end of proceedings. These amendments and additions to the laws propose to prohibit participation in sports competitions, organisations and sports competitions, to carry out professional activities in sport, to represent a legal person, to participate in the work of a congregation or bodies in the management of a sports association or a commercial society to persons who are legally convicted of some of the criminal offences to prison for a period of at least 6 months, and if the offence is committed with intent and no conditional conviction is applied. While suspension from performing sports activities is proposed for persons against whom a criminal offence has been committed against the harm of children, or minors. It is also carried out to harmonise the provisions on professional status of sports clubs with provisions prescribed when participating in sports competitions is considered professional. What I would particularly draw attention to in view of the role of sports communities and in order to make their activities more clear at the level of the local and regional self-government units and the City of Zagreb can be established only one sports community. The Croatian academic sports alliance prescribes the status of the National Sports Federation and elaborates on duties and tasks. Given the insufficient number of specialists in sports medicine, i.e. specialist in medicine and sports in the cities of the Republic of Croatia, it is proposed that general and special medical skills be determined by specialists in medical work and doctors of other specialities who have completed postgraduate studies in medicine and sports. The Law on Sports stipulates that the State Prize for Supreme and Sports Achievements in certain cases is awarded, and in certain cases it can be awarded, it is prescribed to assign athletes, sports teams, coaches and with them to active sports professionals. This legislative proposal proposes that the award be awarded to athletes, sports teams and active professional sports persons who are established by the National Sports Federation and that the allocation of awards for all professional persons be given to alliances in order to avoid the illogicality of the distribution between coaches and professional professionals. It is also proposed to extend the deadline for acquiring professional training to 11 years from the date of entry into force of the Sport Act for the reasons that the analysis showed that a large number of clubs in Croatia still do not have adequately trained, or trained staff to carry out professional activities in sport. However, in order for the law to be applied properly, it is also necessary to exercise supervision and introduce lawfulness into the system of sports, thus extending the provisions on the supervision of sports activities and the provisions on sanctioning offenders. The adoption of these amendments, which will prescribe powers, the way in which... sports inspections will be carried out, will create a quality framework for the exercise of control over the application of the Law on Sports and other regulations adopted under that law. The implementation of effective supervision in the sport system will prevent the poor functioning of natural and legal persons in the sport system and thus protect all participants in sports, children, students, youth, athletes, citizens of the professional person in sport and persons involved in the organisation and running of sports competitions, from illegal and non-transparent work and improvisation. The appropriate legislative framework on the action of sports inspection will improve the supervision of many sports entities in the Republic of Croatia, supervision of the activities of associations, institutions, trading societies and other legal and physical persons performing sports activities. The inspection service which conducts quality and effective supervision of sports operators will help solve the accumulated problems of roof sports associations, alliances, sports associations for competitions and other legal and physical persons in the system of sports and the introduction of order in the system of sport. These amendments provide that the first stage of supervision is carried out by sports inspectors and senior sports inspectors in the offices of the state administration in the counties, i.e. the City Office of Zagreb, and the second stage of state sports inspectors, senior state sports inspectors and chief sports inspectors of the sports ministry. The inspection procedure would be conducted on official duty. A competent person shall decide on the initiation of the inspection procedure for inspection. When he finds that the law or other regulation which is authorised to supervise has been violated, the inspector will take measures, or carry out actions authorised by law or by other law, and the carriage in breach of the rules on whose application the supervision is carried out by another inspection or other body of the State administration. The inspector will report the injury to the competent authority. Once the inspector has observed a breach of the rules for whose enforcement is competent by one of the sports authorities, the inspector will inform the body about the injury, and if he considers that there is a suspicion of committing a criminal offence, he will report it to the competent authority of the persecution. On the basis of the facts set out, the inspector may give the order or prohibition and issue an infringement order or file an indictment against the competent court. The person authorised to decide to initiate the inspection procedure shall be independent in the decision, and the inspector shall be responsible for the conduct of the procedure, the operation and the taking of the measures for which he is authorised. Finally, here I am proud to say that these changes will necessarily bring about the necessary changes in Croatian sport, which has always been to the pride of all citizens and citizens of this country. And that's why the SDP club will support these amendments and additions to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13586	Thank you, Your Honor. The word is given by Croatian Labourists and respected representative Mladen Novak. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13587	Dear Vice President, distinguished ministers with a deputy, dear colleagues. I suppose everyone remembers the minister's statement about the mirror. I don't want to talk about whether the statement was appropriate or not, but I want to say that I was as likely as most Croatian citizens, that I'm not thrilled to say that someone has the nerve to fight crime, the corruption that governs the good part of our sport. Now the minister was saying something about it, but he avoided a word that part of the sport was most exposed in that sense, although when he spoke about the mirror then he quite accurately named it, which part of the sport was it. And when, when I was, let's say, I was delighted with the fact that there is now a uncompromising fight against corruption, crime in the primarily Croatian Football Federation, I read a statement in the media, Mr. Scansi, that HNS, the Croatian Football Federation, so that colleagues will not be called, that the Croatian Football Federation is the perjanics of sports alliances. Almost completely media unsettled was the meeting of the assembly of this alliance at which certain changes had taken place in the statute, and Article 38 was deleted: "That members of the assembly may cease office before the deadline if they are legally convicted of the offence committed.". Therefore, Article 41 of the Code was abolished: "That a member of the Executive Board of the Croatian Football Federation cannot be a person who is legally convicted of any of the criminal acts or has not been two years since a sustained, forgiven or outdated sentence for one of the crimes.". Now I wonder if the picture in the mirror has changed, have these in the mirror with... Changed, if there was a common language between ministers and appointed or the minister retreated simply, through some struggle with and became aware of how strong that part was there. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't know, time will show how principled you really are in that fight, which you mentioned earlier, that crime, corruption, and all the other evil that exists, is what's negative in sports to eradicate it. However, now and through this second part, that is, the second law in this package you have and, let's say in a slightly wider possibility, everything depends only on application and goodwill, apparently. On the board, the minister announced that his goal was to improve sports in high schools and universities. That's what I support, but I'd add elementary schools. Is the fact that if some habits are created, created at the youngest age, and certain that if children are of primary school age, they acquire habits for, to engage in sports, then they will probably have these habits later, and otherwise they will hardly get those habits. Funding sports, but not the top sport, and not the one that has now attracted the most attention through the media, is about those awards that are minors not in the media equal to pensions, but amateur sports that are at a level, that is, children's age. Sometimes sports clubs had, there was no membership fee, there was no obligation for parents to buy all sports props, to pay for competition fees, but today it's quite different. So if you have a child or two children who are engaged in sports, you have to membership about 100 kuna per month per child, you have to check out the fees for the competition, you have to equip all the ones you need for that particular sport. I know the money's gone, I know it can't be settled overnight, but since it's announced for the fall a new law that will be more fully addressed by the question of sports. I hope the ministers and this part of you will consider it the fact that it's the most vulnerable group and it's the hardest thing to defend. It is also impossible to expect that, with nearly 350 thousand unemployed people, these people will be able to take place especially from that group for all that I have listed earlier. Otherwise of what we do, we say that sport is only for those who have it. And I don't think anyone here would want to send that message. One more thing has been mentioned on the board that this law will go, or a full law, that will go to the fall which will include where and where better changes and additions will be made, however, it has been said that the basis for this law will also be the existing draft of this law. Since the current draft practically excluded the Alliance of Deaf, Neolimpic Sports, even the public defender for people with disabilities reacted. I don't think any of us need that kind of lewdness or that's in the interests of the ministry. I believe we'll probably be the first state to shut down the Alliance of the Deaf, I don't see the need for that. A lot of media pompe has gone up about it, I hope you'll have a hearing about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13588	Thank you, Your Honor. The next club is the HDZ club and respected representative Ante Kulušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13589	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. Before the debate began, the minister said at the beginning that we had had a good law since 2006 but had not been implemented. But if he hasn't had a good time before, I wonder why you haven't spent it in the last six months. With my colleague, I absolutely agree that there is a need to eradicate corruption from sports, no one is against it and so far there are laws that have unfortunately not been implemented. Of course any sincere sport friend would otherwise welcome such an action initiated by the Ministry of Sports that it is indeed a sincere attempt to improve Croatian sport and not just a dead letter on paper. But a much bigger problem than that is that Minister Jovanovic has the same strength with us as the applicable law. I'll quote the minister when he talks about Article 2 of the proposed law, "The amendments prescribe that sport is an activity of special national interest which has not been indicated so far." What is best said about the fact that since January of this year, when Minister Jovanovic announced the start of work on changes and amendments to the law on sport, and in order to quote it in his announcements "the strategic guidelines for long-term development of sports in Croatia, establish operational objectives and appropriate deadlines and concrete activities to achieve these same objectives". Today, we have before us a law in an emergency procedure that has only one purpose and that is not good for Croatian sport, which is finding a legal way to exclude one person from Croatian sport. In this regard, Article 6 of the amendments and additions proposed, which relate to Article 12, regulates the position of all those who are legally benefiting from the purchase of players, that the law has been prepared for a purpose only for the sake of one person, which is why the minister established and a larger working group at the ministry indicates an important addition that extends the definition of the manager to all persons who have contracted on so-called. investment in natural persons in the system of sports and which demand part of the current or future income from them. But what was the reason for these long - awaited changes and additions? These were Ministerial announcements on the regulation of compensation for the excellence of the most deserved Croatian athletes of Olympic and world medals. At the time of the great triumphs, everyone is pushing around, hugging them, writing praises that they are the best promoters and ambassadors of the Croatian state. But the big victories of athletes don't come just because they're bigger talents than others. This is often the result of superhuman effort and will, thousands of hours of training and giving up, personal material expenditure and rapid use of the organism. Sports career is short. That is why the Croatian Parliament voted last October in the term of the HDZ government to regulate that right. The transitional and final provisions of the law obliged the government of the Republic of Croatia to adopt a regulation within 6 months that would prescribe the conditions and the height of those laws, which, due to the change of government, was also required by the coalition government of Zoran Milanovic. However, despite the March announcements of Assistant Minister Scansi that the fee regulation has already been written and that the figures have been specified and that the vote in the parliament would be in May this year from the ministry has suddenly been silent. Although the current Croatian Olympics were assured by the ministry's representatives that the issue of fees for these amendments and additions would finally be resolved and after the proposed law was supported by the Croatian Olympic Committee and the Croatian Olympic Club, the Government for proposed amendments and additions for unknown reasons, rejected the provisions relating to the fees for top athletes. No wonder the proposed law caused no disappointment in both the former and those active young athletes who are currently preparing in London at the Olympics to defend the color of our flag. I must take this opportunity to point out the importance and importance of sports, first of all I think it is important today, given the situation and the problems that are present at all levels of sports in Croatia. I'm sorry that sport generally, in my opinion, has no place in the country in a society that deserves it. I stress this because I am deeply aware and familiar with the state and problems in sport and I want to again because of the public because of the sports and athletes because of young people, to point out that sport is an important social activity whose role in society and the state is unrepeated from a number of different perspectives. It is therefore unacceptable for the HDZ Representatives' Club to discuss this important matter by emergency procedure as proposed and voted by the ruling coalition. I ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia does the Croatian word sport really bother you so much, and couldn't you wait for the fall session of the Parliament and you announced changes to the law in the autumn and made a more quality proposal that would cover a lot more open questions about sports such as the financing model? Asked for the opinion of Croatian linguists as a follow-up and Croatian language manuals give a normative advantage to sports. I'm just wondering where the clubs are going to finance changing complete documentation and paperwork because of this change in you? We are also in the HDZ club that Minister Jovanovic, in both his parliamentary mandate and when he became minister, has liked to use abusive terms that are not similar to the Croatian Government Minister and has called the Croatian Football Federation the same Croatian Football Federation as his closest associate Mr. Skansi ten days ago called the perjanica of Croatian sport. This is what you ministers and you have convinced yourselves by looking at the Croatian team in Poland, which means everything to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and it would be much better if, in accordance with your powers, you could address burning issues such as preventing incidents in sports competitions and returning the audience to the same. It is known that all Croatian clubs are in a difficult financial crisis, not only because of the poor work of the administration, because more than 90% of the players in the Croatian football team have canceled right from the clubs of the first Croatian football league. As a result of all of this, the HDZ Representatives Club cannot support the proposed amendments and additions. When we talk about the Proposal for a Law on Sport Inspection, I can't help but notice that the purpose of lawmaking is actually to hire three new civil servants for whom it is necessary to single out if I understand well 2 million and 500 thousand kuna. I don't know how much that, or some mistake, I don't know how much that salary would be for those employees, which the minister can't claim to be filled with the redistribution of state officials in the ministry. Since the transitional and final provisions of the law state that the jobs of the head of senior sports inspector and sports inspector may be employed by persons who do not have a state expert exam, I wonder if this is another one in a series of SDP laws needed to arrest political counterparts. It's a shame to discuss today a law relating to a club and a man. From the media, both the minister and the person to whom the law applies, we are more than clear to all of us that it is a personal account of the minister and the mentioned sports worker. What I said shouldn't be seen as my defense of that same club and sports worker, though. I'm going to repeat once again the fact that we're all hostages to the personal accounts of the minister and that club. I will quote Minister Jovanovic once again, freezing management licenses will mean nothing if a conflict of interest has already been demonstrated. It will be enough to prove that there is a conflict of interest. And it continues, it's important that we have a tool to monitor how money from the state budget is spent. Well, Mr. Minister, the Republic of Croatia in its legislative system already has tools for certain anomalies, as you say, and enough just to implement them. In view of all of the above, the HDZ Representatives Club will not support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13590	Thank you, Your Honor. Next is the club HSU and respected representative Zeljko Shemper. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13591	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Sport Act which is proposed and amended the name of the law itself. It's not a sport anymore. We're going back to sports as it was years ago. Sport has a great social significance and an educational role. Any sporting activity plays a major role in the health care of all age groups, from children to pensioners, and the law stipulates that sports activity is of special interest to the Republic of Croatia. A few months ago, on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament, we also had a report from the National Sports Council as the highest professional body to care for the development and quality of sports in the Republic of Croatia. Since the main role of the National Sports Council has so far been to give an expert opinion on this proposal, it is proposed to be a professional and advisory body. In recent years, we have often read about early conflicts of interest in sport, sportsmen's relations, mostly famous football players and their managers behind whom enormously high Euromillion transfers stand. The big secret hides every transfer like that, the state doesn't pay taxes. The biggest problem is how to transparently share that big cookie on all the interested parties, on the players, on the club he's leaving, on the parent club where he started his career and on the manager who successfully sold such a star. So far, the manager has been defined as a person who, according to the rules of the national alliance, was authorized to mediate sportsmen from one club to another. There was no order, no affairs and too many. This bill seeks to prevent possible conflict of interest in sport, so the provisions of the Management Act must also apply to all natural and legal persons who have contracts to invest in athletes and trainers, to have the right to part of the income arising from their activities. I expect that such provisions will create a number of order, prevent the slave relationship of managers and athletes, which at least according to media writing so far were for example in the case of Mamic and Eduard. In order to achieve common interests in sport, only one sports community can be established in the field of local units and regional self-government. They coordinate all activities of their members, promote and promote sport, especially in children, youth and persons with disabilities, propose programmes and participate in its realization. Sports communities also care for categorized athletes where they regulate the scope and way of exercising their rights and participate in their preparations for the Olympic Games, world and European championships. The financial burden and the realisation of the decisions of the Croatian Olympic Committee on the fees of categorized athletes, where there has been so far injustice and discrimination in the payment of these fees, depending on which city, big or small, whether the athlete comes with what means, greater or smaller, there is a local sports community. For this reason, it would be good for the first category athletes to be paid by the Croatian Olympic Committee because it guarantees equality and justice, not sports communities that do not have enough funding in smaller cities like those in large cities. The so far sport law has not defined the award of state awards for top sports achievements. In some cases, the prize was awarded, and in some cases it could be awarded. In addition, the herself distribution of such rewards was controversial. There were no criteria how many athletes would get, how many coaches, menu, doctor or physiotherapist. This legislative proposal proposes that the award be awarded to athletes, sports teams and active professional sports persons according to the criteria set by the National Sports Federation. In the draft of this law, the ministry proposed not pensions but awards for excellence for winners of gold, silver and bronze medals at the Olympic Games, world and European championships, but only for Olympic sports. The proposal sparked a storm of medalist Paralympic Sports protests, as well as the Croatian Sports Alliance of the Deaf who were also left out. In the end, the protests were joined by medal winners in neo-Olympic sports who were also to lose their prizes. If, at some point in time, it is necessary to set certain criteria and the real height of such rewards on the agenda. It must stick to the principle that every Olympic or world medal of any glow is a very valuable achievement because there is a lot of sweat, love and denial in it. There is no need to distinguish whether it is a small or large sport, popular or less popular. The proposal also came public with all kinds of responses and comments, as the media mispublished that it was a sports pension after 45 years of life. We in Croatia have been bombed by protests and questions about how such a high pension can be obtained without payment of contributions. For the gold medal, an amount of more than 8000 kuna was planned, while today, for example, a worker for 40 years of internship and an average Croatian salary throughout the working century can receive an old pension of around 3000 kuna. It's a good thing at least so far it's given up such proposals, because it's really not a good time for that compared to the economic opportunities in the country. The Croatian party of pensioners has had very good agreements with the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 2003, but unlike the strong union agreements in our country, there has always been a clause in line with the economic opportunities of the state, so this should also be applied to the problem. And these economic opportunities have never been great, especially today. The law on sport defines natural and legal persons in the system of sports, and their rights and obligations. Professional activities on sport as well as the conditions to be met by persons performing those tasks are prescribed. The sports system in the Republic of Croatia includes about 16000 sports associations, 38 national sports associations of the Olympics, 32 national sports alliances of non-Olympic sports and several other alliances. As many good laws as there are, if there is no control of their application, that is, inspection control of legal and physical affairs in the system of sports can happen. That so far there has been no evidence of frequent complaints to the ministry about violations of the provisions of the Sport Act, and the need for an effective surveillance system has been imposed. This responsibility for legality in the sport system stems from the fact that for the public needs of sport in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012 the planned funds amounting to... Kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For this reason, it was necessary to adopt a Law on Sports Inspection that would enable the supervision of legal and physical persons working in the system of sports. Its inspection service will be able to carry out quality and effective supervision of sports operators and thus contribute to the introduction of order in the Croatian sport system. All of this shows that this bill puts more order into the system of sports, so the Croatian party will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13592	Thank you, Your Honor. It is up to the HDSSB club and respected representatives Igor Češek and Zoran Vinkovic, to share time. Here you go, Your Honor. It's just Igor Chesek, come in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13593	Dear Vice President, Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. What's a sport? Today, the concept of sport involves various activities in which in a specific way there is a full expression of the athlete’s ability, qualities and knowledge in training and competition. According to the definition of the level of sport can be top-of-the-line or selective and mass, i.e. non-selective. In the field of sports, several systems exist, which are professional sport, amateur sport, recreational sport, school sport and sports for people with disabilities. Some of the reasons involved in sports can be entertainment, body development, skills improvement, competition spirit. For Croatian citizens, sports means a lot, and this means that order must be introduced into it from countless examples of the unsettled area. How much of Croatia means sport also proves that about 16000 sports associations, 38 national sports associations of Olympic sports, 32 national sports alliances of neo-Olympic sports, Croatian steam Olympic board, Croatian sports alliance of deaf, Croatian school sports alliance and Croatian academic or university sports alliances are operating in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia, we have two huge contradictions. On the one hand, we have a majority, worth an honest Croatian people who have worked hard for centuries and dreamed of their independence, for them both on battlefields and on sports grounds. When he finally realizes his dream and has patience, he has 20 years of patience from his independence by dreaming now of his country being achieved justly. On the other hand, we have a few greedy people. The few would stand in two, three Remetins, which 20 years of the patience of the Croatian people destroyed everything the Croatian people dreamed of since the seventh century. What's a Croatian sport? On the one hand, Croatian sport is Croatia's magnificent ambassador around the world. Our athletes are conquerors of countless medals in almost all sports disciplines, on all continents of the world. There is literally no inhabitants of the globe who have not heard of a small Croatian athlete. Even those whose sport is not interesting heard of Croatia right through our athletes. Unfortunately, on the other hand, a small, magnificent Croatia full of crime and profiteers in a sport that even the whole world would not be ashamed of. Yes, dear colleagues and colleagues, it is unfortunately a picture of Croatia and Croatian sports. Although the minister announced a brand-new Sport Act, it did not happen. What will the new Amendments and Sports Law Proposal bring? Reading it is visible that it is modified and that the minister still shows good will to introduce order into sport, but it is quite certain that Croatia must have a clear strategy for the development of sport. We need to know what we want. Unfortunately, a good part of the sport has already fallen to low branches, family branches. Let's remember the Vlasic and Kostelic families where these top athletes only thanks to the enormous denial and perseverance of themselves and their families have come to top results and where the state has not been of great help to them. Let us also remember the cases of last winter where a top athlete, 20-year-old young man, Franjo Opačak, won gold medals at the World Cup in taekwondo, practically remained homeless without the state doing anything to help him. Yeah, that's the kind of thing you need to change. What changes this compared to the existing 2006 Sport Act? We can see from the beginning that Article 1(2), which said that sport is based on the principle of volunteering, and now, according to the new proposal, this item is being changed and said: "Sport activities are of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia", so by respecting that item, we can conclude and ultimately expect that more concerns will be brought about by all athletes, whether they are recreational sports, especially school sports, and that the case of Opačak will never happen again. Article 3 of the current law discusses the powers of the National Sports Council. According to a new proposal, the National Sports Council, apart from the professional station and the advisory body, provides a preliminary opinion on the existence of an interest in the Croatian citizenship of a natural person in a foreign citizen's system of sports. If professional athletes sit in the National Sports Council, they will certainly recognise the qualities of athletes seeking Croatian citizenship and make a fair decision on giving citizenship to such persons. Now talk about the National Sports Council we had a debate when we read the National Sports Council Report, correct me if I'm wrong but haven't done much of what they've drawn. They were given around 750 thousand kuna in their budget for projects, i.e. they were to draft a strategy for the development of sports in the Republic of Croatia from 2012 to 2015. I don't know what stage they came up with right now. According to the new bill, the status of manager is also changing. By new definition, managers will be all natural and legal persons who have any financial contracts with athletes. And in order to prevent a direct conflict of interest, they will not be able to sit in the boards of clubs and sports alliances. What to say about the proposal of the Law of Sports Inspectorate? Another inspectorate is being established. Whether it is needed or not time will show, but according to the proposal, it aims to introduce order in the business related to sport. The inspectorate will be able to enter all clubs, sports associations and organisations unannounced and to comb their operations and to verify whether the statutes have been adopted under the prescribed procedure and whether the funds from public sources have been spent on purpose. So sports inspectors will be able to check club leaders how they do business, whether by law or by that verified fact that money solves everything. Now, knowing how much money there is in certain clubs is the question, and how do we know that people are corrupt goods, are these inspectors really going to do their job or are they going to bow down to dirty black bags and change their camp very quickly? Time will show how honest they will be. And by the way, I'm sincerely hoping that these inspectors won't just be figures and party alike. Finally, there is an old saying that says bread and games. Since there is no bread for most citizens, and those who have it, I'm afraid they won't have it soon. At least let the sports and activities associated with it be fair play. As many athletes support such changes, the HDSSB club will support these two laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13594	Thank you. It is the turn of the HNS club and the respected representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13595	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. I'll start by saying that the HNS club will support this law, and then I'll explain why in the presentation. I will refer at the beginning to the situation, the real situation that we have today in Croatian sport, and I would not unfairly single out in the negative context of a particular sports alliance, although there are elements for it, regardless of the opposite opinions of some previous speakers, but we can conclude that Croatia's sport today suffers from a lack of criteria, from an irregular business and from neglect of its basic purpose, which is clearly defined in the existing Sport Act, and also in the documents that we have ahead of us. How important sport I think is that there is no need to spend words on it, its core in every healthy and mature society is its fundamental intensity to cover the wider layer of the population, as many generations as possible to be engaged in sports for the sake of health, to raise as many children through sport and form into young and responsible persons who are able to function in society as responsible, hardworking and team players. And on the day that they hang their bathing shoes, or sports slippers, which we Dalmatians say on the bra and when the sports career of amateur or professional stays far behind. Is that how it is with us today? How and how do we have the resources in sports, how do we run sports clubs, and what are the problems open? And in the very explanation of this law, it is mentioned that, for example, in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia and for this year in which we cut all the items and so probably the item set for sport, 191 million and several hundred thousand kunas are determined, and that figure is fascinating. However, the real figure is even more fascinating. Considering that the vast majority of local self-government and regional self-government in their budgets stand out from 5, 6 to 10, 11% of how much my city stands out of which I come as deputy mayor, so I know the number, it's no secret, the total separation of the city of Sibenik for sport is about 20 million kuna. When you count how many units of local self-government there are in Croatia, when you count how many units of regional administrations there are in Croatia, when you know the truth about how much under political pressures and mentoring you get money out of state-owned companies, public institutions like national parks, so you move to various channels in sports clubs which are not registered as professional clubs or as private clubs, which in some cases are often real, then it's clear to you that there is a black hole in Croatia where billions are poured into the registers of sports clubs, and out of which come rich directors of sports clubs, drive limos like the vast majority of you parliamentary representatives and MPs, of course you can't afford it, enjoy various benefits, have an excellent standard, and that nobody can answer the question of where such standard, where does such money and how much as a legal or physical person paid tax for it? The question, sports manager, question at all sports club status, no clear rules that would truly separate amateur sports that we are obliged to finance from the budget of local self-government units and that professional sport that should be a professional activity with clear powers and clear responsibilities. We never solved those questions. The results obtained by Croatian athletes in top-notch competitions such as the Olympic Games, recent years have become increasingly common, the results of individuals, excellent individuals and very often in sports where we pay the least attention, in which we at least invest and which are least commercially exposed. I assure you and argue responsibly that none of the olympic four rowers who have won a series of trophies so far, and hopefully the best trophy at the next Olympics. So let's say neither athlete who has been preying on the results of the last few years, none of them will have material status, or secured existence, or nearly as much second-rate first-class player in some shouting sports. It's not just about the football alliance, it's about people who are truly in love with sports and decent sports workers, but the truth is there are bar birds. The problem is in some other alliances, some of the team sports that we used to prey on, today the remains of the remains and only we who are already saying in some serious years remember the days when we had great results in those sports are gone. The foundation, which is a sport in elementary schools that should be expanded, which should be a commitment, is only present in clues. The sports halls of elementary schools are used for the recreation of powerful men and those who have money, and are not used for what they should be for and why the citizens have paid them by seizing them from their pay by filling the city budgets, the budgets of the units of the regional administration and the state budget. In such an atmosphere and a series of open problems comes this proposal to amend and supplement the Sport Act, in which some formal changes are seen, I personally don't mind whether sport or sport, I use alterations as one and another expression comes to me spontaneously. I'm being honest, so I admit it. I don't think it's an attack in Croatian, but okay, I'm not an expert, linguists and linguists will judge very likely in the coming days. What we welcome is the introduction of a sports inspection. No matter what it costs, the introduction of a service that will have clear powers and a clear responsibility to go into that black hole and look where and how billions of kunas, Croatian citizens and economies go, who and how it uses them, is absolutely a welcome thing and we needed it. Too bad someone hasn't thought of that before. So compliments, Mr. Minister. What we think is insufficiently defined in this law and we as a club will give an amendment, that is the definition of professional sports clubs, that is, the definition there is, she says: "That sports and professional clubs are those who have 50% senior professionals, but they are given to national alliances to judge who they are professionals.". The opinion of the HNS club is that it is necessary to determine the censorship, the receptions that a senior athlete achieves then enters the category of professionals and then it is very easy to tell which sports clubs are professional and which are as such in a particular one and it remains for every citizen of this Croatia, every club, every athlete to say whether he is a athlete or a athlete. So there's no cost. At this point, three key documents are being made. It's a national strategy to develop sports, it's a strategy to finance sports, and they're having a hard time. The job is in a public competition, when it comes to sports financing, the Institute of Economics. It will analyse all possible aspects, all possible models of sport financing, and then, based on the national strategy that was to be adopted by the National Council, but it is not and this document will determine how to develop sport. But it is already clear that sports must be categorized and that, based on the categorisation of sports, we must decide what and in what way to finance the state, where the country should build a base of school sport, student sport, and as the base narrows down to the top of the sport will be as high as possible, the larger the base and the role of the state is to ensure development and work with young people, and towards the top where professional clubs of professional management have been in line with fair play financial fair play financial discipline ensuring the work of professional clubs not to spend more than they have come to what was rarely the biggest problem so far. And I really don't understand the exposure of Mr. Klusic's representative who performed not as a representative of the club but as a representative of one person all the time that he said that there was any objection to the Sport Inspectorship when the Sport Inspector had precisely the task that every athlete, every Croatian citizen who cared about sports would want to do, so to prevent taxpayers' money from going into someone's private pockets without even getting their own food so that athletes can't pay for their own apartment if it's simply a sports inspection is a tool in the hands that this ministry can enable all athletes to deal with sports and that they can't be used by a small narrow circle of people. It's just that part of the manager used athletes, and that's what keeps this law from happening. And therefore no sports alliance can, whatever its name is, this law has nobody's picture of any manager, a picture of any sports alliance, a picture of any sports club he exists that all managers would do their job in accordance with the law, that all sports clubs would function in the best way and that all sports alliances would work according to the law. If a sports alliance has thrown out articles in its statutes that speak that it may have been those in the sports alliance who have received a criminal sentence, of course that the Sport Inspectorate will put the statute out of force by entering that alliance. It is used by the Sports Inspectorate to see if the laws of the Republic of Croatia are respected and to ensure that they are respected. Why it hasn't been done in the last six years, I don't know or care anymore. We've been writing this law for the past six months, trying to write it down to make it better, and he's in front of you today.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13596	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first word came to the esteemed, and forgive the correction of the incorrect quote. Ante Kulusic called.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13597	Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, it's not true that I acted as an individual. In my debate, I said that it did not turn out to be me defending anyone but I just said that according to your media performances it turns out that this is a fight for you as a minister against one individual of the club, and yet I wonder why you did not wait until autumn to complete this law and why didn't you as a ministry enforce the existing law because you could sanction all those who did something bad in Croatian sport? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13598	Thank you. So now we're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13599	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Ministers with an associate, Your Honor. So here we are today discussing topics that they recognized long ago, ancient Greeks and old Latina. And the old Latins recognized the importance of sport when they said "Men sana and corpore sano" or "Healthy spirit is in a healthy body". And the importance of sports is quite said, so I wouldn't have owed it, but let me look back at some of the parts that I consider important. First of all, apart from professional sports, I would particularly like to highlight recreational sports and school or university sports. The recreational sport is ladies and gentlemen extremely important in the age when we live mostly in a seating life, at a time when children and young people are increasingly in indoor spaces, in front of computers, so when they don't move until about ten, fifteen, twenty years ago and they should be encouraged to do their sport. This should be encouraged, of course, through school institutions, university institutions, but they should be encouraged and made habits or raised to play sports even after schooling. This is extremely important in this age when we face an epidemic of obesity and a series of other diseases associated with the seating life, so above all orthopaedic disorders and the like. The Minister of Health also said that each kuna was invested in the prevention of 4 saved kunas for later treatment. I believe that promoting sports is also one of the essential preventions of or the promotion of health in the Republic of Croatia. Of course there's a professional sport. I am very glad that this law says that sport is an activity of the special state interest of the Republic of Croatia. I think there's an argument to that. What did the sport do for Croatia? what many other institutions and elements couldn't. So I'll just remind you when you say somewhere in the world anywhere in the world the words Fire, Schuker, Ivanišević, Kostelic, Cowboys it's a special recognition of Croatia in the world because our athletes have achieved exceptional successes and thus not only have they given special recognition to our sport but have served as an excellent media exhibit of Croatia. And that is why I think I can responsibly argue that you will all agree with me that they have done more marketing for Croatia than all Croatian tourist community campaigns combined. I am particularly pleased that the Croatian academic sports alliance is equal to the Croatian School Sports Union precisely because I believe that sports was recreationally semi-professional in any form should be encouraged throughout schooling. So as long as the student is located in the institutions of the Republic of Croatia that have an educational but educational character. Sports inspection is something that I have experienced as not an institution whose sole goal and intention to punish but as an institution that helps me, gives advice, suggests but also protects the rights of athletes because athletes especially those professional have guaranteed rights as well as all other workers who are in a working relationship. Unfortunately, we've witnessed in recent years that if we're talking about the most important side thing in the world, so football, some football clubs haven't paid their players their salary. Here's what the minister said, so they're the same people who are in a working relationship, who live off their work, that's in this case doing sports, and that's how they were denied the basic right, which is to be paid for their work. What I would also like to emphasise, and what is partly regulated by this law, is the introduction of professional staff into sport, especially in working with young people, so not only in club sport but also in recreational sport. I am very glad that solutions have also been found here, but I believe that once we have adopted a national strategy for sports development, then we will have some more concrete solutions. I would place a particular emphasis on and suggest to the ministry that we don't forget the fit, means which can be our top athletes, so after what the media called going to sports retirement. They can still be active sports persons in terms of working with young people. Of course, they need certain expertise, certain education, but I believe that they too have the will to do so, and that the state should only legally allow them to carry their skills and experiences on to young generations in order to continue to deliver top sports results. For these reasons, this law has my support and I will certainly vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13600	Thank you. I'd like to inform you that at 16.50, it's time to apply for a ten-minute hearing. This individual debate is now continuing with the exhibition of the respected Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13601	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister. Listening to this debate, a man gets the impression that sports or sports as some new ones say, don't tang a lot of people. However, it is hundreds of thousands of people who are tied through active sports, and that is why I do not understand why this law is passed by emergency procedure. For reasons, and I will try to elaborate in my debate, so if you think and help Mr. Minister, as... an excellent athlete and sports worker. I think there are some things that simply, given your announcements, you've had to answer these questions in this law because if you don't answer these questions, unfortunately, you won't be able to do many things. First of all, in this law, you haven't drawn a clear line of professionalism and amateurism. It is only when you draw a clear line of professionalism, which is amateurism that we can talk further about funding and sports inspection and managers and about a million other things that you have announced and where I would even say something like that is mentioned in this law. And does Croatia have the possibility of a more important professional sport, given the economic situation and what is in the world everywhere. Shall we go to football, which Croatian football club has the opportunity to have a budget of 10, 15 million euros that have the worst teams in the Champions League to play. Or, say, basketball, if you want to play the Champions League, you have some intention of entering between 16, our budget must be at least 3-4 million euros. It's something you can't do without. Handballs. So look, colleagues and colleagues, we can talk about sports today in one way or another, but in those war and difficult years it was the athletes who carried the name of Croatia, the athletes were the ones who warned that there was a small country in the Balkans where there was a war in which children, women who were killed, and athletes from that small country were Olympic winners, athletes from that small country are equally engaged with the dream team, athletes of the country are European football champions in the handball, athletes of that country are Olympic winners, and it is Croatian sport, true and true. And if Mr. Minister, that's how we set ourselves up for sports, we'll easily eradicate these other things. ... a series of legal provisions that have been passed and for which probably your colleagues in the ministry, if they are sorry, but I don't think they have, haven't warned, starting with the provisions of the Income Tax Act which clearly define how payments are treated and look at a little bit let your colleague Linic give you the tax cards of some sports clubs and you'll see that their tax payments are substantial. So you will see that some stories are not exactly what they are and God forbid it is as much as possible in this country of transfer of Luke Modric and others because this transfer that Luka will now have is unfortunately bypassing Croatian financial flows, it will take place somewhere in Europe and the tax will be paid there. And let's not look at such transfers negatively. But, Mr. Minister, I believe that this law, and in the wake of what you've been saying, has no name or last name, you have to clearly define what management agencies are, which are managers, and when you clearly define them, other laws are laying down. You don't need to take care of them as a sports minister, take care of them, and the tax collectors and the rest, and you know exactly what their incomes and expenses are, as well as all other companies, as he has deposited money to deal with, I don't know what someone invested the money with to be a sports manager. And we simply have to look at it that way, neither single out this one nor that one, simply put it in the legal frameworks and have it followed by all the inspections. Or my colleague Baranovic was talking about sports financing, and I think it's a key thing, Mr. Minister, and perhaps you've paid too little attention to her in this law. You've mentioned here in this law that they're sports communities, now they're called sports associations communities. So this is what according to the law, which, according to public needs, is financed from the budget of the units of local self-government and these are not small funds. And these communities of sports associations and sports associations, let's say you have the Sports Federation of the City of Zagreb, are very much dealing with big money, and you clearly define the rules of the game for them. Are those funds they get for funding youth schools or are they funding I'm talking about third, four league clubs of some deserved players who hunt... their sports days. This must be clearly defined by this law. Why, and I'll talk about it later when I get to the inspection. When you define it all by this law and therefore I think it should not have gone into an emergency procedure, it should have gone to a wide public debate precisely because of its importance because look, OI will be held called all my sport or sport.... But the only way to correct the irregularities is to make a good law and maybe sometimes it's better to bring it in two, three months later than to rush with it and not do a good thing. And look, you're also a former athlete and a sports worker, and you know well that people who work in clubs are truly the biggest beggars in the world to ask for a kuna, five or ten to get a sports club to buy uniforms, so that these players, starting from those youngest pioneers to seniors, can do their competitive cycle. And that's true. And those people didn't get rich, so make sure. Because they just don't have any. Those clubs are always down, they can't get rich. But those who do a job in sports, that's business for me. It clearly needs awareness of how they can get a license, and then when they get a license, they need to be controlled by the taxpayers and everyone else. And it can't if someone, if one player gets a BMW or something, drives it. You have to know exactly who he got it from. And that BMW manager has a basic asset in his firm. He knows exactly how to use the tax. And that's what you should say here. And no one should be called here anyway. You'll have to draw the line and say tomorrow is done one way or another. So that's about sports. And counterpart Baranovic touched something else, and here I fully agree with him and all those who worked in local self-government units know that this is a burning problem. But no one has solved it, and we can now move on to this law that we discussed this morning, which is because school principals are gods that no one can talk about. It can't happen that no sports hall any recreationals enter 11 hours ago. That hall has to be reserved for school sports clubs. After that, for sports clubs in the city that compete in this area, and only after that are recreationals. 'Cause look, it's not pleasant for any parent when you have to pick up your kid at half 12, 12 to get his training done and that kid's supposed to go to school tomorrow. There's no way he'll be rested. And unfortunately you don't have it here, you don't have it defined here. Because school sport is a Nucleus sport. There's mass. The quality is derived from this, and this quality is practically led to representations through the party process through competitors. And that's what we have to define. Without that definition, we can call ourselves as long as we want. However, look at your colleagues and colleagues. We can talk about the Croatian Football Federation whatever we want and I have no intention of defending anyone here. However, look it is a Croatian export product. We have been among the 10 strongest countries in the world for 12 years and it is definitely a Croatian brand. All our representatives, starting with those of France in '98. So you see, look at some side shows and you'll see that they mention some of our teammates who played in the former state as geniuses. And why is that? Because Europe appreciates it, the world appreciates it, and unfortunately we express our value. And that's what we just can't let. And we must not allow Mr. Ministers to have those top athletes who have dealt with sports that have not been profitable, who couldn't make millions of contracts have the opportunity to get a pension to live on. Unfortunately, many of them have not graduated from school and have no education. Many today too are on the sidelines of society, and we must take care of it when we talk about the Law on Sports. But we're talking about sports as something positive, something good. If there are incriminating actions, let them deal with them as with all those who deal with incriminating actions in this society. You know who's supposed to take care of them. We need to see sports as something positive and something good. Without it, colleagues and colleagues, very difficult things will be done and I have very little time left for a sports inspection. Mr. Minister, the law is overruled and that's the biggest problem. Finance should be controlled by state audit, budget control, actually tax administration. Let them control the finances. You with this sports inspectorate should define that you control exactly what I taxed, although there is much more to be done or not implemented in reality. And if it were such a law and we had a wide discussion about it, and we used to talk about it at sports games and with our colleague Scansy as a long-time basketball friend, we talked about it, and I don't think this law should simply be seen as, if I can have two more sentences, please not as a fight against something but the creation of a quality platform for the development of sport, for the development of young people. Because, Mr. Minister, the strongest fight against drugs is sports and quality sports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13602	Thank you. Replication has been reported, a respected representative of Ante Kulušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13603	Mr. Vice President, my colleague Shucker absolutely agrees with your debate. Here is a clear blow to what Mr. Skansi said to the Croatian sports feather, which is Croatian football. And all that is wrong with Croatian football should be eradicated. That's not the man in Croatia who's not up for it. However, I will return to those pensions, so-called. The pensions of the athletes that were removed from this law. They were not meant for football players, because they unfortunately won neither Olympic nor world gold medals but those athletes whose lifetime as I said in the debate is very short. And what my colleague Baranovic was saying about these little athletes who spend and their money to get to some success. It's a pity they've had that pension lifted. And regarding the school sports halls it is a tragedy today that Croatia would make an analysis tomorrow... There are definitely 70% of sports halls where recreationals play, pay for a pinkie in the principal's hall, not the principal's office, but that school, and it's certainly a lot and kids go to training at 12 o'clock with bags, watch when they're run over by a car if their parents can't bring them home. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, once again, it would be good if you could withdraw this decision that the law goes by emergency procedure, goes into two readings, so that by autumn all that is not good, and there are good things, all that is not good to correct until autumn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13604	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative, Ruža Tomasic, applied for the word. As she does not lose the right to discuss this item on the agenda, so the word gets a respected representative of Sunchana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13605	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. So what the athletes say is that there is actually no clear strategy of sport and that this is actually not going to get rid of anything crucial, and what we most often say or what we are proud of is the fact that their successes are all of us, they make us proud, they are the promoters of Croatia in the world we have heard this from colleagues today. We rejoice with them. We weep with them. They're our athletes. And it's not just the top ones. What is the importance of involvement in sports activities? Do you know how much an addict's treatment costs? 40 to 50,000 euros. We can ask ourselves, would there be fewer addicts if they had, for example, children from the earliest age of more opportunity to be involved in sports activities, sports clubs, and that money was directed at what we call sports? Mostly children are if they are not engaged in anything left to school if they are lucky enough to go to such school and they can learn or sit next to a computer and do nothing in the supplemental program. So they're on their own. In a whole series of unpopular measures or laws that the ruling majority have passed here, we thought that maybe something would happen with the law, the law that the athletes wanted, and that something would contribute to the importance of sports on the real one, and now we see that it would only be at the declarative level. This was therefore a mere promise and returning to those amounting to 40 to 50 thousand euros would not be so much needed by what was promised to them, primarily those top athletes, 108, who are going to the Olympics, who will defend Croatia's colors against almost 11 or 11 thousand athletes from around the world. Therefore, I must remind myself that the career of each athlete is mostly short compared to the life span, that a small number of them are active with active sports of top athletes, a small number of them are actively involved in the system of further education. And since 1992, I will only remind myself of the first Croatian flag performance at the winter and summer Olympic Games, our athletes won 27 medals, and if we add those from the world championships, we are talking about 50 athletes to whom we would still have to pay attention as a country. Of course she must also be financially expressive. That's obviously not gonna happen. There are examples in our area, and here are the athletes who told me that, for example, in Serbia after '35. the years of these categories of athletes receive 1200 euros per month, and despite all the promises we haven't, or you haven't found a solution to this problem. The importance of attaching itself to sports also tells the fact that, out of the promise to strengthen the right segment of sport in the ministry, allow on the pages of that same ministry there is absolutely no information, there is no such thing as the registration of athletes, but only a section in which there is nothing, which is empty, there is no data on how many athletes are involved in the system of education, etc. You're welcome to check, I am. Which means that sport is an activity of special interest to the Republic of Croatia when it's mostly so it's rare to see sports through the prism of football players and those who thanks to their talent, and so if someone wants to pay for it, they earn serious money. But not all of them or not all of them will be Kranjcar or Blue. What about those 100,000 kids who are involved in the activities of the Croatian Sports Union? What kind of message is being sent to them? Yeah, you play sports, be successful, we'll all applaud you when you're at the top of your career, but when your career's at the end of the day, you'll have to do it on your own. You've confirmed that by not making a regulation, you've already said something about it, so I won't repeat myself. It would be good if, in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Sports, the regulation was adopted which would allow athletes and athletes to obtain compensation, which would only include those of weaker property status. There are not so many of them, and that regulation would help them, or their status would be resolved. From the big upheavals that are announced we are offering a formulation of the professional status of sports clubs. If I am well directed, and you will correct me if that is not the case, behold, there is only one such thing in Croatia. So, football club Hajduk. Here's what we're seeing, obviously it's going to happen with KK Zadar, but then, for now, we only have one professional club. And what does the definition of a professional athlete mean? That's what they're asking themselves. It has been said that the associations are a thorn in the eye, but I don't see anything going to get rid of this. So something needed to change, and so far it was necessary to monitor the work of the associations, so there are all legal mechanisms. I think it would be good then and you said here the ministers so then this whim won't mean that everyone who has this name or uses this name has to change, so I think it should write it right somewhere because, of course, sports clubs are wondering if we should change it now and what it means from the coat of arms, from the memoranda, from the card at the very end of the case. If that is not necessary, it should be equally clear, or written. The promoter did not bring it, so he made no valid argument for a change of name and once again, although I doubt it, I call for it to be considered whether this is really necessary. I also believe that it would be necessary to separate sport from the current ministry and enable it to function on its own, because only through a separate Sports Administration could sport breathe full of lungs with all problems that are not small and could be dealt with more adequately and perhaps more professionally. Because we're going from extreme to extreme. We're talking about the land of knowledge that we're reducing money to, that's what we said on the previous agenda, and then we want to do a little bit of sports, so we're all just dealing with football together, and because we all end up envying those who have a thing for those who don't. So, I ask you to clearly distinguish it and it would be good to say, the athletes themselves say, that they have in the ministry a person with whom they will talk exclusively about sport, and not that it will monthly set out half an hour or an hour or when there is some big competition to deal with sports. And the rest of the time, you should be dealing with some other problems. What comes from circles of people who want to continue to play sports in one way or another is a proposal and I'm bringing it here to you to consider making it easier for all those who want to invest in sport. Small sports, sports at local levels you know well that they have no budget or money to finance it. They're pretty much on what you've got, you know, someone you know, can you get some sponsorship? Give us the van, will you lend us the van we have to play the game and that's our reality. So that's the reality of our base from which we ultimately want to draw these top names that we're all proud of. And in the end about the inspectors, please explain the same thing. It is said here that the Sport Inspectorate is organized in a way that first-degree inspection tasks are carried out by sports inspectors, senior sports inspectors in the offices of the state administration in the counties, or in the City Office of the City of Zagreb, and in the second-degree state sports inspectors, etc. What does that mean? We're gonna have a major sports inspector? Does that mean we'll have sports inspectors in the county, cities? Who are these people? What are their qualifications, so I'd like you to make it clear what this is really about? Winners like athletes in life think I will and I can. I don't know if you wanted to, but obviously you couldn't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13606	Thank you. You will receive a replicated representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13607	And he wanted it, and it's a lot, and it bothers a lot of people. Although your colleagues can agree with you and we all agree that more sports especially among young people, but we also do not forget about older people, which is the rule in Western Europe, so it means less drugs, less deviating behavior, and sport is the best medicine. Unfortunately, I would say how much funds are going and from local self-government units towards citizens' associations, sports associations of citizens, which include over 90% of people who do so starting at the earliest age, they get anywhere or 10% of the local self-government units. and our biggest troubles have started since that citizens' Syntagma, and behind that citizen association there are professional clubs. Well, you see, citizens' association and they earn, they're professional clubs. So, in that very name, there was something that brought great value not to sport but to those honorable people but to many sports clubs and debts and debts spoken of by Mr. Minister and many irregularities that caused great doubt. Of course, I believe it will clear up, but it needs to be a legal basis that will make it possible. That's why exactly the greatest value is to define which is the professional status of sports clubs. I think it's a clean bill. Therefore, there is no difficulty, and the difficulty is from seeing things so far that have been hidden behind the very association of citizens. And I'm going to tell you something else since I see you have a second to say one city of Zadar, a big city, 5th city in Croatia has 5 high schools today without a sports hall but there are sea-skies and water-skies that are...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13608	Thank you. The replica corresponds to the respected representative of the Sun's Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13609	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You haven't heard or listened, but you're criticizing your minister. That's exactly what I said. The associations have so far been a thorn in their second sentence, but you have offered nothing to change it. So I'm glad you noticed, I said the same thing. As for the local budget I will tell you my local budget so Međimurje County town of Čakovec or Međimurje County as a county. We've got a top athlete, we've got an Olympic, so at 68 wars, he's getting paid for something that actually belongs to him. Well, don't ask him to. That's what we said categorization athletes, first category. There are some of them in Croatia, so I tried 388 athletes in the first category. What are we talking about? They can be counted exactly on the pages of the Croatian Olympic Committee, they are these people. First category athletes 388. And if we're talking about local budgets then let's be honest as it's not unique for sports in the town of Čakovec, so there's zero kuna for culture as well. If you really want a comparison of Zadar, let's go back to the continent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13610	The individual debate will now be presented by distinguished representative Shimo Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13611	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister. Here are the two points I answer for but I will make every effort to shorten my debate because my colleagues and colleagues and individually and in club debates have given the essence of what was to be said about these two bill proposals so that I will minimise my debate as much as possible. The first thing I meant to say and this is a local community and now it has been mentioned here, let no offense be made to the mayors and mayors who are here in this honorable House, and set aside significant funds for their associations in their territory on their own territory in their own city in their county. However, it is for me to conclude that the majority of municipalities are not doing it enough, and that is why these associations on their ground fell on a beggar stick. I am not for the law to regulate so much and so much of the original budget to be allocated to associations but to adopt a regulation and to use the funds not only football clubs but other associations in the area covered by that municipality and that city. I'd like to say something about the younger cadet competitions, the junior cadet at national level. And these children have to pass a qualification cycle to come to the European, worldly, Olympic competition in those categories. And they have qualifications as a national selection. And their departure, stay, accommodation, transportation are covered by national alliances. I don't think that's right. If the national selection, regardless of what type of sport it was, cannot be taken care of by the national union, it must worry about the state budget, and these people from these alliances are going around public undertakings, writing applications and asking for funding for younger categories, but at national level. The national leagues in Croatia, the first and the second are national leagues and I think football is the third, if I'm not mistaken, the famous dear friends of the quoting you who work in clubs. So I don't know how much one basketball club in the second league has to pay for the registration, how much it has to pay for judges, how much for delegates, controllers, officials, etc. It is a large amount of funds for that association which can barely come to an end, can barely provide a tea team for a trip, and there if you travel far must also provide accommodation. You can't travel the same day in the first league and play the game that same day. We need to find a more permanent solution in order to pay for the registration into alliances, and then to worry about paying judges, delegates, officials, etc. It's also said here, and I'll repeat, we need dear friends, we need Mr. Secretary of that craftsman, a small, medium-sized entrepreneur, an economist who wants to co-finance sports, we need to relieve him more permanently so that when he signs a sponsorship contract, that at the end of the year, he'll end up filing a tax application to make it easier on his own because he invested those assets in that sports association no matter what level it was. And something very important, under regular number five, and maybe even under regular number one, I should have said it, which is the health care of athletes. With us in Croatia, I do not know exactly Zagreb that, Osijek, if they have adequate sports hospitals, all help where athletes would not only be professional, go to the reviews because we are witnesses and who would be permanently concerned about their health in the immediate process, in breaks and everything else, when they are not in the competition cycle because we are witnessing a little bit that athletes are suffering and even death victims on the ground, on the sports field itself. The frames, the sports frames, something very important. I'm not up for the variant of a full-time athlete working with our kids, with our athletes if he hasn't graduated from an adequate sports school, sports education, and if he's a former athlete, he'll be able to finish that sports school at the Faculty of Physics and Culture. at the Faculty of Kinesiology and other institutions that teach sports personnel and, of course, those athletes, by the end of their careers, should have, in my opinion, a pedagogical and psychological training so that they can work mainly with our children, whether at school, whether at a club that is less important to me. School sport, that's very important. My colleagues and colleagues, the professors of physical and health culture in schools, in most cases, have a standard, and if there is no norm, he can have it in two schools, and the rights of employment are maintained in one school. And now we're talking about what happens after class. Can these people who work in sports clubs also work at a school outside of teaching activities with those kids. It's good to work, it's good to have kids, but we're back to what I just said, they have to be educated to work with those kids. The parents won't give their children to anyone who does this, who doesn't know how to treat him, who's gonna stand in the center of the playground, hang a whistle, and come on, kids, run circles. That's not it. And when it comes to sports recreation, of course, we must make sure that as many of our citizens as possible, our colleagues are involved in sports recreation. And here's under regular number seven very briefly, sports inspection. I won't be much longer than I realized when I read this material I realized that part of the work, the first part, the first control over the legality of the work of the harmonised statute, the Rules of Procedure, who represents the association, will be performed by the employees of the state administration's office on the ground, and in the second degree will act as senior sports inspector and chief sports inspector. I am pleased to introduce order, and I think I commend this Law on Sports Inspection once again to introduce order, and they are not those sports inspectors who are going to go to clubs and control their financial situation from entry to exit, to whom it has been paid, to whom these contracts, contracts, contracts, they, of course, have said that this must be done by professional people from the tax administration, and if something is suspicious from the rest of the state's bodies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13612	Thank you. We have five replicas reported to this exhibit of yours. First respected representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13613	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, I'm going to replicate my colleague, Djurdjevic, but I'd like you to pay very close attention to this. If I've ever gotten along completely, and I don't think we've ever had the exact same opinions, I think you've hit a very important topic. You were talking about the burdens of these little sports clubs in our villages. In our villages, life that is so destitute, devastated, life revolves around a few things. One of these things is sports clubs, others are voluntary fire companies, cultural and artistic societies, schools and churches. Local self-government units have no money because of the situation in which they are to finance sports clubs more significantly, but what is almost incomprehensible is that and what little money they get that huge, burden of crisis we all have to bear, but judges and delegates who come, as if Croatia is in expansion, as if every day we're getting better, their tariffs, their fees are so much that all the money that football clubs get, other clubs, I'm not just talking about football, they have to be given to judges and delegates because the game just won't be held, they'll lose it without a fight. And I think that, I'm glad that you're sitting here right now, if there's something that can be done on that plan, let's all together not let the judicial organizations be told by the dericoces, the gourmets of our people who are amateurally engaged in sports, that way our youth better gather there than go to the inn. All the burden of financing these clubs, they don't have for uniforms, they've turned, they have to beg to get balls, to get swimsuits, to get uniforms, and the burden of doing such an important activity has fallen on parents. So here, in that sense, also welcoming this bill, I would like you to try to find a solution to this problem in some other step.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13614	The next replica is the distinguished representative of Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13615	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague here is just that on the trail of what counterpart Buric was now saying is about smaller environments and smaller municipalities in which there are even two clubs on a regular basis. It's mostly football clubs because it's smaller places. Rarely when it's a handball club because of the gym and all that. True, there's a small-foot club in my community, so we have three clubs. The truth is, sport has gotten more expensive. I would not agree with my colleague Buric that the judges are the main culprits who take the money, because watch out for me, however, that sport must rise to a certain level. You can't come to the meadow and now push the boys' ball, come on play. There must be judges, there must be delegates. The truth is, it's costing more and more. But I don't think I'd agree with you if the local self-government units were to single out a little bit. They allocate those significant funds because the budgets are very thin. Maybe one of the solutions was that proposal before. Perhaps the minister could think about it if sports bookies or other taxes were introduced so that they could be financed, but directly then it means this competition in the county football leagues because it is certainly the best fight against addiction. These young people, let's say in these clubs, you have three categories on a regular basis. They're pioneers, juniors and seniors. They're mostly young people whose form of sport, mass sports amateurs' main thing is to get away from these monsters. Here's the only thing I wanted to replicate in that. So it's not exactly so that these local self-government units don't allocate enough resources. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13616	Followed by Sasa Djujic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13617	Dear colleague, here's my replica will be on the same track, and as my colleague Buric said and my colleague, Žagar, I agree with you in a large part of your presentation and on the problems you pointed out. I think we can all agree on all this together. I just want to point out that my colleague Buric I'm still an active football judge, and I've been judging for 12 years, so I'd like to point that out to the 3 and 4 leagues. I don't usually talk when I speak anywhere in the environments that I don't live in, so don't realize this line of mine even applies to Slavonia or to the rest of Croatia because our country is rich and different. I'll tell you about my end. So here's the league I'm judging it's the fourth Croatian football league west that includes Istria, Primorje-goranska and Ličko-Senj County where clubs are really impoverished and where they find it difficult. But in our team, the fourth Croatian football league took part in semi-professional football. Well, here's what I have to say, 'cause there's something about us, and it might be terrible to hear what's going on in Slavonia. But we have clubs where players play for 4,5,000 kuna a month. There are clubs that pay the coaches 7,000 kuna a month. There are clubs that bring players from abroad, from neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina, pay for their accommodation, pay for their food and pay for their work. That's a lot more than a court fee, for example. But that's why by introducing a sports inspection, I think it's one of the first steps towards solving these problems, and I think that at national level, certain standards of conduct should be prescribed. Not that in the coast that it is, let's say richer than Slavonia spends a million kuna on a fourth league club for sports season, and in Slavonia perhaps 10 clubs would live on it. So I think this is the first step towards solving these problems. And I think that's the intensity and direction we all need to go together. Here's just so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13618	Here's a replica of Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13619	Here's where my fellow football judge stopped. And indeed the only ones who have survived this lately, the honor of individuals. I'm talking amateur sports. I'm not talking about professional sports. I'm not just talking about football, I'm talking about football, I'm talking about small and big sports. All other units of local self-government that are claimed to be further impoverished by the mini tax reform. And they're the only ones who invest in sports. I'm afraid a new tax inspection when you give the player that 800, 700 kuna food if you have to go to the deed contract then it'll be far, far more than that 700 kuna, because you'll have to give 700 kuna to the state. So it won't save the sport. On the other hand, we have one illogical thing. For example, the City of Zagreb probably stands out for sport more than all cities and municipalities in all of Slavonia. The city of Đakovo allocates almost 10% of its budget for sport but these are extremely small funds compared to these funds, which sets out for example Zagreb. On the other hand, you have the fact that most, almost 90% of world champions, Olympic winners do not come from Zagreb, come from smaller backgrounds. And obviously we will have to go very quickly to one systematic sports settlement in Croatia not only through the way of funding but also through creating conditions. And one future law should be passed. So, not just from schools, not just from recreation, but from that amateur we're going to have to create conditions like Western European countries, where in a certain way quantity comes to quality regardless of whether they're big cities or small cities. And as for only one sentence...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13620	Come on, the rules apply to everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13621	Here, I'll finish. As for judges, delegates, etc. Well, for example, we had a case in Đakova game Đakovo and Croatia. The judge comes from Varazdin, Zagreb, Čakovec. The cost of that game is 12 and a half thousand kuna. There'll be 1,000 viewers per 10 kuna, you'll be lost.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13622	And the last replica of the distinguished MPs, Ruza Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13623	Thank you very much. I agree with you colleagues that we should certainly introduce order in sport, because I am the president of the football club Jadran from Smokvica on the island of Korčula. We've got about 1,300 residents somewhere. You can know how little we can get out of the community for that club. And that most of us sponsor it ourselves out of our own pockets. And then when you have judges and delegates who come from Dubrovnik or from Metkovic to the island of Korčula and we pay them out of our pockets it's a little hard to believe that the law allows something like that especially us who help, who don't have children in that sport but help because we want the children off the street to move to those playgrounds. And I hope that the minister will introduce order as far as it goes and maybe in some way that we're paying the ministry in some way annually, so when the ministry pays he'll be very worried or at least look to worry that that money doesn't go to someone who comes in from Dubrovnik or Metkovic or don't give God a little bit, that's just because he makes money. So they're not working on our kids being in sports, not on the street, they're working on filling their own pockets in favor of these kids. And also, health checks. If we have 20 players then imagine how much we have to pay. I'm repeating the community's money is gone again, and we're paying for it out of our own pockets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13624	I thank you and thank my fellow Djurdjevic who did not respond to these replicas that were actually mini debates. And here comes a serious big debate of ten minutes by the distinguished representative of Anne Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13625	Thank you very much. I hope this wasn't ironic but frankly, so I hope to meet your expectations, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I will continue on this discussion, that is, the previous replica. So we heard today that here are 108 of our athletes going to the Olympics. All the expressions I use in my speech apply to both sexes, and I'm going to say that as well as in the introductions of the law. So, 108 athletes and athletes if you want to go to the Olympics from a conditionally said small Croatia. This morning I heard that 509 athletes and athletes left the United States. Of course we will follow these results, be proud of them as we are proud of all the top results that are truly brilliant Croatian results compared to how much land we are and how many we are. We also enjoy the successes of our professional athletes, but here's all these successes wouldn't be if there weren't those broad bases from which they are recruited. And the meaning of every concern, state concerns and concerns of local units in relation to sport certainly must not and should not be primarily those high sports results, mainly not professional sport but above all to allow for, first of all, every child, every minor citizen, but also every citizen's availability of sports whenever he wants to. And that's why Mr. Minister, I think this is a really important law. You are here somewhere, in an explanation it is written that this bill lays down sport activities as activities of particular interest for the Republic of Croatia, however, nothing has changed, and so it was in the current law only in another paragraph of Article 1. Therefore, sports activities have been identified as activities of interest to the Republic of Croatia. And indeed the state and units of local self-government must pay special attention to this topic. There were mentions of school sports companies here. I am sorry that this law goes in a shortened procedure because the debate would actually show which problems, i.e. what are the areas in which the implementation of the existing law did not work enough, although the legislative framework existed, and then perhaps, until the second reading, it could go further into the broader changes of the existing law precisely on the grounds that they might be lacking why this law was not applied as it should have been applied and that the legal text was corrected. First of all, I'm going back here to the school sports society. In this second, I read from the reasoning of the second law that the system of sports in the Republic of Croatia has 16 thousand sports associations, national sports alliances 38, 32 national sports associations of neo-Olympic sports, etc., etc. But I don't see the data, and I'd like to know how many school sports companies are in the Republic of Croatia. Because I think it is extremely, extremely important for each school to establish its own school sports society and that, above all, this society is dedicated to working with children. What this law, as well as all decisions of the units of local self-government, should ultimately achieve is that every child in this country can be a sport without being a financial obstacle. Mr Baranovic said from Sibenik he provided information that Sibenik is issuing 20 million kunas for sport. I assure you that it sets aside large funds and state and other cities and municipalities, it's only a matter of which and what control it is of these funds, so it's public money when it leaves the budget. There is a legislative framework and could be monitored and monitored through budgets both local and national where and how this money ends. In practice, we are in spite of many rules that exist to witnesses that, for example, children because there are no extra-school sports activities are enrolled in clubs, which are some clubs that are organised as associations, but in which they are engaged in sports in these associations therefore pay and that even worse, and such cases have been and there is certain that they must pay for the use of the gym of their own school in which they went to school in the morning. So these situations are inadmissible and it has to solve this law. Furthermore, what is also good in this law, which is that Article 12 has been amended where it has spread essentially has not been unambiguously changed in the most fortunate way. Therefore, it was necessary to simply amend, or supplement the definition of manager in sport, and then define him as the person who is authorised to transfer and cross the athletes to supplement this definition and that these are then persons who invest in athletes, i.e. coaches and subject to the same restrictions as they apply throughout the text to managers. I would like to warn of another provision, which is Article 7 amending Article 13, which is a restriction for people who cannot participate in sports competitions, organise, conduct sports competitions and carry out professional activities in sport etc., etc. This provision is amended the second time since the basic law was adopted in 2006. The 2011 law regulated those provisions, but then it was prevented that these tasks would not be dealt with by a person who was legally sentenced to a prison sentence of 3 years or more. I don't think it's a bad idea for this suspended prison sentence to be an obstacle to sports activities, but I'm warning the ministers of this very ungrably formulation. Therefore, a person legally sentenced to a prison sentence of up to at least 6 months for any of the offences committed with intent and not subject to a conditional sentence cannot participate, etc. So it should simply be said that a person legally sentenced to unconditional imprisonment for over 6 months if that is the limit. This provision of intent was, and in the former law, I think it's not good, which means that every time you enter a verdict and read the whole sentence to see whether you eat a table with intent or not. The intention, failure or other qualitatively easy or difficult circumstances on which they are subject shall be taken into account when giving the judgment. The judgment itself, which is a certain weight in itself, implies a stop or a intent. So I don't think that's the place here in this law. And I'm warning you something else, and that's a more important warning. Paragraph 3 has thus far been suspended by a person against whom a criminal offence has been committed for those serious offences for which a certain penalty has been prevented. But now you have a provision that will be suspended until the court's final decision is reached. The person against whom a criminal offence has been committed for the damage of a child or minor. I warn that there are a number of serious crimes that may affect the child’s child -bearing relationship, or persons with whom that person comes into contact, and which are not explicit crimes committed to the child’s harm. So I can talk here about very serious drug crimes, therefore illicit drug trafficking, serious criminal acts of general crime, serious property crimes, etc. for which, if such a procedure is conducted against a person, they would deserve a suspension to avoid being in contact with children in this educational sense. And in the end, what a colleague of the SDP was saying and I agree, I just don't agree with the qualification that this law has been achieved. This should be done but this law did not achieve it and should clearly distinguish professional sport from amateur sport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13626	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Two replicas have been reported for your presentation. The first is the esteemed Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13627	So I'm going to continue here where my colleague stopped at this difference of professional and amateur sports, so I'm not going to mention fair trial fees, wetlands in HNS, bars, crocodiles in the bar, chira's statements, etc., etc. but first of all, I appeal to the Ministry to take the next step that will allow for the creation of conditions for sports to really be played by everyone. And it's not just sports through the school sports alliances. Every club regardless of whether it's football, handball, volleyball, etc. There are also those younger adult categories of those beginners in football is R that far greater number of children, is football at the end of the line the most important side thing in the world but should not be seen all through football. So my appeal to the ministry to make the next step a system of financing sport or through a definitely fiscal decentralisation that will allow local self-government not to get crumbs of all these tax revenues, is that all local self-government units including Zagreb now have 4% of the total tax revenues. But it's another possibility that appears through these so-called so-called. games of chance. And that's an open question. Sports bookies in every city in every guesthouse practically have those two, three machines with those games. Who's controlling it? How does he control it? There's a huge addiction of young people, and even these older age games of such happiness, but I don't see any income being left to the sport. So the problem is neither Dinamo, nor Hajduk are some institutions dealing with it, the problem is just sport and the very foundation and the creation of conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13628	Thank you, too. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13629	Well, fellow Vinkovic, this is how we have all the good laws for those sports bookies, and for that control, it's all in the law. But what's our problem obviously that continues is that the laws are weak or in no way implemented. Here's what we've had so far, the Sport Act that said who was overseeing law enforcement, so it was a legal provision. It's been said to be a sports inspection. We don't need this new law on sports inspection. The question is whether it was necessary as a special law at all, he could fit into this one but that's irrelevant. All that was worked out by that law we could have implemented so far under the existing law. I wish we had this legal text that was written like this and that this surveillance was actually done. But that great cry in public was not the subject of the supervision of this law of sports inspection, it was the subject of supervision of those institutions that could work without a problem so far with the existing legislative framework. And that sour apple or whatever you want, which I know is not an easy bite, it's a distinction of professional and amateur sports simply because it's very hard to expect that professional sport in the frames of the size of Croatia and the power of financial and citizens and the state could really be maintained as professionally as our athletes view it according to one Madriga, Bayern or I don't know which big club in the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13630	Thank you very much. And the next replica is the respected representative Josip Boris. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13631	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, I'll just have a few thoughts. I agree completely with Mrs. Lovrin what she said, but also our other representatives from the HDZ Club. Certain shortcomings in this law have been identified. The most important is the one Mr. Schucker speaks of, meaning the undefined relationship between professional and amateur sports that will leave room for everyone to do what they think, even though these articles of the law that we have here. Otherwise, in our home here, in this House, every law presents itself as a miraculous remedy that will solve all problems immediately. He will not solve anything because the innovation of the Croatian man has always been high so that it will remain. If we thought we solved the managers like this in a direct way, they'd find space to solve it indirectly. You can't, but my friend can, etc. This is something that will go on and on, and the main and main problem has always been financing not only sports, here we have heard today and schooling, education entirely and until it is fully arranged in this segment of society it will simply not be a order. I truly admire the mayors, mayors, and their way of making use of the resources in general to enable many young and pioneering, juniors, seniors, to even engage in sports within all our financial laws. Now all I care about is asking the minister two questions. You said that you could both s and s, and sport and sport, so I ask why and then we even change this name of the Sport Act if it can be both, and it stays one and the other, and then we change, which is why, is that a whim, is that a desire to leave a mark. And that article in 63, you wrote that you are now taking on consent for European championships, for OI, for possible Mediterranean games. You're left with the Universals, they're gone. We had the University of Zagreb in '87. years...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13632	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13633	Who will give consent to a new wish for the University here in Zagreb. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13634	Thank you very much. And the final word of the respected Minister of Science, Education and Sports, Mr. Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13635	... I've heard a lot of quality suggestions. [[Specially enabled.]] None of them essentially challenged the text of the law you got. What I feel with a single dose of actually mourning, I must honestly say, I have an impression and it will probably be a long time before it changes, that always in this case the opposition from the HDZ ranks would be the happiest that any law proposed by the minister on this side will not be successful, so the ministers will not be successful. Almost senses a desire in every proposal that we present to show that it will not be possible to implement in practice and that so far everything has been great. If everything was great then I'd actually be the luckiest one if I'd come to an orderly ministry, sat there and watched a little bit of the rules that had been passed over the past eight years because everything was great, everything worked out and nothing needed. No laws should be passed, no new regulations should be passed, what has been passed should be implemented. But dear colleagues and colleagues, that's not so. In the system of education, science, sports is a mess. We have to fix this mess together, we have to do it together because each of you has a child, a granddaughter, a nephew, a son who deals with sports and who goes to school. I'm really saying that on my side of my co-workers at the ministry we're not doing anything because of the political point, we're doing this because of kids who do sports, because of kids who go to school. And the law that we've proposed, the Law of Sports Inspection has been passed because in the last six years it hasn't been passed, so the minister didn't have any tools to carry out surveillance because by law he couldn't do it. The law says it's necessary to carry out that surveillance, but it's not said. It was either to pass a law in which it would be introduced through an article given by the representative, the esteemed Lovrin, so it could have been resolved through the Sport Act but we are seeking to point out the importance of the inspection passed by the Law on Sport Inspection, we propose a law on sports inspection. And in this law everything is actually said, you can see here and what is a professional club and what is a professional athlete and how supervision will be carried out, so sports inspection, first degree sports inspectors, senior sports inspectors in the offices of the state administration in the county or City Office of Zagreb. So all the jobs, MP Djurdjevic, all the jobs, and the second degree then state sports inspectors, senior state sports inspector and chief sports inspector. But to prevent any abuse at that first degree, the second stage has the opportunity to go on its own to carry out the first degree, and in this way our law is actually a preventive law that, by its very existence, tries to send a message respecting the law, act in accordance with the law, so that sport can be freed from wicked people, dishonest actions that unfortunately have too much. School sports clubs are a priority of this ministry, and you can tell by the way it works. And this year we have increased the funding for school sport, for projects sport against violence, for projects to teach children to start swimming, so all of these preventive projects despite the problems of closing the budget have increased. That is why we further point to student sports through these legal changes. I don't know if you know that there's no gym class at all at all. So there's no gym class, what kind of message is that, is that a message for healthy society? Thus, by strengthening the Croatian Academy Sports Federation, we send a message of support to the Croatian Academy Sports Alliance to ensure the teaching and sports leagues at the university. At first I said, so my wish was and in this I failed to have a brand-new Sport Law, but a brand-new Sport Law cannot be passed until we have a national strategy for developing sports in which a key strategy is to finance sports. And I said, in a public competition, that job was won by the Economic Institute. We are waiting for his results to be very eager, on the basis of their proposals then again in a broad public debate we come to what is the best model of sports financing in Croatia where I said the introduction base of the largest children's incentive to play sports, to finance the state, and as this base narrows down to the top where professional sport comes from, it goes beyond the obligation of club administrations that have to financially provide funds for their professional drives. And that's why we went in this way to pass this law, to establish a sports inspection so that we can do quality work, to prevent disorder, to edit the situation, and when we bring the strategies that I've been talking about, we'll have the opportunity to bring together new legal solutions, all in order to ensure as wide a base as possible from which the top athletes will come, and the categorization of sports is something inevitable. We can't finance all the sports, we need to agree on what sports can be financed from the state budget. How can that be determined? Simply according to the base where there are the most young people involved in sports, where we are the most successful, which is the tradition of Croatian sport and these can be state priorities. If there are any sports specific to some environment, then more will be invested in them in that environment. So these are some ideas. We have a fully developed model so that the bookies can provide additional 111 million kuna to improve sports in Croatia, but we are waiting in the study Strategy of Sport Financing which will then allow us to reach the best quality solutions. So, I'll use one of your old phrases. This law is just one framework. There's no picture in that frame yet. I hope that this picture will be a picture that will represent when it comes to Croatia's sport in the world in a way that we can be proud.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13636	Thank you very much. We have two applications to correct the incorrect allegations. The first one's an honorary representative of Anna Lovrin's, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13637	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Minister, it's not true, I'm correcting your claim that we want you ministers to be unsuccessful. I speak for myself. I want you to be very successful for the sake of Croatian citizens and that Croatian citizens do not spend 4 years without any of your successes. So, precisely because we want you to be successful, to fix the situation in sport, to allow every child to do sports whenever he wants, and if parents didn't have to pay dearly for it, we wanted this law to go in two readings and that some of our suggestions in order to be more successful for you, you might do well. We'd be trying to help. And we would also like Minister Cacic to have been successful and successful, so that today on 13 or 12.7 he is already the entire investment cycle that was promised until June 1st to be successfully rotated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13638	Since you have good wishes, and you haven't corrected, we won't criticize you for it. That's good. Good wishes always come in handy. The next correction to the incorrect quote of the respected representative Branko Bačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13639	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So my correction at the end and my colleague Lovrin. In fact, it is not true that the opposition wants to fail and to display ineffective all those laws and all the positions it is already true that the position or ministers hold that exactly what they are proposing is correct and correct, because that is not the case, then Mr. Minister, and the government would send most of its proposals to the normal procedure in two readings and listen to the opinions of the opposition rather than practically through the urgent adoption of the law, show that it does not respect what the opposition proposes. It does not come to the same, because from these discussions, Mr. MP, from the debates of the opposition and other MPs could find quality proposals to improve the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13640	Thank you very much. Looks like the MPs are bored, so let's talk a little bit, we'll stop for a while. Okay. No, let's go work on the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, the debate on the text of the law amending and supplementing the Law on Sports, P.Z. No. 133th and Proposal for a Law on Sports Inspection, P.Z. 132 is over. We will vote on both one proposal and another when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13641	We move on to the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Sports, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 133, the debate is over. The bench is divided into a review of the amendments. I ask the government's representative, Minister of Science, Education and Sports Zeljko Jovanovic to declare the amendments submitted. Amendment No 1 of the HNS Representatives Club to Article 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13642	Amendment 1 to Article 9 shall not be accepted for the reason why this article refers to a professional club and the conditions for a club to be considered professional, while the amendment promotes a regulation of the conditions for obtaining professional status of athletes, which is the matter of an article which has not been amended by this draft law. In addition, reading the norm like this results in establishing the status of a professional sports club, i.e. If the club were no longer amateurally enough and only one contract, i.e. giving the player an amount exceeding twice the average salary of the Republic of Croatia which would certainly not be good and in some way indirectly would lead to the collapse of amateur sport as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13643	The applicant of the amendment. Is there anyone on behalf of the HNS Club who wants to show up or are we going to vote? Dear Jose Radosh, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13644	We're withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13645	The amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment 2 of the Club of Representatives of the HNS to Article 9.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13646	Amendment 2 to Article 9 is also not accepted, given that there are very different sports in the system of sport with very different and very large deviations, not only between clubs but between different sports in terms of income, so we do not believe that the amount that would be the limit of professionalism and amateurism can be determined in this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13647	Proposer of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13648	We're withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13649	The amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment 3 to the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13650	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13651	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment No 4 of the Legislative Committee to Article 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13652	We also accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13653	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 5 of the SDP Representatives Club to Article 17.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13654	Amendment 5 The SDP Club on the article is accepted in a modified form so that it now reads: general and special medical skills are determined by an authorised doctor, i.e. a specialist in sports medicine, a specialist in medicine and sports, or doctors of other specialities who have completed postgraduate studies in medical work and sports. The list of authorised doctors shall be established by the ministry responsible for health affairs, with the agreement of the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13655	Proposer. Who in the name of...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13656	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13657	So the amendment was accepted in a changed form. Amendment 6 of Jadranka Kosor to Article 17.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13658	Representative Kosor's amendment has already been consummated by a previously accepted amendment and is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13659	Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13660	Well, it wasn't fully accepted, Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Secretary, because here in the amendment accepted by the SDP's Club of Representatives continues to require, that is to say, how much I understood, although it did not write so, and the consent of the Minister of Sports. And my opinion is that these consents should not be, so only the Minister of Health can decide. Well then of course I'm looking for that part, I'm pleased that here's a part of my amendment accepted, but for that part I'm also asking for a vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13661	Who is for the amendment of the representative of Jadranka Kosor that the government does not accept? Who's in? He didn't get the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. Thank you, Minister. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Score. I find that most of the votes, 97 votes in favour, 36 against and 1 abstention, have been amended by the Sport Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13724	And now, please, let's do one more item on the agenda. This is - HBOR Annual Financial Report 2011 Report submitted by the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development under Article 22. Law on the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Material, so you've received reports into the boxes. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered its opinion. The debate on the report was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Economy. You received reports from those working bodies at the session. Does the rapporteur want to give an introductory explanation? Yeah. Dear Antoine Kovac, president of HBOR. Here you go, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13725	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. I will try to be brief because I know that the time has passed and here I will only say the basic things that are related to the business of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development in 2011 and a brief review of these first 6 months of this year. Therefore, the revision of the non-consolidated and consolidated annual financial reports of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development and of the HBOR Group for 2011 was carried out by Deloitte, and their opinion was that the financial reports objectively presented the financial position as well as the result of the business and cash flow in 2011. So, we received an audit report without any comment. This financial report has been confirmed by the Supervisory Board and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. HKO therefore which is part of the group or together with the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development makes the HBOR Group established in 2010 and it participates in the total balance sheet only with 0.2% active parent society so I will practically all these financial indicators that are very little different, i.e. tell the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. So at the end of the reporting period, the balance sheet amount was 22 billion and 900 million kuna. It decreased by 4% compared to the previous year as a result of a 300m-euro bond payment. The capital was 7 billion and 300 million kuna, an increase of 4%. Credit activity, hence the appropriations in 2011 amounted to around 6 billion and 600 million kuna and were approved in 1534 projects, which is significantly more than the previous year. The structure was 30% for the large economy. Export and tourism 44%, infrastructure 6% and small and medium entrepreneurship 20%. The guarantees were issued in the amount of about 36 million kuna, mostly as export bank guarantees. The mandates were a billion and 800 million kunas, and 172 individual approvals. For the most part, the mandated transactions were insurance of exports from the political and commercial risks of 552 approvals, exporting to 693 buyers in 54 countries was secured and 17 compensations were paid. The total activity in 2011, therefore both credit and mandate and guarantee operations amounted to 8 billion and 400 million kuna. I must mention that since the '92 draft. By the end of 2011, the total HBOR activity was 100 billion and 600 million kuna. So we crossed that magic number of 100 billion total activity from the draft. The total revenues of HBOR amounted to 954 million, total expenditures of 806 million and profits were shown at 148 million kuna. So we're not like business banks based on profits, but all these years we've had minimal profits. In fact, you will also see in the 2011 follow-up report, but also in 2012 we reduced the interest rates so that this profit is not too large, or that we give up in favour of Croatian businessmen. We have had extremely good cooperation with international financial institutions, especially with the European Investment Bank, the Council of Europe Central Bank, the World Bank and KFW, the German Bank for Reconstruction, and thanks to good cooperation, the HBOR has achieved favourable funds all these years of the crisis and, therefore, we have been able to give favourable funds to Croatian entrepreneurs. We were particularly active in lending pre-accession funds and agricultural component in SAPARD, i.e. today in IPARD about 70% of HBOR funds were financed. I already noted that 6 billion and 600 million kuna loans were granted, which is about the same level as in 2010 in much more projects, about 30% more individual loans than in the previous year. But it's interesting that there was a change in the structure of lending in 2011. In fact, there was an increase in investment funds to 58%, and it decreased by trade funds, and that's a good sign. We hope there will be positive shifts in this current year. An increase in approval has been recorded in particular in environmental protection projects, tourism, especially investment loans in the economic programme. So also the investment of large companies. There was an increase in the number of loans granted by around 50% for small and medium-sized enterprises. The most important activities in all credit programmes were food production, mesatrerading industry, tourism and wood processing industry, therefore the heavy industry. Which we also consider to be positive for the State Development Bank. The new IPARD measures 101, 103, 302 and 301 were introduced, then model A plus, prepares agricultural seasons for all farmers, so wartimers and cattlemen and orchards and olive groves and vineyards, then liquidity programme, special program for women entrepreneurs. The second stage of the credit line for water supply and disposal projects in co-operation with KFW and we have re-launched the restructuring programme that we have suspended in the previous period because of the crisis. A new programme has been introduced to ensure the conclusion and execution of the export business of accounting banking guarantees. This is particularly interesting for Croatian builders because given the lack of work on the domestic market, their only exit is according to exports. The existing programmes have been changed, we have increased the share of loans in investments that can be covered from HBOR funds from 50 to 75%, and I would say the most risky programmes, so for beginners and inventors, this share has been increased to 85% because we want to simply encourage as much employment as possible, especially young people, but also to encourage inventors and innovators because without new products or promotions of existing products there will be no significant economic growth or increase in exports. Then, we cut interest on the preparation and export program from the lowest 5% to 4%, we cut the interest rate in the A plus programme from 3.8 to 2.8%, and we increased according to the program of permanent crafts and started from year to year and the payment deadline from 5 to 6 years. The purpose of other credit programmes has also been expanded and cooperation with economic co-operation funds has been continued. I will now very briefly do what we have done most significantly in the first 6 months of 2012. What is best for entrepreneurs is that we reduced the interest rate in all investment loans, for agriculture, tourism, industry, environmental protection, renewable energy sources and energy efficiency by 1%. What I'm referring to, so we gave up our profits for the benefit of entrepreneurs and for the benefit of starting an investment cycle without which there is no exit from the crisis. We've made it possible since this year to borrow in kunas in all programs. So, in all our investment programmes, entrepreneurs can choose for investments whether a clean kuna loan or a kuna loan with a foreign exchange clause, so if they are already exporters then it makes sense to introduce or seek a foreign exchange clause. For all others who have mostly kuna income, they take the usual pure kuna loans. Then, we introduced new production lending programmes, IPA 3C, IPA, the economic development lending programme that was created in the cooperation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the CNB, the HBOR and the business banks, and in this programme we provide 50% of the total funding of 3 billion and 400 million at an interest rate of 1.8%. They say it is the lowest interest rate ever imposed on the Croatian market for the economy. We've introduced another way of dividing the risk. So, by taking risks from business banks, we want to encourage business banks to invest, i.e. to approve as many credits as possible for investments especially in the economy sector. We are implementing this programme within all our credit programmes for small and medium-sized enterprises and for a large economy. For small and medium-sized enterprises, we take 40% of the risk the business bank is 60%, but what's important is that for those 40% of the risk, we take nothing but bonds and debtors as insurance. So we have made it possible for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to be sufficient to pawn the hall or equipment, the machines they acquire or build out of credit because they can only ensure that what they receive from the loan is given to the business bank and HBOR and does not place their mortgage or stock on it. For large loans we take the risk 50% so we share the risk equally with the business bank and we hope that this will allow as many investment loans as possible in this year but also in the next period. In the first 5 months of 2012, a total of three billion kuna loans were granted and I have to say for the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises 840 million kunas were granted, 2.5 times more than in the previous year 2010. Here's to the fact that time's too late, I'm not gonna owe the vice president. Dear MPs and MPs if there is any further explanation and if there are questions, we are at your disposal for me and your colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13726	Thank you very much to President Antun Kovacev. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? I don't think so. I'm opening a debate. We're going to the club debates, the first SDP club and the respected representative Nadica Jelas. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13727	The Honorable Vice President, the Honorable President of the HBOR Board, the Honorable MPs and MPs. HBOR was founded in 1992 by a special law like the Croatian Credit Bank for Reconstruction. In 1995, she was named today and was given a development component along with the renovation. It is hard to actually say whether the bank had more importance in those 1990s when it was rebuilding Croatia with war or today 20 years after it restored Croatia devastated by an economic and financial crisis and inequity. However, it is certain that in both cases, in 20 years of business, HBOR proved to be a strong and reliable foundation for economic operators primarily by adapting its business policy to the needs of the economy. In those 20 years HBOR has approved a loan that is in the form of guarantees over 100 billion kuna. With almost half of this amount being granted to exporters. So almost every other kuna of HBORs ended in exports, which clearly confirmed HBOR as a successful export bank that provided Croatian exporters with conditions for equal competition in the demanding international market. It is also difficult to imagine how our exporters would go out to the world market without financial support from HRBOR. And in the current time of the financial and economic crisis, exports are the priority area of HBOR's support for Croatian businessmen, in all phases of the export cycle from preparation and production to export insurance for export operations and the issuance of legal banking guarantees. In 2011, HBOR granted 1534 loans to Croatian entrepreneurs totalling 6.6 billion kuna. Of that amount for export financing, 2.9 billion kuna or 44% of the total value of all the credit granted was granted. Although most of the funds were targeted in 2011 for the financing of crafts assets in order to overcome liquidity, it is possible to assess the doubling of the funds granted for investments, therefore, for long-term investments. In 2010 401 loans totalling €1.4 billion were granted for investments while in 2011 661 loans amounting to € 2.8 billion were granted for the same purpose. It is commendable that HBOR continuously introduces new lending programmes, and five new programmes were introduced in 2011 from the programme of crediting the preparation of agricultural production, via IPARD for measures 101 and 103 of the liquidity programme, the women's entrepreneurship lending programme to the A+ and B+ credit scheme. One of the HBOR's priority objectives in the past year was to ensure the availability of credit to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in view of the fact that these categories of entrepreneurs, especially when they are the few most difficult ones to get to the capital needed for business growth. In this respect, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs were made available 23 credit programmes which could be realised either directly through HBOR or through business banks. Under all these credit programmes, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs were granted 1331 loans in 2011 totalling 3.6 billion kuna, which is 15% higher compared to 2010. The important fact to point out is that the HBOR continuously adapts the lending conditions to facilitate their business to economic operators. He certainly did so during 2011 through the reduction of interest rates, through the extension of repayment deadlines and the extension of beginnings. All of this was quite detailedly spoken by Mr. Kovac. All of this worked with HBOR by getting credits on favourable terms, thanks primarily to its reputation and excellent co-operation with international financial institutions. So with the IBRD, the CEB, the EIB and the KVB, there was no practical need for commercial borrowing. Finally, the good reputation of the HBOR also testifies to the fact that his first man is the president of the European Association of Public Banks. The HBOR therefore provides favourable credit conditions, however, there are no other conditions under which the HBOR credit is granted. e.g. the length of time of credit approval or the amount of documentation required. In fact, there are those who are dissatisfied with the amount of time and the amount of paper needed to borrow credit, and there are those who are unhappy because their credit claim has been rejected. It is true that HBOR has imposed high standards in the process of granting credit, and that is certainly good because part of Croatian entrepreneurs will pass by just as their school is easier to adapt to almost European conditions. Finally, the HBOR can ask its clients for nothing less than what it must do to financial institutions from which it provides financial resources, and in order to continue to maintain a high reputation and to continue to receive cheaper funding thanks to this very high reputation, and which ultimately goes to the benefit of HBOR's end-users. In the end, he may have done some HBOR entrepreneurs a favor by not granting them credit because he had, and the applicant did not fully meet all the necessary conditions quickly, so that he could not repay the loan and would actually come into even greater business difficulties. As for the time needed to grant the loan, it is largely dependent on how long the request is processed in a specific business bank. And finally a few more words about HBOR's business performance in 2011. We heard the financial result is positive, although this is not the objective of HBOR's business, so HBOR was not established to gain profits. A profit of 148 million kuna has been made, and according to the provisions of the HBOR Act, profits are fully allocated to reserves. The profit realised stemmed from a positive relationship between interest income and interest costs. In fact, interest revenues remained at the level of the results in 2010, while at the same time interest costs were reduced because the HBOR manages to secure loans from cheaper sources. The interest revenues remained unchanged because the HBOR as a development financial institution and holder of the economic recovery measures of the Republic of Croatia does not increase interest rates on approved loans for several years in a row. Leading such a policy of non-increased interest rates, HBOR renounces the share of profits and thus helps economic operators to get to cheaper capital and cope easier with the crisis. The HBOR therefore has a positive business, primarily by obtaining credits under favourable conditions from financial institutions. In this regard, the question arises whether the fact that Moodys in May has reduced HBOR rating from stable to negative for long-term foreign currency borrowing, or whether and how expensive it will affect the amount of interest at which HBOR will in future obtain and then of course place those financial resources. Namely, the logic of the rating agency is that the rating of HBOR is being raised or reduced in 100% of the property of the Croatian state depending on the rise or reduction of the rating of Croatia, which is unlikely to be quite correct, since it is evident that the rating of HBOR is higher than that of the state. And it is clear that further downsizing of both the state and the HBOR would have a negative impact on the conditions under which the HBOR would be able to borrow, and then of course approve the loans. And to conclude, the current government, the current coalition government recognised HBOR as one of the key institutions for reviving the Croatian economy and therefore it is necessary to strengthen HBOR's core capital, so that the HBOR could take on itself even greater credit risks. During 2011, the state budget paid into the founding capital of HBOR the new 180 million kuna so that now the total capital paid from the Croatian budget is almost 5 billion kuna or to be quite precise 4.9 billion kuna. Since the 2006 HBOR law lays the core capital of HBOR at the level of 7 billion kuna, it is obvious that the government remains obliged to pay just over 2 billion kuna to the full amount and thus ensure that the HBOR is a fundamental assumption that it is an even stronger engine for the development of the Croatian economy. The SDP Club supports the 2011 HBOR Report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13728	Thank you, too, Your Honor. The next is the HNS club and respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13729	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. President of the Board, colleagues and colleagues. So, this previous presentation by my colleague Jelash can freely say that we, on behalf of the HNS Club, can also sign and I will then look back at one other segment, it is more about the government's influence on the work of HBOR, on that instrument that is HBOR developmental for the Government of the Republic of Croatia, for the Parliament, and especially for the economy. This report has shown itself through both the President of the Administration and the previous presentation of the differences shown in the 2010 figures, 2011 figures, which are reflected essentially in the situation in the economy, in the state and manner in which the previous Government essentially worked and used, better said unused HBOR as a development agency and that segment that is extremely important, which is that this Government has already shown in 6 months how it is done. So when we talk about 16% higher incomes last year compared to interest, this government immediately recognized and set off with the Supervisory Board where the finance minister is the chairman of the Supervisory Board and, of course, the administration's implementation, to reduce the 1% point annually for new investments in agriculture, fisheries, tourism, industry, energy efficiency, environmental protection, renewable energy sources. Interests on this issue in tourism and programmes have been reduced by 1%, so they are at 1.3% or 5%. So for the development of the island, small and medium entrepreneurship, inventions are also 1 to 3%. So this is what HBOR is the development bank of Croatia, when we talk about Croatian banks then definitely HBOR is the bank that will remain as the main instrument and the main development bank of the Republic of Croatia and especially what has been included in this segment of the HBOR which will further boost 4% of the interest, starting with 15 years of repayment, starting with up to 3 years, so using those instruments that, with the growth of profitability, are 16% since last year's interest, means cheaper sources. On the other hand, move them not to go into profit but to use to stimulate the economy which is crucial, because HBOR is a development investment bank which is always absolutely necessary to emphasize. It has been shown to be part of a report that speaks of AA+ models that were realised in the last year mostly indifference. So, the funds went into indivisibility, in solving the indivisibility of the economic operators that used it, but only shows what the economic situation, which is the situation and how it was essentially not resolved by then, and this way and model that goes with the business banks, with 50% essentially covering and guaranteeing from HBOR, i.e. from the state and 50% of business banks where three, three and a half percent interest is provided this year, depending on the auctioning towards economic operators, let's say, this and recovery and development and liquidity and exports is something that this government is trying to further help, in any case using HBOR as one of the instruments. What is partly mentioned and said in the opening statement of the President of the Administration and what I would like to highlight on behalf of the HNS Club, which is essentially HBOR's role in the establishment of Economic Cooperation Funds. So, this is another additional instrument not only of the HBOR but of the government of the Republic of Croatia in which we expect that much stronger, much more intensely on this issue HBOR will participate in the name of the Republic of Croatia and enter the economic operators that have the chance, have the opportunity, have the opportunity to develop, and should be given the opportunity to give me the hand to get out of the crisis, come out of the indifference and the problems that have arisen up to the present period. So far, FGS’ investments, i.e. the Economic Cooperation Funds, have been totalling some 199 million kunas. It is expected that the HBOR on this issue will be much, much more along with private investors 50:50% in the FGS also act in terms of economic development as well as through all these credit lines which are already sentences where interest rates are indeed brought down to one level that is acceptable to each economic operator. Finally a few words in the report that is technical and substantively good. It could also have a little more analysis regarding loans, simply looking at which loans are indeed new loans from new users, i.e. businessmen, which are essentially prolonged. Because then we would get one maybe a little cleaner situation of these new credit ratios, prolonged loans just for analysis and further consideration which the economy is essentially in even bigger problems at the moment. Also one opinion, a suggestion on loans financed and used by export economies. This is mainly short-term loans where the HBOR essentially takes a full guarantee from the business banks so that the HBOR does not happen, although it has the guarantee to be complete from the business banks, is embezzling potentially in terms of credit assessment and part of its risk, i.e. the risk premium, which could potentially increase the interest rate and the cost of the shareholders, given that it is a guarantee from a business bank rather than from the entity. We do not believe that an additional risk should be assessed because absolutely all resources have been used. What is often said about the interest of business banks, and it is likely to be a topic that we will discuss always trying, of course, to keep them as low as possible towards the population, especially the economy. We can say that in the projects that used 301 local self-government it especially for infrastructure. The commercial banks were exceptionally through practice using these funds by the HBOR and even happened to have gone down in some situations. So they even went more favorably because they were trying to place as best as possible. Therefore, the possibility of paying and reducing interest is still possible on the Croatian financial market and, say, went to this segment of local self-government there well had good conditions and provided much better conditions than the business banks could provide with their sources, and with HBOR's funds essentially competed and local self-government of course benefited the most from it. So, on behalf of the HNS Club, of course, I support this report and I stress that we are, of course, pleased that both the audit and the internal and external opinions on the way and the work of the administration and the report are complete. And that it is good that in fact the HBOR that works as well as the bank with all reservations that they are extremely low unlike other banks which shows that it has worked quality even though the influence of politics is both important and necessary in the HBOR as an instrument of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13730	Thank you, Your Honor. The next is the HDSSB club and respected representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13731	Here's Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. President of the HBOR Board, MPs and MPs. I'm going to try to be brief at this remote moment. Therefore, the HBOR mission itself is the long-term lending of investments in the Croatian economy to simplify this both in exports and in development and in current business. HBOR apparently, given its longevity and stable business, has found one quality niche on that banking market and has closed it well and is holding it well. It is also obvious that the HBOR is leading relatively which is not unusual but is relatively common for the banking sector to run a conservative policy. I think it's listed in the report somewhere. This conservative policy is viewed on the one hand by the fact that it is really not easy to get credit in HBOR. Sometimes it's easier to get it in one of the business banks than in HBOR. Of course, on the other hand, such conservative policy preserves the substance of the bank. On the third hand, there is, of course, a job of its own. But on the fourth hand, whether there really is, whether the HBOR is accomplishing its mission. So, in a situation where production falls, when exports fall, when employment falls, and the whole economy stagnates, did HBOR succeed? Of course HBOR is not the only leverage of state policy in the economy, but in some ways it participates in this economic policy and can we talk about the success of HBOR's business with all the negative trends of the Croatian economy? That HBOR has managed to preserve its substrate, HBOR holds itself, but does the HBOR succeed in its mission? Here's the answer, of course, is going to be different from what side of the assembly we're sitting on. As far as the report itself is concerned, I would mention one thing that has not been mentioned by the predecessors, this is the rise of HBOR operating costs by 95 million in the past year, the increase in HBOR employees. So the increase in operating costs for 95 million is not exactly a small item that the bank rarely allowed itself in 2011 that this State Bank is. In total, however, we cannot speak negatively about the result of the business but the fact is that without the HBOR, everything would be worse than it is, but it is difficult to assess what the positive effect of the HBOR on this stagnation of the Croatian economy is at all and how much greater it would be if the activities of the HBOR did not exist at all and that it was left to the business banks. Whether or not we can only calculate how much that would be. We will support this report, the work of the HBOR pleases, does not delight, but satisfies. Just a little bit further on the report itself. So the report is I dare say no offense to anyone relatively modest. It has 40 and some pages, on the other 120 pages is the audit firm's report on financial business. The table views of this cake that we find here that some are cut into 20 and some slices are not exactly a way of presenting which today is more particularly current as a presentation model, so it could certainly be done to make these presentation models much more scientific and much more quality. Here at the end I say we support the report but we may also call on the HBOR to preserve certainly that substance it has, but also to be in some measures and more proactive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13732	Thank you, Your Honor. So we've exhausted the list of representatives' clubs to discuss this topic. We're moving on to an individual debate of deputies for 10 minutes. He is the first respected representative of Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13733	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. President-in-Office of the HBOR Board, dear colleagues and colleagues. Certainly, I will support the 2011 HBOR Report just as the President of the Board said in his opening section. From this report, I will concentrate on several important things, but firstly I would single out the data that the president of the administration gave in his opening speech, stressing that in 2011, the amount of investment appropriations was doubled, which were mostly used by small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, in a way that 401 credits were granted to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs totalling €1 billion and €400 million in 2010, and in last 2011, 661 credits amounting to 2 billion and 800 million kuna were granted in 2010. So the exact double, or double, is the amount. This data, in my opinion, points to the general and social economic environment in which they worked, has been done by small and medium-sized entrepreneurs because the fact that the environment at the time of the crisis and recession has prompted small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to say at the time of the crisis and recession is still decided on new investments in their economic operators. This may in some ways be contrary to the exposure of fellow Gjurkovic, who says that the gross assets in model A and model B introduced last year to the HBOR-enhancing system according to which the resources were designed to improve liquidity to speak in a certain way and the fact that, in such a crisis and recession year, investments were nevertheless doubled in the section relating to small and medium-sized enterprises. I would like to commend Mr. President of HBOR's new HBOR programme on lending to the development of the economy and on the loans aimed at entrepreneurs in difficulty and for which you planned to provide around 8 billion kuna this year for this new programme. This is certainly a welcome measure for the fallen Croatian economy. However, it would be better, in my view, that the conditions of availability of these funds are in a certain way less rigorous, i.e. that they are also available to entrepreneurs who do not have to make at least 10% of their income on the international market. If we know that the vast majority of Croatian entrepreneurs are precisely those who cannot make at least 10% of the income on the interstate market, then it would be good for the programme to really adapt to the real situation in the Croatian economy and that not a small amount of 8 billion kuna is available to those entrepreneurs who are indeed private, but who do not make 10% of their total income on the international market. Such entrepreneurs are just in tourism, but also in other economic activities very much, so it would be good if they were also users of this not-a small financial cake, but in 2012. In your report, this is indeed one of the objectives of the bank is, in fact, one of the main objectives of the bank, which is to promote systematic sustainable and even economic and social development by priority areas. One of these priority areas is, however, the latest in your report itself, the financing of environmental protection projects, energy efficiency and renewable energy sources. Why would I bring that up? I mention this because the Government of the Republic of Croatia, i.e. the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, together with the Energy sector's Energy Monitoring Centre, announced a programme for energy reconstruction of public sector buildings in 2012 and 2013, which aims to increase the energy efficiency of public buildings in the Republic of Croatia. This programme, which has been announced and plans to increase the energy recovery of public buildings in Croatia, is well-designed somewhere around 2 billion kunas, but I fear that this programme will receive good results because potential investors or property owners are primarily units of local self-government or companies owned by them and the authorities of the Republic of Croatia, which are clearly not financially capacitated to respond to such a programme on the one hand, and on the other hand clearly that they cannot be credit users, as this programme provides for which loans would go through HBOR or through business banks. I must say that it is surprising to know that last year the Government of the Republic of Croatia in October brought a green development programme for Croatia under this programme something similar was envisaged and this programme was called Green Construction and which programme was also planned to increase the energy efficiency of buildings in the Republic of Croatia through credit lines that would go through HBOR and business banks. But the significant difference between this programme and this programme, which last year was aimed at private-owned buildings and on the trail and model that was defined by the House Loan Subsidisation Act, which in just a few months received exceptional success. I believe that this program, which was first-row toward private entrepreneurs towards private private owners of private buildings, was possible to invest more than 2 billion kuna in so-called ". the organisation of facades in the Republic of Croatia and which programme according to our plan has provided for about 50,000 housing units in the Republic of Croatia in private ownership where loans are located and where the state would help with its resources and these funds should be ensured and significant that for the retention of illegally built buildings in a space where private owners through the HBOR through the Energy Efficiency and Environment Fund could then be realised. In this way, the HBOR would have talked about it last year, and Mr. President, when we prepared the programme, we were indeed able to employ a large number of small entrepreneurs in Croatia facilitators, roof coverings, etc. So it was possible through this programme and on the trail of what this government is now planning to really target a large part of the funds towards a specific construction sector. I must therefore say that the realisation of this programme, though this newly established Centre for the Monitoring of Energy Sector Investments in the Energy Sector, would be devoid of work, but where and where more money is directed into the construction sector, and thus the HBOR could, through business banks, clearly and through the Energy Efficiency and Environmental Protection Fund, where and where more to contribute to this increase in the energy efficiency of private buildings in the Republic of Croatia, and thus, in particular, make a clear employment of a large number of people in the building sector on the one hand and contribute to better filling of the state budget. But here's the conclusion, given that time is about to end. In any case, I support this HBOR report and I ask you if you can and if there is time for this program of yours that you have announced to include those entrepreneurs who do not realize... at least it seems to me that I have said 10% of the revenue on the international market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13734	Thank you, Your Honor. We have a statement of correction of the incorrect allegations by the respected representative Mladen Marelic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13735	I am correctly blaming my colleague Bačić, you have forgotten something. That it was a debate last year that passed the programs that the Croatian people said no. It's been rejected and I don't think it's necessary for you to be burdened tonight and here with what the citizens have said no. Let's stop with these illusions and this used to be. I think the president of the board has spoken, the programs are going, and I think that should be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13736	A colleague should be read by the Rules of Procedure, it is a replica. Thank you. Okay. Final word? Yeah. Mr. Anton Kovachev, president of the HBOR Administration. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13737	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. Here I am going to try to be really short. First of all, thank you for all these good words and reviews and suggestions. Here we will strive, as we have all previous years, to appreciate it as we listen to the businessmen, so we listen to distinguished MPs and MPs because the Croatian Parliament was founded by the HBOR and the first has the right to give criticism and assessment of our work. As far as major credit analysts are concerned, we will seek in the next report to make more of these analysts to distinguish new loans reprogrammes and all of what Mr Gjurkovic has suggested. As regards the preparation of goods for export in all credit programmes that go through business banks, no additional HBOR guarantee shall be taken. As for Mr Djurovic's debate, conservative banking policy is a conservative business. They were playing Wall Street I'd say gambling or banking ended unfortunately not just them, but the whole world in this financial-economic crisis we're in. In fact, we could not get cheap loans and then pass them on cheaply to Croatian businessmen to play with banking regulations and Croatian banking regulations and international banking regulations. So all our creditors are watching us, sending out their missions, sending out checks on our business. If we didn't stick to these banking principles, then we just couldn't get credit, let alone these favourable loans. If we're on the right track here, maybe it's a good criticism to put it in the report. So, we follow each year according to indicators where we are according to the European Union's development and export banks. We're almost by all indicators in the middle, so we're neither the most conservative nor the most liberal. So I think it's the best possible place, but it's a good point that we put it in the report, so it's objective. As far as the auditor's report is concerned, it's our report. It became an auditor’s report when the auditors accepted it without notice. So that's the report that we made, that report that says it's auditory that became audited when they accepted it. As far as the economic development programme is concerned, it is the position of the supervisory board and the administration that all the preconditions, i.e. the rules we set, we take as resiliently as possible, so we will not cause any problems for those economic operators that do not have, for example. 10% of exports or any other criterion. It is in our interest that 7 or 8 billion kuna enter the liquidity of Croatian companies in this year and that they achieve one stability so that they can create new jobs, export more and more investments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13738	Thank you, too, for your rational approach to time and debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13739	We move to a statement on the 2011 HBOR Annual Financial Report, the debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Annual HBOR Financial Report for 2011. a year." Who's in? Against? Restraint? Score. I conclude that the conclusion was accepted unanimously by 135 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13740	A little more attention, please. Let us work on two other points of short - a) Proposal for a decision on the resolution of the President of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency and (b) Proposal for a decision on the appointment of the President and member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and in accordance with Article 18(1) and Article 16(2). Law on energy regulation. You've received the motions of the acts into the boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Economy and the Committee on Selection and Designation. You received the reports at the session. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote tomorrow when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13741	I move to the Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the President of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. The debate is closed. I am voting on a motion for a solution. Who's in? ... Wait, you'll get the word, but you'll get the word. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Who's in favor? What do you want to talk about? About this? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13742	I would like to say Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I personally asked you three or four times yesterday which points of the agenda will be held at yesterday's debate and with which points end the practical session of this spring. You said we'd end up with the agenda item of the HBOR Work Report to then skip 3 or 4 points of the agenda and give this point. So no one disputed your right to suggest points that due to the timing should be voted upon and the HDZ club would not object to you there, but I think the minimum correctness was to inform us that we can discuss for the simple reason why HERA was often mentioned when it was spoken and justified about raising the price of electricity by 20% and raising the price of gas energy by 30%, so there was disputed additions, etc. and I believe that we are once manipulated as a club damaged from giving our opinion on the appointment of a board of directors and members because if you ask the chairperson what points of the agenda will be so that parliamentary representatives can plan what is practically impossible how it is done, we consider it to be the duty of the chairman to tell us. Yesterday, several times you told me and your colleagues that the last item of the agenda that we discussed yesterday was HBOR so that I would finally repeat myself and I would end up jumping 3 or 4 points of the agenda and discussing it, it was not at all discussed these points of the agenda, probably because it is very difficult to hear that Croatian citizens are actually waiting to pay 20% higher price and electricity and 30% higher price of gas. And since we didn't have a chance to discuss it yesterday, I took the opportunity to say it on behalf of the club now.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13743	Thank you very much. So the point you're talking about was the agenda point, it's on the agenda. The Chair of the sitting may discuss the agenda item included in the agenda regardless of its order. The right and obligation of MPs is to be in the Croatian Parliament, so when they are in the Croatian Parliament, they have the opportunity to discuss the points of the agenda that are being discussed. Since there is no, Mr. Shakespeare, controversy with the chairman, I gave you my word, we can now ping-pong go on forever. Excuse me, Shuker. We can discuss this forever. So I conclude that the point is discussed in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Everything in this assembly has happened in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, and what you want now, you want to explain that you haven't been to the session, so what can I do for you?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13744	I'd like to say to Mr. Trainman that... you can be the chairman, but you have no right to say that someone was not there. You said there wouldn't be that item on the agenda the moment the HBOR debate started, you said that. So don't deny what you said. So you said that the debate ends with a debate about HBOR, so you can't have any demagogue lessons that MPs have to be in Parliament. If you'd said that point would be, the MPs would be.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13745	On the agenda, all the points that are included in the agenda may be discussed, regardless of what I told you at the time, that this item will only be discussed because at the time I had no insight into what we could discuss. But all the points can be discussed which are in the agenda and you know it well, and that you weren't in the assembly I really can't do anything to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13746	How could you replace me with Mr. Shucker? (Laughter) Well, isn't there a difference?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13747	I don't know if you feel offended, but I apologize. ... /The noise in the hall./... Now let's vote on this point. So we've closed the debate. I am voting on a motion for a solution. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Score. I find that with 92 votes in, 5 against and 35 abstentions, a decision has been made. I put to the vote the proposal for a decision to appoint a president and a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. The debate is closed. I am voting on a proposal for a decision to appoint. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 85 votes in favour and 48 abstentions have been decided.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13748	Also - Proposal for a decision appointing a member of the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and in accordance with Article 9. Law on the State Commission for the Control of Public Procurement Procedures. You've received the motions for an act in boxes. The debate on this proposal was conducted by the Committee on Economy and the Committee on Selection and Designation. You received reports from those working bodies at the session. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13749	I'm looking for a break on behalf of the club for 10 minutes. (Laughter)
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13750	Okay, so I'm saying that the joke worked. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met, that's tomorrow. We've exhausted the agenda for today's session. Tomorrow we'll start work at 10:30, we'll vote on the items we've worked on, the debated agenda points, the bill's proposals, the election and appointments as usual. By tomorrow I want you to rest and the Orni to come to the Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-12-0.u13751	We move to the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the State Commission for the Control of the Public Procurement Procedure. The debate is closed. I am voting on a proposal for a decision to appoint. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 133 votes, a decision has been made.
