ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11651	We continue our colleagues and colleagues on the agenda. - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Collection, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 58 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you have received the proposal in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to the adoption of laws. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committees on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You've received reports. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11652	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Assembly is before you. In 2011, the Constitutional Court repealed the provisions of Article 1(3) and (4). The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Assembly, to remind you. And the above provisions of a peaceful gathering and public protest were not to be held 100 metres from the facilities in which the Croatian Parliament, the President of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, were located or held. And another reminder, which is that the ban also applied to groups of less than 20 people, means, regardless of not meeting the conditions for a public gathering alone, any group should not have joined Mark's square for 8 years. For the speciality and uniqueness of St. The Constitutional Court also assessed the Constitutional Court as reasonable and justified to establish the area of free judgment of the legislator in limiting certain rights relating to other public gatherings in the Republic of Croatia. This was applied both in time, and in place, and in the way of holding a public gathering including the number of participants, then the space under which it happens. Of course, all these restrictions are required to remain within the limits of proportionality and necessity. In drawing up this proposal just respecting the position of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, also the debate that was held in the first reading on both committees and the wider public debate we had as promoters remained only at those limits that are within the limit of proportionality to achieve the goal that was made in the first proposal that you had. And this is that a public gathering can be held in Mark's square, but also that the institutions of the Croatian Parliament, the Constitutional Court, the Government of the Republic of Croatia can work at the same time. In this respect, certain observations made on committees have been accepted, in particular regarding the approach or arrival of people who have difficulty in moving or persons with disabilities. In order to continue Radic's street and through the Stone provide them with access to Mark's square. On the other hand, it is defined and clear that it refers to the southern side, specifically now speaking the southern side of the church of St. Mark. This introduced a provision 20 metres from the Constitutional Court, 10 meters from the Parliament and 10 meters from the Croatian government. The time at which maintenance was scheduled, which was safe and discussed on boards, remained from 8 to 22 hours. I'll state on behalf of the promoter and the reasons we've been handling. This is primarily so as not to usurp the right, or approval for a public gathering, in the sense that someone else can be limited to not being able to easily access Mark’s market. On the other hand, the sanitary conditions determine equally that the maintenance of this space as it is makes it impossible to hold longer. And I think it's just passing a message to the addressees of the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian government just as they function and work. In other parts, as far as the number of things that have constantly caused the debate is concerned, it is a space where so many people can stand. It was not a matter of counting counters or the like, it was a space where it was precisely, because it was the organiser who, when he organized a public gathering, took the obligation to report how many participants there would be. In this way they are also directed, that if it is a gathering where more people are expected, then of course Mark’s square is not an appropriate place for such a gathering. The approaches that are secured are just allowing what I have stated, which is that the institutions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Parliament, the Constitutional Court, can function as well from the Mesnica Street, not to be closed. I would point out the most important, and that is, we have stuck to the limits that is true, it also predicts the European Declaration of Human Rights that there are reasons why public gathering can be limited. In this final proposal that is before you, I ask you not to forget the most important fact, which is that finally address the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Parliament, I will say in short the power can get a message from those who are willing to highlight their goals at a public gathering right there, after 8 years of ban. I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11653	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? Here is my colleague, Radin, on behalf of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11654	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The Committee considered this proposal to be an interested working body. The applicant’s representative pointed out, in the opening statement, that it is important to regulate the possibility of arriving at St. Mark participants who are persons with disabilities and persons with difficulty in moving to participate in a peaceful gathering, public protest, and in the direction of Stone Street. The applicant did not respect the proposals to review the provisions relating to the limitation of the number of participants, the time of holding a peaceful gathering and public protest, and the way in which public gatherings are held, with the reason that the proposed law is fully taken into account the position of the Constitutional Court in its decision of 6.7.2011, according to which assumptions for holding public gatherings near the seat of the Croatian Parliament, the Government and the former Constitutional Court, I think the former seat of the Constitutional Court may be stricter than the general assumptions that apply to the public gathering in other places in the Republic of Croatia. The debate discussed the Ombudsman's proposal for people with disabilities to allow people with disabilities and persons with difficulty in moving in peaceful gathering and public protest to access St. Mark from Mesnica Street across A.G. Matosha Street, which was agreed by most board members. After the debate was held, the Committee decided, by majority, to vote 7 for and 2 abstentions, to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Assembly with the next amendment to the text of the final draft law. In Article 1, which amends Article 11 in the new paragraph 5, the words “Storms of Stones” are deleted and the words and the streets of Mesnička across the street A. G. Matoša are added, explaining that the proposed Article 1 represents a complete solution for persons with disabilities and persons with difficulty in moving who wish to gather peacefully and publicly protest in the area of St. Mark. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11655	Thank you, too. Is there anyone else on behalf of the board? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labour Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11656	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Minister. First of all, a short history is not so old about a forbidden city that is officially called St. Mark. From the absolute freedom of gathering and protesting in Mark's square through those cages that were set up in their own time as a place of public assembly, protest but give and support to, say, government or other state authorities. If someone doesn't remember that the front part of Mark's square was allowed to gather and the protest was fenced with cages, metal fences. Then followed an absolute ban that, on the Government's proposal of Ivo Sanader here in the Parliament, caused great controversy, the exchange of arguments, and always as it is today, then the ban and today some restrictions were justified by security reasons. However, the most effective means of ban, and without law offered neither politics nor government, nor brought parliament, but archaeology. In fact, somewhere for a year and a half, the square was an archaeological dig surrounded by a metal green fence and by the nature of things due to it in St. Mark couldn't even gather. This was said by some who were well informed not of the government's initiative or then Prime Minister Ivo Sanader but of some people close to the government themselves who were experts in archaeological excavations and what they found remained a major enigma. I expected archaeological excavations to continue as a compromise solution to allow for a gathering, and that is how we forbid it. Of course, we should welcome any proposal that the government offers, which leads to this cult place of gathering of citizens who express any political, social, trade union or any other demand publicly providing support or opposition should be welcomed. However, I am always bothered by the claims that all restrictions have one single source and these are security reasons. 10 meters from the government building and the parliament and 20 meters from the Constitutional Court and limit the number to 1500 and only in time from 8 to 22 hours. How is it that no security threat is posed by groups of tourists who, without any restrictions on the number of distances from the building and the time of day, walk freely, gather, discuss and explore historical sights. Does this mean that both Croatian police and intelligence services have more trust in tourists and foreign citizens than citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia who, for example, would gather in Mark's square? And let's simulate now not to protest, because this public gathering we all immediately interpret as a protest. So I'm asking if the same restrictions would be applied if you were in St. John's Square. Mark wanted to gather 5,000 enthusiastic workers to express support to the government for going bankrupt company. Or let's say 10,000 enthusiastic citizens are gathered in support of the government's decision to sell the Croatian Post Bank. Or that the union that agrees with the abolition of collective agreements also previously agreed with the resolution minister comes to show support for such an intention at 10 o'clock in the evening and let's say 3,000. Or there is simply a spontaneous gathering of support for the expression of excitation due to an increase in electricity prices. Would that make security reasons the same if the police banned such a gathering. So I always start with those who come to Mark's square having evil intentions, that they are a potential danger to the security of state officials and state property, and we need to limit access to the building, the maintenance time, the number of participants, and now what I think is simply incomprehensible and the directions of their movements as to how they will come from, where they will come from. So it is approximately predicted that participants can only come by the promenade of Josip Juraj Strossmayer, the Stubbs of Ivan Zakmardia, Dverce Street and Kirilomethodski. Mr. Minister, can Tomic and the climber come to the Upper Town? Let's say those who are hard to climb and are not officially disabled and have no ID would come up with a climber up through Tomic's. The provisions of this law are not allowed because it does not appear in the law because we have strictly stated the direction of movement. Second question. For people with disabilities and persons with difficulty in moving, you write from Stone Street. Does this mean that a disabled person or a person with difficulty in moving is not allowed to drive a car to Mark's square, leave the car and pick it up? What is this approach so that people with disabilities are not allowed and even with special transportation intended for the transport of disabled persons should not come to the Upper City and leave the participants to the gathering, leave so that they do not stay and come for them later. You're forcing this disabled man in a wheelchair to be pushed through a stone door and before that street, I don't know the name of the Stone Door. Why is this firmness in the case of persons with disabilities and why would the car or other means of transport not be allowed for such persons? Second, what if the public meeting organizers want to go to St. Mark set up a stage, a voice and other technical conditions for the rally that will last from 8 to 22? If they're allowed in a truck, a truck, a meat van, to come to St. John's Square. Mark and unload things and drive away? Can they bring meat, fresh water, mineral water, plain water, sandwiches, garbage canisters to clear Mark's square after the rally? How will organize such a gathering if they have no access except on foot and no other way? This limitation of time is actually the result of the most efficient public gathering in St. Mark that lasted if I wasn't wrong for 33 days when the workers of the Sljemen camped in St. John's Square. Mark in tents. They achieved most of their goals and no incident was recorded for the 33 days of Sljemen's workers' camping in Mark's square. At no point was the safety of any state official threatened, the government's work, or the Parliament's work was not disrupted, and if I'm not mistaken, there was actually no more serious need for police intervention to maintain public order and peace in Mark's square. And after the interruption of the rally within two hours, everything the protesters used was removed and the brooms cleaned up St. John's Square. Mark. And now you might find it funny if you allow a gathering between 8 and 22, let's say the organizer wants to set up for the needs of the participants of that chemical toilet so that participants don't run around nearby cafes or maybe they'll use services in the government or in the Parliament. The provision of this law has made it impossible. We therefore welcome the intention of opening Mark's square as the only place in the city of Zagreb where the protest makes sense. But the restrictions that have been set will not, in practice, allow them to either act or force them to be here for a short time, restrict the possibility of continuous protesting because it must be interrupted in 22, and in technical sense, you make it impossible for the organisers to use a pay phone, a voice, delivery, refreshment, food, waste and any other technical assistance to maintain such a gathering. The Croatian Labour Club submits two amendments relating to the limitation of time and direction of movement of particularly disabled persons. No argument, no case, no example in the explanation or description of the situation in the explanation and in the introductory word of the minister was given when there was a real threat to anyone when they were protesting on Mark’s square. I don't remember such a situation for a legally reported rally. Maybe someone knows, but I really don't remember any public gathering in St. John's Square. Marka in Zagreb who brought in and was reported to be a known organizer, according to the law that he caused any incident. Uncomfortable, yes, unpleasant for members of the government and prime ministers especially when foreign delegations came and a square full of protesters, yes. We also have trouble in the House when people warn us of something, but it is our job to put up with it and talk and hear and see what they're talking about. With this law, the government proposes to protect itself and us from such inconveniences. Mr. Minister, as far as we're concerned, don't protect us, let people be here if they want to for 30 days, that in a technical sense the rally can be organised to last continuously, allow disabled people to access as easily as possible and explain to me please. I asked you that last time, and now, how are you going to determine the number of participants of a thousand 500? Tell me how you'll determine that. To throw my colleague Antičević just a brief comment. When police numbers can always be 1500, the number of participants, then together they need to negotiate and determine the organisers, not just the police. When the government counts and the police count the people and the citizens will always, culturally I'll say, go bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11657	Thank you. Next up for debate on behalf of the SDP club Gordan Sobol. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11658	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Today we are discussing the second reading of the final draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Assembly. When it was the first reading we welcomed then it seemed to me that everyone was going into two readings, thinking that this law was extremely important and that we should leave a certain period of time to try eventually and complete the proposals that were from the first reading. First of all, on behalf of the club, I would like to remind myself once again, as I did in my first reading, that this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Gathering, in fact, the provisions of the laws that have been passed for political reasons only now could we say in 2005. Politically because the party at the time in power, HDZ, on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Gathering, has actually secured peace under its windows, but on the other hand probably not, but this is how she created a certain myth from Mark's square. She created a fortress that was worth winning, the goal pursued by participants of all the protests held in Zagreb during the past seven years, mostly the eye of Ban Jelačić Square. All of them were always in their best interest to reach Mark's square and break through the fortress that HDZ then raised around the highest institutions of the Croatian state. The law on public gathering is extremely important and has one specificity in it, which is that it has to reconcile in some way two conflicting interests when it comes to public gathering near the highest state institutions. The right to a public gathering is one of the fundamental human rights guaranteed by the Constitution. This Regulation shall enter The constitution says that everyone is granted the right to a public gathering and a peaceful protest in accordance with the law. However, even then in 2005 the SDP made it clear in its discussions that it is aware and that certain security conditions must be met that must be respected around state institutions. In this case, it is the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Government, or the Constitutional Court. Therefore, conditions should be met to allow for the normal functioning of the highest state institutions. Terms that will respect the specificities of Mark's square and all those and not only of state institutions, but of all other historical, cultural, cultural buildings located on this square, historical, tourist and municipal buildings. And we believe, therefore, at the club as we said and during the first reading, that it is justified to limit the time of the protest, because if I am not mistaken, a colleague said in the debate in the first reading, the other protests do not refer to stone, bricks and buildings, but to people who work in these institutions and who carry certain state functions. In addition, in the SDP, we oppose situations that have been questionable for many reasons, starting with hygienic-sanitary reasons. Let us remember those years when between 2000 and 2003, it seems to me somewhere that it was given to me in 2001 or 2002 when it was camped here on Mark's square, when it was nighttime, when the opposition at the time was clearly abused, manipulated, and as soon as they sat in power very quickly afterwards simply abolished the possibility of ever coming into smaller or larger groups here on Mark's square, that some kind of protest note, some petition, the most ordinary flyer, was handed over. Compared to the first reading, we at the SDP club welcome this in a way that clears the situation that will arise from this second reading, which is that the protest is limited to 20 meters from the Constitutional Court, which means that exactly which side of Mark's square is foreseen for the protests. And we believe that 10 meters from the other institutions is enough space for institutions to operate uninterruptedly, but also that normally other citizens who do not participate in the protest, tourists and the like can pass around that part and that, if necessary, some intervention vehicles can also go in part. We also welcome the provisions on providing access to Mark’s disability market, which means that the legislator, the legislator, respected the remarks that were going on and I think it was a failure that was now corrected and that people with disabilities are therefore allowed from the direction of the Stone Doors, i.e. the Stone Streets coming to the protest and we at the SDP Club believe that this part is sufficient when it comes to persons with disabilities. We are also aware that, even in the debates that have started today, a series of questions that we consider not to be a question and a part of this law and that they cannot be resolved through the law in a way that will allow for refreshments, how they will be able to set up a loudspeaker, stage and so on. We assume, i.e. we are convinced that this is something that is being solved by certain rules, by sublegal acts that will stem from this law and that this is further a matter of agreement between the organisers of the protest, or the competent authority in this case of the Ministry of the Interior. So, I'm going back to the first one, welcoming as a SDP club and achieving what we said in the election campaign that we will enable the re-gathering and arrival of protesters on Mark's square we make it possible by this law, the coalition makes it possible by this law and we believe that it is to express our contribution again, I would say, to the arrival of democracy and to Mark's square. We show that we do not fear our own people as we feared those who passed a law that is still in force in 2005. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11659	Thank you. We have two corrections for your exposure. The first one came from counterpart Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11660	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, it's an incorrect quote from fellow Sobol that the opposition at the time manipulated police officers who were protesting in St. Mark. It's absolutely incorrect and these officers were illegally fired from the service, and we as members of the opposition at the time were bringing them food and bonuses so that they could contact the family were solid with them. Your manipulation in this House, as well as in front of the Croatian people, that those who were unlawfully fired eventually also received the powerful judgments of the Administrative Court and that the Croatian State paid them all interest benefits. That's true.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11661	Thank you. Next correction by counterpart Ante Kulušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11662	Mr. Vice President, the same correction because it really is, I'm not going to say ugly, but it's not nice to hear that the opposition manipulated with campers at Mark's Square. This should be repeated hundreds of times because these were the people who created the Croatian state, who from the Croatian state later in 2003 received compensation from over 3 billion kunas who were illegally fired from work and it was not any manipulation of Croatian defenders, or police officers, but it was the protection of those people who created the Croatian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11663	Thank you. Next up for debate on behalf of the HNS club Sonja König. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11664	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. This proposal of the Law on public gathering of the markets of St. Mark's reopening to our citizens. With this bill of law, the SDP, HNS, IDS and HSU coalition laws keep their promises and enables all citizens to express their dissatisfaction before our entry. Before the entry into the Croatian Parliament, before the entry into the Croatian government. And that's why the HNS club will vote for this bill because those who make decisions must hear their citizens. It is certain that no one is comfortable when you are criticized, and it is certainly difficult to meet all the demands of people of different groups or interests that publicly gather to seek the fulfillment of certain rights or claims or to seek the abolition of certain rights or claims of other citizens. It is also certain that the addresses of the Protestants do not always know the answers to all the questions asked, but those who make decisions, those who make policies, so those who are in institutions that have been banned so far must hear their citizens, answer their questions because that is what our colleagues and colleagues have to do anyway and our duty. It's our colleagues and colleagues and business. In most democratic countries, by adopting every new constitution, by adopting every new law, protection of the right to think, freedom of speech and public gathering are growing. These rights can only be limited to protect other people's freedoms and rights, legal order, public morality and health, and never for political reasons. But that's exactly what was done 7 years ago when HDZ in this place banned a peaceful gathering and a public protest in St. Marka, more specifically in a space that extends at least 100 metres from the facilities in which the Assembly, the President, the Government and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia meet. And we know that the right to a public gathering is one of the fundamental human rights guaranteed by the Constitution. Freedom of assembly and the right to express one's views through it are among the highest values and values of democratic society. The essence of democracy is its ability to solve problems through an open debate. And in true democratic states, every human member of the community is expected to participate actively in the formation of these policies. It is precisely peaceful gatherings and public protests in which political or other beliefs are expressed ways of active and consciously fulfilling the civic duty. This law allows citizens to do so, while also enabling the smooth and secure work of institutions and will therefore support the adoption of the Law on Public Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11665	Thank you. Next on behalf of the SDSS club representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11666	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. This law that we are discussing today, the Law on Public Gathering, the basis of the Constitutional Court's decision on the disputed and controversial issue of the possibility of gathering in Mark's Square, finally removes it by allowing the proposer to gather in the place between the key institutions of this state of Parliament, the Government and the Constitutional Court, and in close proximity to the City Council, those who, based on their interests, their rights, their feelings, believe that the Government and the Parliament should be informed that their work is not doing well or that they are not doing it in accordance with their expectations, their interests and their rights. And it should be said that this government, or this coalition, has thus fulfilled its promise repeatedly expressed during not only the pre-election campaign but also during the time when citizens wanted to reach Mark’s square on different occasions, but they failed because their paths to Mark’s square were hampered by a large number of police units and technical means used for that purpose. In this sense, it should be said that the government itself has decided that Mark’s market is not banned. So, to be allowed to tourists without being allowed to protest, and that's a significant change. And in this sense, the SDSS Club supports such a change, that is, such an intention and such content that this government is forming this law, this bill. The committees, including the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, discussed 2 controversial moments in the draft of this law. The first moment concerns restrictions on numbers, those that can reach Mark's square and can participate in protests. There is no doubt that Mark’s square according to physical laws, by its scope sets limits and cannot accept more than it can objectively receive. And in that sense, the question arises, Mr. Minister, whether to remain in the formulation of 1500 or to introduce another formulation that will be managed by the security and capacity elements of the market itself. To avoid doubt about who counts, and how it counts, and how it counts. The police must take care of the security of the public meeting by virtue of their legal powers. One of the elements of the security of the public meeting, that there are not too many people who, due to too many, could endanger each other's security and environmental security. And there is no doubt that the police should be given the authority to act in this regard and to assess the real capacity in this regard. Well, nothing in the strict sense of that word to you, not predicating you, but together with you and other colleagues and colleagues who are not up to a political push here from this pay phone, but to find a good solution that will not compromise this bill because it is good, anyway, and it is brave. I'm not sure there are many governments in the world that would allow protesters to gather in such a small space and in such specific conditions, I'm not sure. And because of that fact, I think it would be good to consider, Mr. Minister, that maybe this part about the number is formulating differently. As far as time restrictions are concerned, the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure itself held that this restriction may need to be lifted. Not for these reasons that have been cited frequently in the debate given previous experiences, which are now shared by MPs and MPs in the Assembly, which is a question of camping, this question, the question of that. Here's simply because of an argument that makes me feel much stronger, much more convincing, which is because of the abuse of unlimited gatherings that might happen to try to counter the gathering of those who have serious reasons to gather. And I think there's a raid, to introduce a time limit, and that time limit that the proposings suggest is from 8 to 22 hours, actually stays. It carries certain risks with it which are of a security nature when it comes to the character of the protest, if the protest is more severe, if the protest is stronger, if the protesters are more persistent. The question will be, of course, who will remove them from Mark's square? There will be a question of opening up a space for conflict between police and protesters, but it is a certain risk that I assume the police have computerized in this regard. But that risk seems to me to be less than this risk of being manipulated between different groups. Which could try to manipulate the market to prevent others from coming to the market and being kept in the market so much that they would not allow others to come and protest seriously as they planned. These are our thoughts regarding this bill. And I don't believe it, and I don't think these polemics that were led in the assembly, which were led and at certain clubs make a lot of sense when it comes to the earlier experience of the protest. And I think, once again, I'm going to say that this government proposal is brave enough, fair enough for constitutional public gathering rights and that we just need to think about whether or not some of these formulations are foreseen by law. As is the issue of the number, they should remain as formulated or can be formulated by a different expression that will not open the room for any doubt, or any interpretation that would question and dispute the legislator's intention or who tomorrow's going to implement the law. As long as you find that solution, the SDSS club won't have any reserves to support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11667	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDZ club, MP Miljan Brkic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11668	I would like to thank Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, the honourable representative of the motionary, Mr. Minister. In front of us is the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Assembly. The proposer of this law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia who naturally proposes to amend this law in the part in which the possibility of protesting in St. Mark. The Croatian Democratic Community's club considers this law as one of the laws of political character. We all know and know that the SDP submitted a request for an assessment of the constitutionality of the ban on gathering under the Law proposed in 2005 by the Government of the Republic of Croatia under the leadership of the Croatian Democratic Community, and the basis for which this decision of the Constitutional Court was taken. We consider the law political, and these amendments, this Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Assembly of Change of Technical Nature. This law is one of the few laws in the Croatian Parliament, which in this conference went through a regular procedure in two readings, and we welcome this initiative and hope that in future such laws and similar laws will go into regular procedure, rather than an emergency procedure. The working bodies of the Croatian Parliament and the representatives in the debate held on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Public Assembly had the opportunity to present to the applicant a number of criticisms and concerns, and to make their proposals. I am sorry that this proposal has not yet passed a session of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security as one of the committees dealing with this issue and has already been discussed in the Croatian Parliament. We appreciate that, apart from the position of the Constitutional Court, the applicant has also accepted some of the proposals from the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, such as a clearer definition of the space foreseen for peaceful gathering and public protest. So, restricted this space to the southern surface of Mark's square. Streets and approaches that allow participants to arrive are also normised, and in the final proposal of the law also took care of persons with disabilities and persons with difficulty in moving. However, we do not believe that the shortcomings have been removed or the amendments to the laws that we have talked about in the early debate of the bill, amendments and additions to the Law on Public Assembly have been made, and when I say so, I mean things of a technical nature. The right to a public gathering is one of the fundamental human rights guaranteed by the Constitution. Freedom of assembly and the right to express their views through it are among the highest values of democratic society and so is ours. The essence of democracy is her ability to solve problems through an open debate. It is precisely peaceful gatherings and public protests in which political or other beliefs or goals are expressed, means of active, conscientious fulfillment of civic duty, and this law enables citizens to have a peaceful gathering and public protest in St. Mark. But esteemed colleagues and colleagues are at risk of their safety and security in their vicinity. Therefore, the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will be abstention in voting on this final draft of the law because of the technical character, i.e. the technical parts of this law. As my predecessors said that the Law on Public Assembly was adopted in this form in 2005, it was brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia under the leadership of the Croatian Democratic Community, and all criticisms by the ruling HDZ went in the direction that our goal was to capitalise on Mark's square and secure peace under their window. Now we're opposition, now it's the Kukuriku coalition window headed by the SDP. But I think it doesn't matter whose window it is. The safety of the citizens and the laws that we bring to this House are important whether they are enforceable and technically standardized. In the first reading of this law, we have often heard from fellow MPs the important message of citizens, the important thing is that we can express ourselves, the point is the point, it's not technical issues. It doesn't matter if we have 1,500 or 1550 protesters, etc. My colleagues and colleagues, I must warn you that these technical issues are very important, that we must make sure that the laws we adopt are primarily for the benefit, not for the damage of the citizens. And we need to make sure that these same laws can be implemented and implemented, but in a way that does not endanger the safety of citizens for which they have been adopted. The present location of the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Constitutional Court is located on a small surface. St. John's Square Marka is limited to the institutions of this state, and the very approach to this square is extremely narrowed down to narrow streets in a zone where most buildings are a monument of culture. The law also provides for the marking of the area whose regulation is in the authority and obligations of the city of Zagreb. So, we'll come back to what my colleague Lesar was saying before me that we'll have cages as he paints it in St. John's Square. Mark. So, by proposing this law, it's an inevitable and inevitable area, and we're going to have to limit that area by this law. In such circumstances protected cultural monuments are realistically exposed to the possibility of damage, rewarding and similar degradations, which is not appropriate since it is done with the blessing of incompetent law adopted by the applicant. This place is really not suitable for a public gathering, and I hope that one day the state will be in a much better financial situation, so the institutions of the Republic of Croatia will be set aside to a much more appropriate place where citizens will be able to safely achieve one of the fundamental human rights guaranteed by the Constitution, the right to public gathering and a peaceful protest. Also, I return to the number of 1500 persons and limit that figure. Most likely, this calculation obtained by the approximation of the area, i.e. the area covered by Mark’s square, the southern area of Mark’s square square area based on the assessment of the square metre area and on that square metre as many people as can fit within one square metre. If so, I ask again who will count these people and in what way, if we'll have counters, if we're going to have some directors, if we're going to have tickets. Who's gonna give it to them? What if there's more? Where shall we go with them, who shall not be able to come to the place of Mark's Square? He'll stay in a place that's not scheduled for a protest. So, they'll stay in places that aren't regulated by this law. What do we do with them? Whether such protesters, or those citizens, will be removed from these areas, in what way and how we will prohibit them from accessing that area where they will unfortunately be forced to stay while 1500 citizens, or protesters, will be in the area of Mark’s square. What if someone reports a set to that number, and a lot more people come? So we know ourselves from practice, from experience. Here I will deny a colleague who before me said that the protests that took place on Mark's square in the past period even though they were registered within the frameworks of the laws and frameworks of the special laws of the Republic of Croatia were not violent in nature we had attempts and violent entry into the Croatian Parliament both in the government and infuriating the facades and others. There was police intervention. So we all know that such unwanted events have occurred. And I hope that by passing this law there will be no such situation in the future, but I am afraid because of these technical constraints that will make the HDZ Council of Representatives refrain from passing this law, I fear that the greatest burden of implementing this law will be on the backs of the police. If there is a larger number than 1500, then the regulation of the police is complicated because someone is going to be in the Square, and naturally those too many that I have listed that will stay in the driveway want to get closer to Mark's square. And it is inevitable that the police will face the obligation we impose on them and that forced arbitration against citizens, including direct contact with protesters, will have to intervene. But in the end, it rules out such a possibility when it comes to a neatly announced peaceful protest. The question is, are these people who won't be able to make it to St. John's Square? Marks discriminated against those who would be able to come to St. Mark. I welcome the amendment of the draft laws on the access routes of determining and predicting the approach directions and their conditionality in a particular area of direction, but we have witnessed so far the gatherings and protests so far that the protesters are a living mass that is difficult to control and when they intend to move somewhere to, unfortunately, these approach directions that are normable... the law will hardly be able to comply with the fact that this is a spontaneous mass and that the adventure of that mass is more likely to come in some forbidden direction than certain directions, and it is inevitable that there will be contact with the director's service or police. What is also very important in this proposal is also limited by the retention of protesters, which is deplaced because then it is not the law that is usually passed for this democratic practice and matter. What if the protesters stay longer than 22 hours? I know that the promoter had in mind and the Law on Respect and Public Order and Peace where it is precisely normised until exactly how many hours is respected and beyond 22 hours that it is a matter of public order and peace and that, behind that 22 hours, police have to intervene and must come out. What if they stay more days as we have so far been examples when there were protests outside the Croatian Parliament? Will the police intervene then? This puts the only burden on the police again, which should be about how many people are coming, when it comes, where they can be held back and the police are unfortunately this law which is the only one responsible for the regular operation, or for the smooth functioning of all processes that take place on Mark's square, as well as the access routes as regards coming into the institutions of this country. Who will take responsibility for any incidents? What if a peaceful gathering from peace turns into some other protest? How will the police react to these tenms planned and comply with this principle of the phasing out of force? We are witnessing that in the world or European practice of this distance, or this distance from the institutions of the state, they are far greater distances that they are not this close. Unfortunately, we are limited by this space and area covered by St. Mark and I really don't know how the police will be able to comply with their legal obligation in the event of riot protests and how they will be able to comply with this principle of phasing out and using force. The very idea of public gathering in front of the Croatian Parliament, the Government and the Constitutional Court, and in this way the transmission of messages, attitudes and opinions of citizens is supported but because of technical conditions we believe that it is not enforceable and that it is not safe for the citizens themselves and that the message, attitude and opinion can be expressed both explicitly and in a far safer way than in this way provided for by this law. I am telling the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the Proposer before me that this is one of the promises made to the Kukurik coalition in its pre-election campaign. It may be better and safer for Croatian citizens not to keep this promise either. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11669	Thank you. On your exhibit, we have two corrections to incorrect allegations. The first one was a representative of Marin Jurjevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11670	Thank you. It is incorrect to quote colleagues, Brkic, that the changes offered by this law are of a technical nature. They are essential natures, essential natures, they speak of this government looking differently at its people and citizens of Croatia and not being afraid of them. Secondly, it is cynical to claim that this law threatens the safety of citizens. It's just like telling a difficult patient to protect him in such a way that you don't let him come to the hospital because there's a lot of traffic around the hospital so he could get run over by a car, so he can stand at home and die. So you found a thousand reasons to take away the right of citizens to protest there as you did when you were in power and yet you claim that it is in the citizens' interest and that those who will not succeed are discriminated against. It's the ultimate cynicism.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11671	Thank you. You announced your colleague Brkić's injury to the Rules of Procedure. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11672	Infringement of Rules of Procedure Article 209 I did not say that this law envisioned changes of a technical nature only, but I was talking about technical reasons which unfortunately would be difficult to implement this law and would not be able to fulfil what its law had in mind and in its idea had a goal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11673	Thank you very much, dear colleague Brkic. However, Article 209 simply makes it very difficult to hurt. He's interpreting the breach of the Rules of Procedure, so I find there were no injuries to the Rules of Procedure by fellow Jurevic. The next one came from Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11674	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting two incorrect allegations. First, what counterpart Jurjevic said, and it has repeatedly been repeated by his colleague that it is a technical law. It's not about any technical law, it's about the essential law that we have here, and we keep our election promise that citizens can come here where the most institutions of our country are and say their opinions. And this enables us to fulfil fundamental human rights under the European Convention on Human Rights and according to our Constitution. Secondly, you are saying that this authority could only have proposed or proposed an incompetent ministry. The ministry is competent and this is also shown by such an example not only essentially but also in its implementing regulations in which it will be done. So here's a colleague. We can talk about the incompetence of those who feared their own people. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11675	Time, colleague Anticevic, time, you're done. ... Time. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] You've corrected the quote and I hope it's new. Allow me, you will be able to replicate new amendments to your Rules of Procedure in one better way. And the next correction to the incorrect quote of colleague Zeljko Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11676	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, the same question as counterpart Brkic made it clear in his speech that in the law changes technical nature, it is simply not true. They are essential nature and the matter is very simple. You've banned people from gathering and protesting in St. John's Square. Mark, and we'll let it happen again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11677	Thank you. The next debate on behalf of the HDSSB club is divided. Igor Češek, here you go, buddy. And after you, colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11678	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. This Regulation shall enter The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia tells us that everyone is entitled to a gathering and a peaceful protest, and when proposing such a law, I am somewhat pleased because I felt that democracy is finally developing in Croatia and bearing in mind that the HDZ Government has abolished the gathering on Mark's square and thus made it impossible for citizens to approach the government and express their opinion either positively or negatively. After all, it is the right of citizens to choose power, and if they have the right to choose power then they have the right to express their opinion on the government. However, even then, I had objections, and I was allowed to approach Mark’s square. As far as I can see from this final proposal, this has been resolved by allowing people with disabilities and difficulty in moving to Mark's square to approach from Stone Street. In any case, the square is a public place and should be allowed for citizens to gather without restrictions on the terms of the gathering. In the final proposal, that time is limited, so nothing has changed, it is again limited to 8 to 22 hours. Why, why is that? Whether the protesters will come from 8 to 22, leave Mark's square and return to the protests the second morning. What if it's about 4-5 protesters protesting peacefully and not jeopardizing public order and peace? As for the limited number of protesters, the question arises as to who will count these protesters or public gathering participants. Will it be done by the police in any way? My proposal is if we already have countless agencies to set up a State Agency to organise a public gathering that will deal only with the organisation and sale of tickets. Anyone who wants to protest in the front row of the ticket can be, for example, 100 kuna, and in that case he has the right to strike hunger for eight days because just for those 100 kunas he could feed himself perhaps in those 8 days and his family. As things stand, my suggestion is that this agency is called JAO, a public dating agency, and the advertising of that agency itself could be very angry with the people we need. As things stand today by autumn, more and more citizens will need the services of such agencies.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11679	My colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11680	A colleague of Czechs has much better suggestions, namely Mr. Mamic invented that Real-Lion-Ajax package, so we could also sell a package of tickets for three gatherings in Mark's square to ensure that the citizens can come to Mark's market and protest. It's a good example of this kind of managerial approach, and since the managers run the government, here's our contribution to filling the state budget even better than it did before. But it's not about that, but I'm afraid that the situation will happen when citizens come here with flags on Mark's market, thank the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the increased VAT, thanking the increased price of electricity, electricity, that they will thank very soon for the increased TV fee because this government wherever it comes to the head of any HEP, any state, and here's the HRT. What you do first, raise the prices of what this state-owned company is in charge of or something else. So let's expect that they will come here to celebrate and increase TV fees, and based on yesterday's debate that has been concluded and what we will soon vote on. It would be much better if we were to pass the law, and this law is indeed a democracy on the hood, I would say, and some progress towards that HDZ stupid one I would say that Mark's market must not be protested. It's a senseless fear, but it may still be explained in view of all that is revealed and in court proceedings. I wouldn't go in because I have no competence and I have no right, but everything that's going on today and what's happening at the time of that HDZ rule. So, I propose that we pass the law on state officials, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as soon as possible to the parliamentary representatives who would go among the protesters, not to pass the law on protesters in Mark's square. An example. Many wonder why no one approached the protesters, or the women of the Stone when they protested. Why don't you go among the workers of "The Stone of Ingrad", excuse "The Adriatic Stone", and maybe "The Stone of Ingrad," and that's one special story. Furthermore, why don't we all go here to Dalmatia Wine amongst the people who went before the bankruptcy protested. It would be a move, not to prescribe here how people who come here will protest, how they will behave, which way they will come, where people with disabilities come, how many hours or hours can they come and when they have to go. What about those who strike hunger, I've asked that before. What will they have to go to 22? What's their credibility when they go home and come back in the morning? Did they have dinner? Those who camped here and fought their rights in Mark's square, someone here seemed to mention the case to me, that they would have to buy their tents and go home at 10:00 in the morning to come back at 8:00 and crucify their tent again. Although it is likely that the night will be completely peaceful, it can be protested, but it can be slept in Mark’s square in a tent, why not. What are the reasons why you can't? Tourists? So we have a full Spain protest, Italy, all the countries. Well, it's not tourism that's dying because of the protests. So that's not true. This truly cult place, there would be no proposal here for institutions to move out, institutions of the state, so government, parliament, constitutional court and others to move out of this place so that they can protest on the whole of Markov. So what is the point of even protesting if there is no Government and Parliament, those to whom the demand for protest is addressed and what the protest is about to achieve. It's completely absurd, it's total absurd. So, indeed here, although this law is listed in the title as the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Assembly, it is still only necessary to be added to Mark’s square because it is exclusively the location in which this legislative proposal speaks. So, only at Mark's square. So despite this second reading and besides this proposal that's already been discussed here we're in doubt as a club how to vote. He has made some progress, it must be acknowledged, compared to the general ban on gathering in Mark's square. In the square, as someone said to the cult site of Croatian history, which has been an occult place since 2005, actually hidden from the people, a forbidden city like the one in Beijing. So some progress is but insufficient. That ten meters from the Parliament, ten meters from the Government and look 20 meters from the Constitutional Court, and then there's another 15 meters from Mark's church, and then it's actually 50 meters from the Constitutional Court, not 20, that citizens are away and that's a certain security problem I wouldn't say so. I think this Parliament, this government, this state has already shown, especially in facebook protests, how it treats people and citizens. And I was a Protestant, and in '71. I was a Protestant for years but not in Mark's square, but in the square of the then Republic, today Jelačić's salary. And I didn't exactly go through what the Dalmatians would say, but it doesn't matter, let's keep going, let's fight. Therefore, this government, this Parliament, our Parliament, the Constitutional Court and the very predictable cordon of the Police, is therefore ready, trained, equipped to protect the Assembly and the Government of the Republic of Croatia better than that parade in Split has no danger. Our Croatian people would almost say that there is no more power to protest, there is no power or will watching all this and following what is happening has really fallen into one apathy and believe me I should not be afraid of protests and should therefore allow and therefore not only democracy to drop, gathering here on the drop, limiting the time and direction of arrival in Mark's square but rather allow from 0-24 gatherings calmly, and since 22 hours clearly there is a Law of Public Order and Peace, therefore there is also the possibility that protesters stay on Mark's square and during the night. Clearly respecting public order and peace. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11681	Thank you, too. On your exhibit, we have two corrections to incorrect allegations. The first one came from a colleague, Marin Jurjevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11682	Thank you. ... [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11683	My colleague Jurevic's microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11684	I'm correcting the quote of a colleague of the Czechs who said that nothing has changed by this law. Everything changes by this law and it's a completely different situation than what was before. Protests are allowed, they've been banned before. He was talking about the agency, and I'm telling yay to us while some MPs act as members of a dilettante theatre group, who are trying to ignore our citizens' minds with shallow demagogy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11685	Comrade Jurević, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11686	Tell them it's bad that they're allowed to protest.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11687	You should limit your colleague to the correction of an incorrect quote. ... My colleague Buric's injuries to the Rules of Procedure? [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11688	Mr. Vice President, I don't think it's necessary to stress which article of the Rules of Procedure has been injured, 214 has been injured. This is a serious insult to representatives in the Croatian Parliament, and you too, Mr. Vice President, must respond to this and you must warn the representative concerned. And don't lecture us, Mr. Jurovic about the dilettante debates, and I don't know what. I don't know when was the last time you said something smart in this Croatian Assembly except to celebrate the Partisan criminals and I don't know everything that happened during communism. Shame on you with such statements.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11689	Thank you. A fellow Jurjevic is being warned. Here you go, fellow Jurević, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11690	Perhaps a colleague is referring to the preamble of our Constitution, which calls for antifascism or a period when he was a member of the Communist Union. And second
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11691	What article of the Rules of Procedure? ... I'm taking your word from my colleague Jurević. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11692	That's what they call dilettante theatre groups.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11693	You're using your colleague Jurević's Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11694	I am a professional politician like you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11695	I take your word and give you a warning. At the announcement of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, we must announce an article of the Rules of Procedure which has been injured. Please in the future. Thank you. We have two corrections, we still have one correction of incorrect allegations. Ivan Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11696	I think you should remain faithful to the historical name of this square, that this is St. Mark, not Mark's square. That's the first one.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11697	You have corrected your colleague Grubisic's incorrect allegations. What are you correcting?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11698	Well, if they were talking about Mark's square,
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11699	What are you correcting?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11700	I do.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11701	In my opinion, my colleague Grubisic, it is not a correction to the incorrect assumption that it is your opinion. Here's hoping we'll bring a new Rules of Procedure... /The speakers speak out loud, they don't understand.... St. John's Square Marka's an official name.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11702	Well, that's why I'm correcting it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11703	I'm begging you, colleague Grubisic, please speak up, I can't hear you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11704	And secondly, I would agree that this is one cosmetic given the location of the gathering. Let the institutions do their jobs, and we have the square of Ban Jelačić where many worlds can come, and the elderly can hardly climb Mark’s square or St. Mark.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11705	Okay, thank you. I'm sorry, there's been a wave. I didn't hear exactly. Thank you. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the HSU club Silvano Hrelja. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11706	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Assembly, and I hope that it will probably be adopted in the Croatian Parliament on Friday as proposed. So, I've been listening very carefully to the debates so far, I'd like to look back on what's been said so far. And first, I would touch the argument of my colleague, Lesar, who told one great truth, with one exception. He said there were organized protests in St. John's Square. Mark never recorded any incidents and that's true. The one and only incident that happened in St. John's Square. Marka, which is a broken government window, is the evening of 2005 and that day ahead of the vote on the law that is now in force. But it's not about a protest that's been organised the way all those other protests have been organised, it's about the protest coming spontaneously, and it's about the arrest of General Gotovina. This should be known that the arrest of General Gotovina preceded the protest and preceded the adoption of the Public Assembly Act as we have today. And that one attempt to pass the Law on Public Gathering, which we have now failed in the spring of 2005, because there was one single vote missing, in order to pass the law qualified by the majority. And that's when the Constitutional Court brought him down. Let's get back to the protests. I remember a protest from February 27, 1995, one of the most fierce protests, when at Mark's Square, not at St. Mark, I'm sorry, but there's no way to even think about it. It's all the streets that can reach St. John's Square. Mark of Ilica was blocked. I remember our current colleague, Lesar, running this union convention, the Alliance of Independent Unions. There were more than 7,000 participants at the rally during that time. Next, after that, we came to the Stone Gate, I'm talking about union protests, but we're on St. John's Square. Mark couldn't make it. The first time you could have come to St. John's Square. Mark came from the union, during the coalition government, and that no one disputed that it could have come and that the protests were organised. One thing, however, is that he absolutely agrees with his colleague Lesar, it is unacceptable for people to be in cages. I have well checked what it says in these final provisions, the City of Zagreb will mark the place, so the distances this law speaks of. Which doesn't prejudge that someone's going to put two-foot transzenes and fences up. Because it does seem depressing, it seems in some way towards the protesters, I've been in that cage, in a way very inhumane, subjugating under those people who are in protest and very, very bad, very bad feeling. So, freedom was, but cages never do, never do again. It can be laminated about many things in this bill, and the fact is that it is a positive shift compared to the existing situation. That progress, that freedom, that it gives freedom of public gathering, that from the position of eye and ear anyone can send a message. And the protest does not want to break or destroy itself, but rather wants to give authorities a clear message as to whether or not citizens agree with certain policies to address certain problems. It can be lamentated here, whether it's enough for 1500 or 1500 citizens, or 1500 protesters, to be precise, in St. John's Square. Mark. However, see if somewhere it says that a creative organizer of the protest cannot change 20,000 people in St. Mark. Does it say anywhere that it's forbidden? That every county with 1,500 people come, say the problem of its county and go quietly and the other one comes up, what's the problem? Mr. Minister, is there some kind of obstacle? It's said of 1500 at one point in the square, I don't believe the promoter thought that they had to, that only those people could come that day, come to St. John's Square. Mark. So it's possible that there's a lot of creative here, let me be denied by the minister, then I'll be very dissatisfied, that it's tied to 1,500 people once an hour or two, as long as they announce themselves, and that the organizer has no other freedom. To be clear, the organizers here bear great responsibility. As previously said, it is a huge responsibility for the police and should indeed be told that in all situations related to St. Mark, they were up high. I'm not going to talk about flying into the entrance with the car, because it's not a protest, because it doesn't belong here, it doesn't belong to public protests, and what we're discussing today. I know for a fact that the protesters were at the height of the task and that they were certainly, that the police were certainly at the height of the task. And I think there's a mass of creative, creative possibilities. That I have also been to some protests outside the Republic of Croatia and it is my pleasure to see the experiences of others and how others do it. And I have not seen a single public protest, for the public protest is aimed at sending a message to whoever wants to be guided, not camping, rather than living in the place of public gathering. So, nowhere in Europe, and I was also in Italy, and in Germany, countries with developed culture of protests are not allowed camping, or several days of stay. And as far as I know, only the defender had a longer stay on St. John's Square. Mark, while with... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And, Slim, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, okay. But I think that, I don't think they helped themselves or anyone else with that, more than usual, and it's generally not the goal of someone, that the government only reacts when it's someone, or any of the authorities. It's only when someone camped here for seven days. It must react to that message that is seriously addressed to all authorities. But I know that we want to be innovators in everything, so maybe we'd like to put in protests and camping. However, it is indeed not in European practice anywhere common. I know that people in despair can and it is legitimate that they can go further than what the laws say and it is tolerated throughout the world, that is, in all countries, at least European democracy is tolerated in view of the legitimacy of such requirements. But it really isn't, it's more of an exception than a rule. Of course, to say question 8 to 22 will continue to be a question of further discussions, but somewhere the line should be underlined and as far as we are concerned in Croatia, the party of the pensioners has shown us the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Gathering is fully satisfied with the fact that we can commend the promoter for showing sensitivity to the requirements, i.e. proposals to committees and that better, better regulated the arrival of protesters who have difficulty moving on Mark's market. And I think it's a good improvement compared to first reading. So that's what we're happy about, and we support it. And I can only finally say that the Croatian Party Retirement Party club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11707	Thank you, too. On your exhibit, we have two corrections to incorrect allegations. Dragutin Lesar first picked up. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11708	The first quote I want to make from my colleague Silvana is March '95. About 7,000 participants participated in the event, but exactly 4,000 protesters accompanied by 3,000 police officers at the move of Ban Josip Jelačić Square to Prisavia and 50 journalists. And the restraining order to Mark's square was issued to me that morning at 7:00. We have a warrant to use all the resources a policeman has to use to disable your access to Mark's square. The note was all over it and afterwards the Croatian police first ordered rubber bullets. And second, camping. In addition to the fence, the outer fence, the outer part of the White House fence is allowed camping. Now imagine a colleague of Silvano why such pressure on a camping ban is right now? In democratic Europe, in America the form of camping and protesting is the most intense and effective. [[/Intruder Batinić: Thank you. Time co-worker.]] You agree to be banned in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11709	Thank you. And the next correction was reported by counterpart Dinko Buric. Here's your colleague Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11710	To thank Mr. Vice President. You've used the word several times that we can laminate here, that we can talk about this or that. Well, I just want to make it right if that's not the exact term. Lamentation means to mourn, to mourn, to moan, to moan. It's coming from the Italian lamentar. You're probably saying we can discuss it, not laminate. So here's a little history of it because it's getting lost at the meaning of what you're about to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11711	Thank you. We're done discussing clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate. First, a colleague named Domagoj Hajdukovic came forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11712	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Last time I discussed this law, I started with the words of Hallelujah, I'm going to start now. Hallelujah for freedom of opinion in the Republic of Croatia, hallelujah again. I believe that it is necessary, in fact, for us to have the obligation and responsibility as representatives of the Croatian Parliament, as representatives of the people, i.e. the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, to enable these same citizens to express their opinions without restriction, to warn us of their problems, that the voice of the people or of the vox pop up if we are going to throw ourselves around in Latin must be heard everywhere in Croatia, and St. John's Square. Mark can't be the exception. There must be no exception, one reason is that colleagues were respected before me and mentioned what St. John's Square is. Marka is particularly important, symbolically important for the Republic of Croatia. It exudes our history, there are our highest institutions of the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Constitutional Court and I think it is the right place for citizens to express their dissatisfaction, warn about their problems or express satisfaction but as anyone wishes. We are with a lot of problems, but I repeat, we will not solve these problems by running away from them and closing our eyes. Some colleagues often use that syntagma to view Mark's square or view from the Zagreb cathedral rather than from Osijek or Đakova. So that's why I think ladies and gentlemen that as responsible politicians when we look through the windows of the Croatian Parliament, when we look out the windows of the Croatian Government there we should have Croatian problems waiting for us, Croatian indeed, and I think we will make it possible in this way. The censorship of public opinion is for me both as a politician and as a man unacceptable in any form. And that is why I support every advance in liberalisation, that is, allowing people to give their opinion, to make their problems publicly public. To publicly show criticism, praises, plight, objections. It is their right, and it is also our obligation as elected officials to listen. And that is why I repeat to my colleagues here and my colleagues as well as to the Croatian public that I may disagree with what some of them or some of them have to say. But also in the words of the great Walter to the death I will fight for their right to say so. Some restrictions must clearly exist. I support all restrictions on the security of the protesters themselves, because we often know that such protests are known to raise tensions and blood. Therefore, some real restrictions should be introduced, and I think that's okay. And I am also pleased that the Resort Ministry has respected some of our remarks that we have, above all, made by the Ombudsman persons with disabilities, and also made it easier for people with disabilities to access St. John's Square. Mark so that they can consume their civil rights and express their opinion. I think that's another argument that confirms that we should leave behind I have called these conditions the particular defenders among other things and the Ombudsman for people with disabilities in order to point out these problems more clearly and more loudly. Once again, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Croatian Parliament are alleluating to this law and hallelujah for freedom of opinion of the same in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11713	Thank you, too. I'd just ask all of you if you have something urgent or try to lower the intonation or here you can step outside for a moment and discuss it because so you don't interfere with your colleagues in the debate. We've registered three replicas. The first one was Dinko Buric. Here's your colleague Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11714	I couldn't resist not answering this. You know to me it sounds really hypocritical that the word hallelujah which means praise the Lord comes from the words of your party representatives whose president and current prime minister recently says I am not a believer. It's a replica. I'm not a believer, so there's no need to come to church at all, and you three, four times here, you teach us a lesson in hallelujah for this law. So as long as your president and you hold on to the Bible as much as you want to allow citizens to protest publicly.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11715	Thank you. He had a reply to the replica. A colleague of Hajdukovic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11716	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Buric SDP is a party that allows personal opinions and I can have him as such and would not even be in a party that would not allow me to have my own personal position. I am Mr. Buric raised in the Catholic family, I went to religious school, I received all these sacraments except for the sickening, the marriage and the Holy Order, and I hold that my right as a believer is to say hallelujah in this House of Commons, I think it's my right. The more I have never been and you often impose it on me in my discussions, I have never been a member of any Communist Party or the Communist Union, nor am I burdened with it. I am Croatian, Catholic and I am a member of the SDP of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11717	Thank you. Next replica, Drazen Djurovic. Here's a colleague of Djurovic's. Comrade Djurović, have you given up the replica or do you want to replicate? Then I gave you my word.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11718	Excuse me, Mr. Vice President, I didn't hear you. You're a long way off. I apologize. You're really far away. So, as far as hallelujah is concerned, I'm not going back to it now, but this is not some big reach of the SDP government. I think this whole law began me at the Constitutional Court's decision. So this is not a question of someone's pre-election programme, this authority could not avoid disrespecting the Constitutional Court's decision. Therefore, this is not some big creation of a democratic government compared to a non-democratic but rather an enforcement of a Constitutional Court decision that abolished the previous law and asked for protests on Mark's square. They are enabled in the most editorial form and time, both with the number of people and with the space to be held. Therefore, not something has been done very, very democratically some particular step. Second of all, our assembly representatives are being caught in the street, in the squares, as soon as we get out of here, they can protest us any way they want us to. But how will Croatian citizens protest to the President of the Republic? Where's our President of the Republic? How's he gonna get under the window? It's pretty far and deep hidden in a villa on Pantovchak. And we did nothing to bring the Croatian president closer to the Croatian citizens, and they will not meet him on the street and they cannot protest him like we do. So this law is not in any way what we could do, so let's let the people enter the space of Villa Pantovčak 300 protesters, and let them protest there 10 meters away from the buildings, not 100 meters away from the entrance of that huge property on the Pantovčak. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11719	Thank you, too. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11720	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I agree with you colleagues as far as the Constitutional Court is concerned, but you must also bear in mind that the protest was previously forbidden. Of course the obligation and the Constitutional Court oblige us to change that law. But I believe that it is and symbolism is extremely important, and I think we will raise democratic reach when people are in St. John's Square. Mark could say what they think. In addition, I think your colleague Buric mentioned that protests or colleagues of Lesar are allowed, now I don't know, that protests are allowed, and next to the White House fence but no one enters the White House of Protesters. So I support every initiative to hear citizens' opinion but I think the government of the Republic of Croatia and representatives of the Croatian Parliament are more invited than the president. And besides, the president has a very open policy regarding people's reception, and I don't believe he would deny anyone the right to come to him and express his problems eventually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11721	Thank you. We have another replica, Sima Luchin's representative. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11722	Thank you very much. So maybe you should remind yourself that at Mark's square sometimes you could say what you were thinking, and you could camp, you could throw eggs until the moment the government was at risk, or the moment it was threatened, then the campers were removed from Mark's square. But what can be read through most of the debate here I would warn of that danger, which is that on the one hand, freedom and security are often opposed. We are witnessing today to be monitored, listened, monitored under cover and the need to protect national, public or other security. And always if there is a dilemma between security and freedom, I always choose freedom. And that Croatian police cannot respond to tasks in such a small, ungrateful space as Mark's square is not true. I think I believe in the Croatian police, too. I'll give you an example. So, a year ago, the police arrived at Gay's in Split, and what happened happened. This year, the police did their best work, prepared themselves, and there was no excess. That's how it's gonna be in Mark's square. The moment the police take their job seriously and prepare the meeting, they'll do the job right. If not, then there'll be an excess. One more thing I note, let us not oppose at least where we do not need security and freedom because I think Croatia has mechanisms to ensure the safety of every public gathering and public gathering. And if there's going to be an excess it's hard to predict. You see, some colleagues wake up so they can't protest with the president and Pantochuck. But remember the Facebook protests, so they were some people sitting here in this House under the window and shouting. The president of the Croatian state can probably come as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11723	Time, buddy. Thank you. We don't have an answer. We're moving on to the debate. Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please welcome your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11724	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, here is fellow Sobol, speaking on behalf of the SDP club, reiterated and reminded that the ruling coalition is fulfilling the election promise with this bill. The way it was done, so also on the formal side, but first of all with that strong political message that this authority is carrying and which we, as most of this bill, will support. I'm expressing it just as opposed to those, and I'm going to say a little bit later, which I don't know exactly why they call this law incompetent, I'm a resolute minister and the entire government on this particular one, and the weight of the task was also in this technical, normative sense certainly on the job well done. So who's against this law today? In 2004, those who came to power immediately showed their temper and who showed, so one of the first legal solutions was a ban on gathering in Mark’s square and thus clearly showed what they would do in their rule that they would not want to share a square with the people, let alone its fate. And here today, speaking on behalf of the HDZ Club, you're the same ones who gave up apparently Sanader's character, but not his work, because this was his work, this ban, they're more concerned, so here today they mentioned the facades, the scolding of the facades. In any case, we are more concerned with the abuse of democracy than about the depravity of the facades. Those who then banned the gathering in 2005 must have felt that they had to work peacefully, although no government was allowed to do so, and then why would it be, but obviously there was a reason. They wouldn't listen to the sound of the whistle, and apparently they preferred the noise and listened to the rustling of money. We're witnessing this today by looking at transmissions and cuttings from the courtroom. Before 2005, since 2001, there was no protest, camped there, camped for a year and a half. And let's remind ourselves, it wasn't that there wasn't a fallout, the opposition was fed, but every little bit of the prime minister, and the ministers were also thrown yogurt and other dairy products, including eggs. For a year and a half, he camped here with great and hearty help. And what hypocrisy, as soon as they came to power, they banned the gathering at Mark's square. And why, apparently, they were aware that they couldn't stand the atmosphere of an exciting crowd of people who had just caused their own way of ruling. However, the fundamental function of the legislative authority, as well as the executive authorities, is precisely public. So we understand the power, not only do we meet the constitutional obligation to law and enforce constitutional law, the European Convention on Human Rights, but we also show the nature of the government. Because pre-political thinking is only about winning elections, or supporting citizens in elections. Well, that's what we've heard so far, and it's a practice that needs to be interrupted. So winning the election, no one has therefore given anyone a mandate to rule, but not to rule as they wish. So this is also how it allows citizens to express their opinion, to express their dissatisfaction. So, fear still today is afraid to talk about how many people will come, how, who will, so there will be police. She's trained for it and we're not here to even ask questions that they've given answers to in this law. It's just like when we discussed in the Penal Code on Drug Use for These Needs, for... so how will the judges know, so they learn at least 7 years together with a judicial exam. But when it was banned that there was a ban all these years if we applied for a constitutional assessment because the law was not passed by the necessary majority first. After 7 days in the same content, in the same form here, they managed to pick up 77 votes somehow because it is, of course, organic law. Those who today gave up the character, but not the actions and actions of Eva Sanader, some of them there and bound themselves with chains in protest, were clinked with chains, a legitimate form. No one asked a question. And all these years after the constitutional lawsuits were filed and later the association submitted a request for an assessment of constitutionality, no one asked why people couldn't come and protest. The explanation was very interesting, something in its replicas, i.e. the corrects of the incorrect allegations, was also spoken by counterpart Marin Jurjevic, as well as colleague Sima Lucin. And I think it's important and it needs to be repeated right now. So whenever the government finds itself in a crisis, in some impasses precisely because of its rule or without answers to the questions and problems that need to be addressed, it finds it in certain legislative solutions, which are mostly prohibited, it finds that edigo of general usefulness. That's how the justification was for the introduction of the ban, the fear of terrorism. So it's important that the government is not afraid of citizens. That it's open, that it takes suggestions because at the end of the day, it's not her own good will, it's her duty. A government that needs to be proven all the time. The authorities are not responsible for anyone else proving to her guilt, power almost daily, and especially their legal proposals and other actions must explain and explain to the citizens why they are doing it. That's the quality of a good government. And that's to listen. And that's what this government will do, and this law shows it will listen to gentlemen, not listen.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11725	Thank you. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Advocacy Đurjica Sumrak. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11726	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, colleague Anticevic is incorrect in your claim that in reality you are deeply concerned about the abuse of democracy because that way, fellow counterpart Anticevic, in the last six months, you would not have passed a series of laws that in reality you are seriously insulting democracy. Among other things, here we were yesterday discussing one of those, it's the HRT Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11727	Thank you. We have one replica, Representative Boro Grubisic. Here's my colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11728	My colleagues, Ingrid, I'm going to give you a chance to replicate my replica. So, I'm going with the replica. Namely, it is also funny of you who are very analytical and always appreciate your discussions to talk about how this is fulfilled as well as some of the other SDP clubs that it has fulfilled the pre-election promise. If that's the ultimate achievement of fulfilling your pre-election promises, then this law, then you really should admire it, is it, such a one-way politics and a little demagogy? Namely, you continue to manage that panis ethoenses with the fact that this panis is not bread, but there are games with Mark's square and here the possibility of a peaceful, yet peaceful or restless protest will only be seen. So, I also advocate that, thank God and our club, that Mark's square be opened to the citizens in connection with a peaceful protest, but what you did in these 6 months as your other reach began from the Komadin Law, so the law of Komadin, then Fernček, then Fernček, then Holy, then 15% collects electricity, gas, etc. These are your achievements that we should talk more about here. And about this, it's clear that this is the one I said a little step towards democracy, and it might be bigger if we put this law together differently, right? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11729	Thank you, too. Next up for debate, Vice President Nenad Stazic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11730	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. What makes this law important, what is it arranged for? It essentially regulates the relationship between voters and selected ones. On the one hand, those who make decisions in the Parliament, in the Government, the Constitutional Court, and on the other hand voters, citizens, people. In 2005, the HDZ government, HSS and other partners were scared of the public and banned the gathering. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11731	Comrade Grubishi, please refrain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11732	That's what you said to the people, get out of our sight, we don't want to see you, we don't want to hear you. It didn't help much. Facebook gatherings have shown that when there is a ban on gatherings in Mark's square citizens come to politicians' homes and protest there. Very embarrassing for those whose windows are being protested. Therefore, the ban on gathering, the ban on protesting in Mark's square, did not bring the expected result to the former government. In Croatia, power comes from the people and belongs to the people, according to the first article of our Constitution. As a result, every government has been elected in democratic free elections by the national government, it stems from the people. In that sense, but a completely pointless statement by the head of a party who called this authority the Kukurik coalition's authority an unnatural power. The statement is so pointless that it enters serious competition that it is permanently cited together with already legendary, famous statements by the prime minister's jubito. But here's the party that banned the gathering of the people considers itself a people's authority, and the one authority that renewed it has restored the right to the citizens to protest and called the gathering an unnatural power. Even that power that robbed its own people if elected in the elections has been considered a people's power. And listen to the people who bring thieves to power, and do not deserve anything but to be robbed. That's his lesson in the future. Why should a gathering be allowed in every place and in Mark's square? A statement on the international government, the head of one opposition party, insulted 958 thousand and 318 citizens who voted in favour of the authority, who elected it. What did he tell them? Only the people can choose the power of the people, and you have chosen the power of the people; you are not a people, you are a people. That's what the head of an opposition party told them. And that is why it is necessary to allow a gathering in every place and even in Mark's square that these 958 thousand and 318 citizens can come here under the windows of the Parliament and tell him listen, look at us, we are a people. We are a people no matter what you think of us as a people, no matter what you insult us, no matter what you humiliate us. If all these 958 thousand could come, 1500 each 1500 to 1500 would not be worth much to them, for the one who insulted them would not hear them, there is simply no one here. He's gone, so he's gone. No, however, it does not offend these 958 thousand voters to the coalition's corn, thus insulting the 335 thousand HDZ voters who chose him to represent them here. They chose him, and he's gone. The HDZ says that in terms of this law it will be abstention, it is also quite logical and clear. If we all took such a stand, if all of us in this assembly were restrained as HDZ, the law couldn't change. And there would be a ban on gathering at Mark's square. The HDZ remains fully consistent, loyal to it must be recognised, it remains afraid of citizens. But given what they've done to the people, that fear is completely understandable to me, it's no wonder they're afraid of citizens. And since their leader, after this unprecedented robbery on behalf of the party, is even insulting the people by claiming that this nation has been chosen by an international government, that fear is not only understandable, it is justified. Ferralism about who will count the protesters, who will find that there are 1499 so that he can come back just one more to meet the quota, which means they can't go to Mark's square. They won't discourage us in our decision to fulfill our pre-election promise and pass this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11733	Thank you. We have five replicas reported for your exposure. First responder to Shima Lucin. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11734	Thank you very much. I agree with you that every law that expands the space of freedom is a significant step, so let me put it this way, if we can say that we are closer to freedom and democracy, in some ideal sense. Although there's no ideal point in this part, unfortunately. However, you say that it makes sense that the opposition has this attitude towards this law. It may be logical, but it doesn't make sense to me how the opposition explains why it's not for this law, so it's justified by technical matters, security elements, etc. It is unacceptable for me for a simple reason, because we said this law is important, although it is important, if the right to free expression of opinion in every place and then in St. John's Square. Mark should be an integral part of a democratic society. Then it's not clear to me that it's justice to technical elements. Will the police provide that power, will it be 1200, 1500, what if there are more? I think that such discussions, in fact, that actually when it's discussed it doesn't understand the essence and essence of this law, or what it's making, and that's the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11735	Thank you. We have next, the next line came from Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11736	Your Honor, Mr. President. Just a brief replica of Mr. Stazic's exposure, and we'll discuss everything else later. So, Mr. Stazic said the party president, I don't think he named him, to whom I belong, hurt 920 thousand voters who chose this current current current government.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11737	Wait a minute. I don't see the trail.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11738	It kind of hurt him that the president of this party, to whom I belong, Mr. Karamarko said it was an unnatural government. That's it. One was a clumsy expression, and it wasn't personal to me, I wouldn't say it. And I don't think in purely technical terms and legal terms it's true. But in comparison, Mr. Stazic, what Mr. Milanovic, your party president, says without a priest, begs. That everything that the Croatian people have done through their taxpayers is not to be blessed by the priest. He did not only hurt 920 thousand people who chose him, but the entire Croatian people. This is Croatia, this is Catholic Croatia. The Croatian people are Catholic people because 90% of them are thus declared Milanovic, your president has injured the entire Croatian people and mocked him in the face. And all his saints, and mocked by the bells of the Zagreb cathedral. And as for the international government, in this respect, Karamak was right. It logically stems from what I said, from the behavior of your president.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11739	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Vice President Stazic. Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11740	The Republic of Croatia is not the Catholic Republic of Croatia, but is the Republic of Croatia, it is neither Catholic nor mosque. She's a secular state, a secular state, that's what the Constitution says. This all you said was a flagrant violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, flagrantly. When an ignorant man does so, an irresponsible man, and then perhaps it can be understandable, when the elected representative of the citizens in the Croatian Parliament does so, it is a shame, how difficult it is to find a comparison.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11741	Thank you. Replica was next reported by MP Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11742	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Very often in this House, when the laws and other acts are discussed, it calls for the European Union and the practice of the European Union. In the debate on this law, no one has called on the European Union, why? It seems to me in my first reading that, if I am not mistaken, my colleague König listed some of the provisions that in certain countries there are restrictions on access to governments, parliaments from 70 to 300 meters. Probably advocates of this interpretation now 10 meters, will say that we are so many times more democratic than some countries, or I don't know what to call it. What, therefore, there is always this sort of measure and the reasons that have been established, some rules of conduct, and no one in these countries will say that the gathering of nations is forbidden, no one will say that these authorities are not democratic, no one will say that these countries are not democratic. What's happening here, it's embarrassing, when from certain cases, you draw such general attitudes and conclusions that are simply pure demagogy. And that's what we need to understand once that the election measures things, as democratic as that previous government was, is that what the people decided, is this one, and has the right to make decisions. And coming back all the time and talking about what was in the previous term simply means not having the strength and solving the problems we face.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11743	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Vice President Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11744	Dear Comrade Tudjman, I did not speak of the undemocratic character of power. On the contrary. I said that every power elected in the election is legitimate, democratic. I was talking about the government's relationship to its own citizens, to its own people. If they were banned from a gathering that existed in a certain place by then, then she told those citizens I didn't want to see or listen to you under my windows. That's what I said, and that's where I stay. This power can be democratic and authoritarian power is power, it has been elected. I was talking about her character, about her relationship with those who chose her.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11745	Thank you. Next replica, Josip Salapic, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11746	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Vice President Stazic, the law we are discussing today came from the Constitutional Court's decision, and what I think is important and important in the democratic state, this should be a right that can be consumed, not consumed. Today, the minister, I heard a statement calling on the citizens that as early as July 15th, they could go to Mark's square to protest. There are probably reasons why citizens in this country want and need to protest. So who would go crazy at 39 degrees to wear transparent from 8 to 22 hours and protest. And you and Mr. Vice President Stazic and members of the ruling coalition ask yourself if there would be 900,000 votes if citizens knew about VAT 25%, if they knew about the abolition of collective agreements, that there would be no Christmas cards, that there would be no regress, that they would collect fuel, that they would collect electricity and that there would be more and more unemployed. That figure would probably fall to half the figure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11747	Thank you. We have an answer to your line, Vice President Stazic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11748	Dear Salapic, you've all been a member of the party long ago, which led to this government's need to increase VAT. Until you changed your coat you belonged to that authority, you belonged to a stranger who almost robbed this people.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11749	My fellow MPs, don't make me do this, you didn't get your word, I'm sorry. Don't break the Rules of Procedure, please. And another replica, representative Ivan Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11750	It is mentioned here whether this power is current current national or unnatural. I think that the people and the people's will were chosen, as was the former government, because it was done by the same principles and methodology. The question is whether this power is both democratic when we don't have a list of voters which is not good and we don't even have a published census since last year. As independent representatives, we advocate the general welfare of the Croatian people, the citizens of Croatia and the individual rights of every man. So, the national government is, but we need to work to make it a democratically elected power and to be elected representatives directly, not just from the party lists. That'd be good. Croatia is a civil state it is certainly also a constitutional category and it should be insisted on, and in my opinion, every world-class mirror that man personally chooses is legitimate and legal. Croatianism should not be proved by Catholicism, nor by any other titles. Everyone here must be free to their commitment and that commitment should be appreciated. Here's so much for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11751	Thank you very much. Let's move on, individual debate. Representative Branko Vuksic, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11752	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Well, history has denied many speakers who used to speak, although I didn't mean to refer to it, but I have been offered an increasing number of those who claim that the authorities have been elected by the peoples of the people of the people of democratic power by all authorities. History has denied you. Many of the authorities chosen by the people were not democratic, and in my opinion, political literature is the national authority not only chosen by the people but by the people who work for that people. Often, the authorities chosen by the people are against that nation. I'm not talking about any concrete, or any of this current government, I'm not talking about an ex-government. But when you talk about it, you should keep it in mind. What brings to the Kukurik coalition when I speak, it seems to me that it was April 27th this year about it on behalf of the club we supported the bill and I think that the law is welcome. He has some technical indiscretions, but these technical indiscretions can certainly be corrected. They were also discussed by the president of the Croatian Labour Club – the party of work Mr Dragutin Lesar so I would no longer spend my words on it. However, to glorify this Law, to say that it is some proof of a supreme democracy that is simply not true. Nothing important changes. Things are going back to normal. So, we're not exactly moving out of place. We were back, now we're in zero position. Nothing bows to the people. As it was said, we promised it, so now we're giving. That's what you promise the baby you'll buy chocolate and then buy it, so you say here I bought you a chocolate. You do not give; you do not bow down to the people; the people have the right to do so. As soon as he's entitled to it, it means you haven't fulfilled your promise. You just run the policy you need to run, and that's why you should be commended. Previously on "Several Replications"... You're way too busy with HDZ. The opposition does not support this Law, opposition this and you always look at HDZ. It is not your biggest opposition, you have a larger opposition in the Croatian Parliament. So it's just a college suggestion. Part of the opposition supports this Act, at least my smallness if not everyone in the club of Croatian Labourers who has no task of thinking about one man. So far, I think it's hypocritical for those who have banned the gatherings from giving lessons to others who are trying to open St. John's Square. Mark for the possibility of protesting. It is hypocritical to say that there is no need to allow protesting in St. John's Square. Mark because you could destroy historic buildings. Forgive me, the greatest sanctity is certainly man, the greatest sanctity of man's freedom and not allow man freedom and taking as an alibi the constraint of freedom, destroying buildings just doesn't sound good. How many times did these Croatian citizens exactly of that authority fearing that these citizens would destroy their existences, countless times. That's why I used to talk about the character of government, that the character of government determines what that authority is, not the way of choice itself. So what seems to be correcting today is one injustice done to that people, and many other injustices should be corrected. And besides, the fear of the Croatian people is meaningless. The Croatian people are good people, Croatian citizens, when we talk about the Croatian people and when I mention the word Croatians, I mean in a political context, so Croatian citizens don't even throw tomatoes, don't speculate on people's eggs, don't insult the shields, see Zagreb how neat the city is. Croatian people are decent, Croatian citizens are too much tolerant to authorities who were intolerant to Croatian citizens and Croatian citizens should not be afraid. And I am sure that those cages that are meant to be set up or were set up should not be set up because Croatian citizens will not destroy what is theirs. If that happens, if there is a rioting protest as we call them, it means that everything that seems to that people has come across the throat and that government needs to be asked whether it can behave more if it can represent that people who have chosen. Before one of my colleagues said, it seems to me that it was a colleague of the Hill, that it doesn't say anywhere that it has to be the same 1,500 people all day. Now he's gone too far with it. That's where he gives the cream to say you're doing the theatre play out of it. As I said two months ago, or when we discussed this, you'll be charging for it, giving tickets for the protests. Yes, if you change protesters every two hours, you can change 8,000 a day, say, protesters by two now, just give them a program to make it interesting that people really change neatly and it can see about 300 thousand people on the square monthly. And a really large number of people are going to protest in the square. The decision taken or adopted should be respected, if adopted, if the majority of the Parliament adopts and should certainly stop glorifying this law as the ultimate law allowing freedom. Freedom was simply denied and she is now coming back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11753	We have three replicas reported to this exhibit. First, the distinguished representative Drazen Djurovic will replicate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11754	Well, here's Mr. Vuksic. You encouraged me to do the replica when you talked about how good the Croatian people are and how Croatian citizens shouldn't be afraid. It is certain that the Croatian people are a good people as soon as they have endured this previous rule for eight years, and relatively and well as they manage to endure the pressure that this current government has put on their shoulders for now. Duraju, the people sort of dura. But I would return to me worrying about how we will bring our people closer to that institution in which this people, according to all the surveys of public change, has the highest confidence, which is the President of the Republic. How to get our President of the Republic closer to the people and that people can express their protest to that President of the Republic. That solution is not found in the amendments to this law, and that is not what we do. Do we know that all of us MPs under one, the people misjudge us, we have a low rating. Two, we ourselves say that the ruling majority is just an instrument, the government's voting machine, and therefore, under three, we all drive on public transport except for the president of the parliament and the deputy. Therefore, we are available to the citizens when we arrive, leaving the Parliament. However, the problem is that our president is very inaccessible to citizens' protests, interlocked, hidden and now that the legislator may in no way have yet to imagine a little more than this decision of the Constitutional Court which respected the gathering in St. Mark how to make the President of the Republic more accessible to Croatian citizens so that they can protest to him too. Here might be a chance to think about it. In the President's office, there are 100, 150 officers, people working on maintenance, so they could work as security guards and at least let 500 protesters and the president in his office there. There's a lot of room on Pantovichk to hold such protests there.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11755	Thank you very much. The replica will be answered by the esteemed Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11756	Dear counterpart Djurovic, so it doesn't suck up there to the senior president of the former state, Josip Broz Tito, there made that villa inaccessible to him, but I guess the historical circumstances have led to historical circumstances, and because of our poverty, it was decided that our president is also sitting on Pantovac. And certainly our only option is to ask the president to come to the protesters. If the protesters can't go to him then when they gather in Ban Jelačić Square to make a law for the president to come to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11757	Dinko Buric will do the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11758	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I will replicate to my distinguished colleague Vuksic, at one point you said that we should not generalise when it comes to the opposition parties' position under this bill, and it is good that you said that because of the debate and the representatives of your club and our colleagues from the club, it is clear that we do not oppose this bill if we consider it better than it is existing. As we said yesterday that we believe that the bill on HRT which yesterday was a subject of the agenda is worse than the existing one, so here we say that this bill is better than the existing one. However, we have this particular fence that we said in the debate over the time when it will be allowed, etc. But what is most important here, I will remind you of the statement made by Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic several days ago when he said that this amendment of the law is a small matter and irrelevant to Croatia and Croatia's progress, but it shows what attitude we have towards civil freedoms. That's what Prime Minister Milanovic said. However, Croatian citizens do not expect only to amend laws that will allow them to gather publicly and protest. This government has received citizens' trust to give them a better life and there is no reason for protests, not to allow them to protest. And that's what this government has to take special care of.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11759	And this replica will be answered by the esteemed Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11760	Here's my colleague Buric you mentioned yesterday's debate and yesterday's proposal to amend and supplement the HRT Act. Yes, here we get a more democratic law, a better law today, today we raise democracy, yesterday we humiliated democracy. Yesterday we discussed one that will probably be given the fact that one of our colleagues threw a lot of 78 votes to us yesterday, we don't need you, but Friday will certainly be passed a non-democratic law, one that annuls freedom of the media, mainly the HRT. So we're back to zero again, nothing, it's not some big advantage of this law, but once again I say hello.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11761	His disagreement with the personal exposure through the replica will also be expressed by the respected representative Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11762	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I must say that I agree with my colleague Vuksic when he said that the elections are not a measure of democracy in this sense, but my intensity did not go in that direction but went in the direction of saying that we must change these democratic sides and after the election we do not... and talk all the time about the past, about what was in the past term, the mandate of the previous government because the people said it in the elections. However, relations in both the Parliament and our political life are such that we are doomed to do so. Why, because it would be normal to establish a new assembly of parliaments, when a new set comes to power to come out with its development strategies, with a national security strategy, an economic strategy, a scientific strategy, an information strategy, and then to measure things in the next period. Since it's not happening, since we haven't seen it, how we don't have it presently, how it hasn't been agreed and discussed, then we've been spinning around all the time and worshiping each other who said or didn't. In such a context, what I wanted to say, as well as this debate, I agree that this is a step forward from 110 meters, but in fact what I do not agree with are these generalisations of the conclusion that this is a measure of freedom of gathering of the people etc., as it is said here, is simply to prove that we are more Catholic than the Pope because there is simply no such thing in other European Member States of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11763	And here we will hear the answer of the respected Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11764	Dear colleague, I agree entirely with you. Transferring responsibility to former authorities is an expression of the powerlessness of the current government. Remember now and in 2003 elections, and after the elections, I think the HDZ government has transferred responsibility to Racan's government for 4 years. That needs to be changed. Then they got a little tired for four years. [[Intruder: Eight.]] Okay, maybe eight years. So, you don't have to. And Prime Minister Milanovic said at an opening speech here in the parliament that he would not be called to the responsibility of the former government, to the failures of the former government, to the disastrous state, but the ministers each day take that particular alibi, but they are, the people to whom the government has rightly chosen to make them and to correct them, not to call on what the former government was doing. Every once in a while, the truth needs to remind you, too, so you don't forget.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11765	We continue with an individual debate, so I give my word to the esteemed Boris Blažekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11766	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This is another one in a series of laws that is trying to regulate our country and I personally think that the implications, the changes to this law, are much more politically than you could say at first sight. In the last 20 years, there has been a distortion of the balance between politics and the economy in all three important areas: analysis, social action and institution building. This resulted in the marginalisation of society and the inability to fully understand what is happening in and with society. The predominance of economic logic has been particularly devastating for new liberal democracies that are just being built by civil society. Because of the value that this imbalance has led to, social activists are focused on general good and values such as solidarity, equality, justice, protection of minorities and particularly democracy. The mobilization of society has become possible only in enmity and selfishness. The domination of the economy, particularly in new democracies, has resulted in corrupt politics, the appearance of the mafia and the most primitive political population. The rebellion and demonstrations in most Western democracy states, including Croatia against banks, large capital, neoliberal economies de facto, are a requirement to return to politics. These protests are mostly without visible leaders and without concrete requirements that could be verified, but their message is a request for participatoryness, for inclusion of society in decision-making on their own destiny at different levels, and for the return of positive values based on democratic political culture, solidarity, universal human rights, freedom, civil equality, tolerance, justice as a practical category in the functioning of state institutions. Therefore, one of the priorities of the upcoming period is the affirmation of these values and the strengthening of their established political culture, participation in society. As a basis for strengthening participatory culture, there are two processes, the necessity of completing the construction of state institutions and the second involvement of citizens in topics that directly mobilise and interest them. It is important to create a competent critical public, the role of the media, educational institutions, but certainly also political parties. In order for a participatory culture to really develop, citizens must feel competent and the impact of the decision in which they participated must be tangible to them and, therefore, it is particularly important that citizens take part in the decision-making process at local level. Local democracy is important in the development and promotion of alternative types of democracy. alternative forms of decision on the life of their own community especially in the smallest units of local self-government and workplace democracy. Employees must participate in decisions dictated by everyday life and considered competent. The step towards the openness of authorities must be the result of the adaptation of expert and political elites. A public gathering thus falls under human rights. In its short history, Croatia has passed various stages and ways of gathering citizens. From the gathering to support the upcoming political elite in the late '80s and early '90s through the gathering and protest of the unionists in the early '90s, gatherings due to the threat of Radio 101 and the welcome of Croatian soldiers after the Storm. Meetings against the 2nd January government of President Mesic on the Split Riviera, a gathering of so-called "Kester Collector" at Zagreb's Tuškanc, gathering of Generals of the Homeland War at the square, camping on Mark's square, regular union gatherings on May 1st in Zagreb Maximir until the gathering of civil rebellion against construction on Split's Marjan or gathering of also civil rebellion against the Flower Centre in Zagreb. I've listed just some of the more significant or better-known gatherings from our closer and direct history. These examples show that there have been various reasons for gathering Croatian citizens and citizens in public spaces in order to publicly and loudly express their views. And these circumstances are always different and increasingly different with the development of civil society, but also with the openness of government and openness of state will be even more different in terms of public expression of satisfaction or dissatisfaction. Public gatherings are also important in order to express satisfaction, and public awareness is a much more important set of expressions of dissatisfaction. The overall layering of all socially-organised countries, as well as in Croatia, simply calls for public expressions of various dissatisfactions, various layers of organised but unorthodox and disorganised groups of citizens. I am convinced that the participation of citizens in the work of the state and the responsibility for the same state does not stop and that they do not conclude by putting a ballot in the ballot box. The work that follows the elections continues to be carried out by political elites for citizens and citizens must continue with constant monitoring and constant criticism. In situations of extreme satisfaction, but also the extreme dissatisfaction of citizens and citizens, they have the right and the state must enable them to express their dissatisfaction by public gathering. It is allowed by the Constitution and by law laid down. With regard to the development of civil society, civil rebellion is an important scoreboard for the state and state institutions. Modern societies require an open government and open institutions. For the proper social participation of citizens and citizens, demystification of institutions is necessary, and it is important to organise and present to citizens and citizens as their own service. The state is here to serve its citizens in all their needs, but it must not interfere with their private lives. Citizens in this constant interaction with their country and elected political elites have the right to require the highest level of service and transparent achievement and to ensure equal conditions in meeting their own ambitions. But they also have responsibility for their country and by constantly questioning the correctness of their decision made in the elections it corrects public criticism... With these specific laws, these criticisms in their climates are realised at public gatherings. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not wanting to pollemize with reasons for the ban on gathering in St. I support Mark's definitely opening St. John's Square. Mark for public gatherings. I am not going in and it is not mine to enter security and assess the number of participants allowed, or limited number of participants to be determined by this law. I fully believe in the expert evaluation of the MUP. And finally, I would like to say that both this proposal and the amendments to the Law on Public Gathering prove that not all authorities are the same. It proves that this power is very different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11767	Thank you very much. The intention to stand up with a replica was reported by the esteemed Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11768	Here, let me get up. Mr. Vice President, Col. Blazekovic really does refer to this extensive philosophical-political tract as affirmative in connection with this law, but the law applies exclusively to one location, a certain time and a certain number of protesters. So he's not as universal as he was saying your affirmative speech that I respect. But in which you said Mark's square four times, in the end, St. John's Square. Mark. Well, given Don Ivan Grubisic's observation that it is St. Mark, not the square of the queen Mark, I would ask the participants of the debate to respect the official name – the square of St. Mark. ... Someone's turning off my microphone again. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] And I have a megaphone, so I'm going to use it in the future because that's what I was doing when HDZ was shutting down. So, the square is not Mark or Mark's square, it's St. John's Square. Mark, and it's not King Mark's square or his mother's square to repeat the Jerosim. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11769	The replica will be answered by the respected Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11770	Thank you. I apologize for turning off the microphone. It wasn't really my intention. I accidentally did it. My exposure was the way I think and the way I think it's appropriate both the situation and the subject. And I think the subject is much deeper. I repeat, I think the topic is much deeper than just opening up the possibility of protesting on Mark's market because the implications of the spread of freedom are always much greater than just passing an amendment to some law. I must admit, it's not on my mind to comment at all on any way of debate in this House, and I'm not going to tell you how many discussions make me feel.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11771	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Representative Blazekovic. You will now be replicated by the distinguished Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11772	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I was encouraged by your sentence in which you mentioned direct or direct democracy. It is certain that democracy is a process that has developed. It is certain that democracy needs, to that standard of democracy that we want, it will take a long time to achieve it. If we look at this development and the fact that, with time and human rights, they are getting more and more important, then especially in this regard of public gathering, which is also the case with us, we see progress. Of course, it is illusory to expect that this law will help, that it will help to achieve these goals on its own. Of course, there should be an education system involved, because we have seen in a series of protests that are boastful. Here mentioned, a facebook protest, that protesters often do not know how to articulate their views clearly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11773	And this replica will be answered by the respected Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11774	Thank you very much. My colleague, I'm afraid you didn't hear me very well. I haven't talked about direct democracy anywhere, because I have a slightly different view of direct democracy. I was talking about participatory democracy, which is that I believe that even after the election is over, neither those who voted for no, citizens who cast the ballot and voted for the position, have the right to simply give up their country and say they have completed their political participation process. And I think it's the state that, the whole state and the political elite, are the ones that must and must encourage further involvement in the development of the whole society as a whole. It's, so I don't think you've heard me completely and understood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11775	Thank you. At its 10 minutes, he will now use the respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11776	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, dear ministers. So here's this final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Assembly. I should, by all accounts, support, since I'm a participant in a lot of gatherings, protests. I myself in this market for protests when the Law on the Rights of Croatian Lawyers was at stake, when the rights of Croatian defenders were put on the other side of the agenda, when Croatian police officers were denied the right to work. 5,000 of them, when they were out of work, 1,500 were returned, 3500 were never returned. In the same square they were fenced in a cage as if they were wild beasts, even access was often impossible to bring them food and bonuses so that they could telephone and communicate with their family. They only asked for their rights, guaranteed by the Constitution, to work. The defenders sought their rights stemming from the law, which also denied them 3500 parents of the children of the dead, the disabled of the Homeland War. It was also denied the right arising from the law and all of this was obtained in subsequent sequence at the Administrative Courts. The state of Croatia paid huge money, only for these 3500 who were illegally fired from the MUP, I think somewhere around 3 billion total. For these others who were also disbursed in overtime, which were in areas of special state concern, which were for civilian clothing, more than 2 billion kunas were paid in court proceedings, or deals made in the final part. For this reason, protesting has its meaning in order to express civil freedoms to those who govern the state, i.e. The authorities. And I used those civil liberties as a defender, but today because of the specificity of this space I'm worried about whether and the security in this space can be satisfied. Since I saw in the last protests, which were called facebook protests, that here behind Basariček's when it came to Croatian police officers with a torn sign, it was not so simple anymore. That it has grown into a verse and almost anarchy and powerlessness, that it is an open attack on Croatian police officers has grown. I'm afraid it's difficult in this area to secure both the security and the health position of the protesters as well as the employees of all these institutions that are here. And also the hygienic conditions that should be met in this time that is limited through this. But this is also for me to remove the ban, but defining through another way and the number of participants as well as the hours that can be spent on Mark's square. It can also be prohibited by the decision of the minister and the assessment of the security services, as in some other articles of the law. So we are not too much, as you say we have given the will of Croatian citizens, because if it were found that there are reasons based on the likelihood that maintenance would lead to direct serious deaths from violence and other forms of serious disturbance of public order and peace, the event could be banned. If it had not been duly declared, it would not have been established by the director's office. The minister may also, by means of a decision or by an authorised official of the ministry, prohibit such a gathering if any of these are not done. We remember together on the waterfront when it was ordered that it be contained at all costs, when today our fellow parliamentary representative, as commander of the Alpha Special Forces, put a badge and a gun at the disposal of Minister Lucino and said he wouldn't... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And that he will not carry out such an order to disperse the protesters who supported the suspect and later convicted General Norac. Likewise, I would also be protesting today, I would do it on my own, with my defense association, with the disabled of the Homeland War if it were necessary. I believe that when solutions are found in the tolerance dialogue of all sides of the ruling, opposition, users of civil society and all those involved in the behaviour of the authorities, that there is no need to protest, there is no need to waste time, money. I believe that through these, the provision of protests in Mark's square, large police forces will be hired and that it will require additional, huge costs that will save in such a thin state budget. I believe that no one will come to Mark's square every morning to clap on the prime minister and ministers who come to the government's session. They will also not come and clap at those who, MPs of parliament, will vote on the HRT Act. It is also likely that those who have made a decision to increase VAT as well as those who have collected the price of gas. The same way they won't come clapping at those who sell the Post Office Bank. Similarly, there will be no support and applause for those who have not paid 50% of the incentives and the harvest is eventually. And it's illegal. I don't really know if this approval I should support him given what I said I was a participant in the protest and I was at Mark's square when he was a big defense protest. I was in Split, I was in some other places, I was walking around town. Yes, I've been a Protestant and a rebel before. Today I'm really thinking about whether Mark's square is the right place to protest to you. I should say on the side of the opposition it's great, at least we'll have a place to yell, throw, do things. However, I think that we are democratically mature today and that we should really think about all aspects that satisfy what I said and security and all the other aspects and most of the institutions that are. It means that in a democratic world as we see in our environment there are those countries that have arranged it also with 100 meters from Parliament's building. It is also in the Czech Republic, so it is also in some other countries in Slovakia at 50 m, in... 75, Greece at 200m, Austria at 300m, Turkey a mile. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now I wonder why they're different from us? Why is this democratic supplement much greater than the right in these countries? Why limit this little space to 1,500 people. How do we count them? Maybe you'll go through the counters for... those who are unemployed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Maybe that's how you plan to achieve the unemployment that is becoming more and more difficult for the Croatian state. I don't know how to ensure real order when I believe myself I wouldn't want to happen to the hysteria of the people that all these troubles that have happened through this whole time and from those of ours who have been insecure and robbed in the state register, even those of you who today want to fix something like this and create an even worse climate. When this hysteria comes, how is this little space going to be able to make it all go away? I saw when Facebook was a protest. Charges from all streets, regrouping, cops. I also saw them tear down the barricades and break windows in the government. They weren't defenders. They were hooligans. And when such hooligans are infiltrated into the real debilitated, decomposed, etc. It will be difficult to introduce order and control to make everything right. I think it's St. John's Square. Mark is not the right place unless you thought he should be clapped on by all the troubles.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11777	Thank you very much. There are four replicas reported for your exposure. First, a colleague named Shima Luchin came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11778	Thank you very much. My colleague Djakic, I don't know what it's like with you, but with me, credibility in politics as well as in life is the most important story. I don't know what you have. But you see interesting. I've now learned one fact that I've never known before, which is that HDZ has deceived 3,000 people, 3,000 police officers. In the 2003 campaign, you went to return all the police officers that were then forced out of the system by force in the coalition government. You said you'd bring them all back. You've brought back only 1,000, and you're not 3,000, but that might not be so much a problem if in the meantime you didn't have twice as many people admitted to the police. If you don't know today again like '99. Croatian police, Croatia has the most police officers in 100,000 inhabitants and the number of crimes. That's why the Ministry of the Interior today, that you've accumulated people there, cannot meet government guidelines on the use and rationalization of the budget. And one more thing. I think, however, that my freedom is greater if I have the right to come before the government on Mark's square and yell the government down, than if I have to shut myself home in a portent and yell the government down. Whomever it seemed demagogue as much as it didn't look. And third, please, so you should have more confidence in the Croatian police. Well, they're capable people. Unfortunately, their work is dangerous. He's often at risk. They're a repressive part of the state. I say dangerous work, unfortunately inadequately rewarded. Let's not take the Croatian police as an alibi that we can't hold an ordinary public gathering wherever it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11779	Thank you. We have an answer to your line, colleague Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11780	Thank you very much. Well, you know very well that I trust the Croatian police, and I absolutely don't. But I also trust the Croatian people who can be stronger than the police, who can tear down police cordons, and fences of police and do anything. And in that I believe that when the hysteria of the next plague comes to its peak that it can be catastrophic. As for the officers who were protesting, yes. 1500 were returned to work. The rest of them retired. They had no more conditions. After all those traumas they experienced, some died of stress and cancer. It's your work. These are your actions that you've done by firing 5,000 hours of overtime, areas of special state concern. Even today, here it is happening again, they don't have any fuel. It's a Croatian disgrace. It is a Croatian shame that the budget cannot provide a carpet insurance. You've provided for a variety of miracles that aren't fully enlightened, Mr. Lucin. But I'm the only one asking you, Vice President, I'm begging you...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11781	Comrade Lucin, please, you've had your chance in the replica. Excuse me, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11782	You remember when they didn't even have civilian clothes, when they didn't have for... clothes, when they didn't even have cars for service. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is how it happens today at the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of the Interior. That's sad. And that can't happen. Ministers can't be. It can't be that the police patrol doesn't have enough fuel. It was during Lucine. Don't let yourself do this.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11783	Thank you. We have another replica, colleague Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11784	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Coli Djakic, it is not good to swear on democracy, and when we talk about credibility, then we remember in 2010 when under the auspices of democracy leaders of today's Kukuriku coalition goes to Jelačić's place and signs that request for a union referendum. And what does he say to these unions today? Is that credibility? You won't get a Christmas card, you won't get a regression, we'll cut that supplement to your past work. And do you know what it means to cut back on past work with 0.5, 0.3 employees in the state administration where the average is about 20 years old? That's a 4% pay cut. When HDZ was in power, then it was blasphemy, and today, all of a sudden, the SDP in power is a concern for workers. Just Mr. Minister, how will you explain to your officers at 12 months that you don't have enough money to pay them? You want to let them protest, only they're far more than 1,500, far more. When a colleague Djakic was brought here, we warned them they didn't have enough sheep to do it. How will you explain to Croatian citizens when their first gas bill comes when the 12th month heat starts when they have to pay 400, 500 kuna more because it is true, it is not true increase of 20%. It also currents 20%. We can play the markets just to see what opportunities Croatian citizens have. Did you put them in that 1,500? They're far more than 1,500. A thousand times over 1,500. And it's kind of an act of democracy, stories of concern for this, I want this, we want what it is is simply a declaration act that Croatian citizens will not benefit from. At this point, I think Croatian citizens have far more problems than you have with the price hikes, with VAT. So where's the hack now? Where'd that crowbar go?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11785	It's time, fellow Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11786	You've raised VAT to 25% of people, and that's the problem, not what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11787	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11788	Mr. Vice President, here's a colleague of Shucker's, you've been well aware of all these plights that are being followed by the Croatian people, and that's why I'm afraid. I who would really support it because I like that square for protests, there's a place where you should as you say you tell those who don't do the right thing that's wrong. But be assured, this time I'm not up for it. I'm no longer for that kind of communication right here on Mark's square, but also for counting. I said the following, I'm not even into such demagogue tricks that are being established and on the other hand, the minister or officials who are authorized by the ministry are given the opportunity to ban the gatherings if they evaluate. If it considers that there is a reason to believe that maintenance would lead to direct and serious deaths from violence and other forms of serious disturbance of public order and peace. We have seen how those who are not satisfied with authority react. They pull out a traffic sign, hit a cop and don't answer for it. We've seen when tractors... on a police car, endanger four lives, reject a wheel on a car and pass without punishment. That's democracy? It's anarchy for me, and it can't happen on Mark's square or anywhere. Yes, it should be made clear what is wrong, it should be warned, it should be said that it is not right that Ferenčan was appointed to JANAF and has a first-degree verdict, that it is not right that this small became a minister and did not serve a military deadline, but was the director of that time and various other insubsidities that arise, and most of these are the ones that will suffer Croatian citizens again, which are electricity, gas, Post office bank, these are all these things that are like.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11789	... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11790	And I believe when you pass this law that they will be the first journalists in the square and protest.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11791	Thank you. We have another replica of counterpart Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11792	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I find it difficult to resist the challenge, not to replicate counsel Djakic. The truth is, you said at one point how you participated in the protests, how you were a rebel. And that's right. I also participated in protests but regardless of whether at that time he was in power of the SDP or HDZ. Then when I thought it was necessary to go to the protest. But I don't remember Mr. Djakic protesting when the verdict was issued to General Anti Gotovina and Mladen Markac, when General Djuro Brodarac died, I don't remember you protesting, but I remember you also inviting defense organizations not to respond to those protests. It is a shame that the Croatian citizens who participated in the facebook protest are called hooligans because they responded to the statement by the then minister of police and here today is the president of Mr. Karamark's party when he called them the Indians of Croatian citizens, then they were hooligans, and yet after a few minutes after that, you say that it is quite justified to show their dissatisfaction. Yeah, now probably in some protests if we could break through the police cordon that's now under the ministry here's the SDP's minister. I'm the last one to defend the SDP, but the truth does have to be told. And don't you, it would be good to think about it always before you say something to call on who and when he has the right to protest because you insulted Croatian citizens by calling them hooligans. That's not right.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11793	Thank you, fellow Buric. We have a response to the replica. A colleague, Josip Djakić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11794	Well, fellow Buric, you really don't know, you talk to me a lot of times like you do now. I personally called on all Croatian defenders, especially disabled people, to organise mass protests on support for General Anti Gotovina in all cities, centres of the county. That's what I signed, and I can get you that signature. And I was at a protest in Virovitica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11795	Please, colleague Buric, no trespasses, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11796	Comrade Buric, you are as intolerant as ever, boast as always. That's where I made my statement, in tears I made a statement here on the steps of this House. How can you not be ashamed to lie? So there's a recording that she recorded? When I left the assembly and made a statement here in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11797	You're breaking the Rules of Procedure, I give you my warning. Comrade Djakic, please proceed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11798	So everything I've done in my life I've done honestly in the interests of both Croatian people and Croatian defenders, so who today. And I say that this demagogue approach to amendments and additions to the Law on Protests will certainly not bring any greater freedoms and rights as it wishes to be shown. I told the hooligans about the guy who picked up, pulled out a traffic sign and ran into a cop I could call that a hooligan, just like the one who threw the stones into the government window. I called you hooligans, and I stand behind it, not all those who protested. Those who protested their satisfaction with the current authority of the people who were shouting, singing, Scanning, that is, a democratic way. Insinuation of police forces that have had their duties can certainly be called hooliganism and barbarism.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11799	Thank you. And the last replica, Representative Boris Blazekovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11800	Thank you very much. I think this law is really just one in a series of laws, and it will take a lot more to bring, in order to regulate democratic stability and raise democratic awareness in this country. But I'd just like to say one thing to the public that I think is just as important, which is that this is an amendment to the Law on Public Meeting. It is that it involves not only a demonstration but includes any other manifestations of public gathering in St. Mark's Square. It is that there can also be a concert at last of Zagreb's Philharmonic Philharmonic or some other respected ensemble. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11801	Thank you, too. We have an answer, Josip Djakic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11802	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, of course, the protest is a democratic right guaranteed by our Constitution and can be held where it is really necessary for those to whom it is directed to hear and understand it well. I will repeat once again that indeed Mark's square is a narrowed area where cultural values are and where a certain number of people can certainly be gathered but it will certainly not express that critical mass that could be in Ban Jelačić Square or that could be on the Split coast. This has certainly been done in order for those who wish to support the current government to come clapping during the day, to welcome them, to send them out of applause for all that has been done. I would like to say that in this legislative proposal, again, what remains is the current right of the minister and ministry officials to ban the protest if they have such indications that it could endanger security, human lives and others. Therefore, my colleague, I am for rights and freedoms, but they should be tailored and used not to become anarchy and to be similar in our environment. This Parliament must make decisions that are such that Croatian citizens are in a position to use them and to live better and better. We cannot protect those who want to bribe judges who want to do something illegal and cannot certainly allow such rights and freedoms stemming from democracy to become anarchy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11803	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Next up is Representative Zvonko Milas. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11804	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I believe that no man, so no one in this assembly essentially likes bans, but we must have some control in life, starting with family and beyond. And so this law, which was founded by the Constitutional Court's decision, I think that the intensity of the motionor is what the committee also said, to reconcile the right to gather, protect and function the institutions of the Government, the Parliament and the Constitutional Court. In St. John's Square. Marka has five institutions, so they are the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia, the Government, the Constitutional Court, but also the City Assembly and the Church of St. Mark. Legal solutions or specifically border belts 90 m Government and Parliament, 20 The Constitutional Court will ensure the functioning of these three institutions, however, I wonder how the City Assembly, which I think is also very important for the functioning of this city, and thus also the state as a whole, will function. And what will happen to the service, or service, that is, in the Church of St. Marka, whether protesters will be able to go to mass at the same time, be at the protest, whether it will somehow be regulated simply to allow the normal functioning of what is happening there. This law, which is called the Law on Public Assembly, speaks more of bans again, of restrictions. He is therefore more in the function of controlling this gathering than in the function of freedom of protest. If there is a limited time of protest, the number of protesters, if those with the most difficult forms of disability, so to paraplegics, etc. He says that the entrance from Stone Street will allow them to come to Mark's square, and I don't know how or how they'll get to Mark's square. So if they can't be allowed access, so the right to protest, then it's simply not freedom of protest. It's a ban again, these are restrictions, therefore, not what we're talking about. It's a democracy on a drop. And all those restrictions and controls they're falling for, to the Croatian police. Not in the sense that the Croatian police are unable to control it, that they are not able to regulate it, but the architecture itself, approaches Mark's square, we have already witnessed, we have had the opportunity to watch the protests, there will be another situation, do not let God where things will have to be dealt with by force, so again through the media there will be Croatian police repressing the Croatian people. Do we need that? Either we allow a protest or we ban it. And the floscule that in Mark's square that this is the right place where the message will come to the ear of the address, etc., so I wonder if then the ones from Palagrega that something comes to the ear of the address must come to Mark's square or if they protest at the Palagruge that it will not come to the ear of government and government. I think we'd better focus on the laws that will bring us jobs, a better life, because otherwise soon we won't have to worry about protests at all. Our young will be gone, our old men are here, and we will soon be in years when we will not be able to climb any hill, no matter what. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11805	Thank you. We have one replica, Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11806	Thank you very much. Replication at the last minute of my colleague Milas. Well, actually, your debate has moved me to think about how we're going to treat, say, a gathering of citizens at midnight at the church of St. Mark, for example.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11807	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Milas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11808	Well, my colleague Grubisic, I don't know if it's a ban between 8 and 22 at midnight, I guess the legislator will tell us if it's going to the Christmas party - the birth of Jesus or something else.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11809	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Representative Tomislav Zhagar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11810	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I will try to look back in my presentation at the essence of this proposed amendment to the Law on Public Assembly. As one of the fundamental rights and freedoms of public assembly, a series of international legal documents and national constitutions are guaranteed. The basic issues raised as a basis for amending and supplementing the Law on Public Assembly refer to the following: the link between the right to a public gathering and a peaceful protest with freedom of expression, the problem of space intended for the maintenance of public gathering and constitutional provisions of its restrictions on prohibition, prevention and interruption. The right to a public gathering should not be seen exclusively as an instrument of extraordinary or crisis repression of a particular dissatisfied social minority but above all as one of the fundamental human rights and freedoms that are quite appropriate for the conduct of a certain democratically articulated public debate. The idea of human rights and fundamental freedoms is marked by a certain value-progressive development, but also by the fact that over time it is increasingly gaining importance that in the context of the right to public gathering clearly shows our case. In principle, we can conclude that, in a comparative way, either in a traditional context, the legal regulation of public gathering rights in the Republic follows the basic standards of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Freedoms. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia provides in its Articles 16 and 42 for the right to public gathering and peaceful protest in accordance with the law, but also for the protection of the freedoms and rights of other people, as well as legal order, public morality and health. The law on public gathering must respond to these two key requirements, which must not necessarily be contrary but as a relationship designed to achieve the best conditions for expressing certain views and opinions and to establish an appropriate dialogue, but in an entirely safe environment in which the right of public gathering also takes its prominent place. The right to a public gathering certainly does not fall within the category of absolutely protected fundamental human rights and freedoms, and as such is subject to the constitutional criteria of valid restrictions. In this regard, the Law on Public Assembly itself must respect a certain category of space where it can be implemented. Because of the speciality and uniqueness of the square of St. Marka in Zagreb, whose right to a public gathering is directly linked to freedom of expression, which includes, among other things, the right to express disagreements with state or public policy at all. In accordance with this and for addresses which are sent messages contained in a peaceful protest, and expressed through a public gathering in the nature of things are also the highest state institutions of government. So we must bear in mind that every public dialogue in which participants are far from each other is potentially at risk of a certain ineffectiveness. By observing the existing legal solution in this matter, we can draw a few conclusions. In the segment of public gathering and peaceful protest, we can conclude that the Law on Public Assembly is in principle not problematic due to objective basic elements of the application, short deadlines and the fact that for a number of situations the application does not have to be adapted at all. What could only be problematic is the fact that the application must also include the purpose of maintaining public gathering and peaceful protest. In this way, we could argue that on the one hand it enters the area of freedom of expression and the content of public gathering while on the other hand it is quite clear that such an indication of the purpose of public gathering serves as one of the parameters of assessment of safety risks based on which it can be decided on a possible ban. In any event, a certain balancing process in this regard seems inevitable, but nevertheless, with a note of how a public gathering and a peaceful protest combined with freedom of expression directly points to the necessity of applying certain increased standards of administrative assessment and judicial oversight. The ban on public gathering and a peaceful protest relating to the space around the places in which they are located or held most of the institutions of state authorities except their spatial element in relation to the distance of 100 metres contains and numbers in relation to any number of participants. The most important is, of course, the content aspect of this ban, which stems from the very existing law prohibiting any organised gathering held for public expression and promotion of political, social and national beliefs and objectives. This latest circumstance is crucial for assessing the constitutionality of this part of the existing Public Assembly Act. According to the position of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, legal assumptions for the maintenance of public gatherings near the seat of the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia may be stricter than the general assumptions that apply to public gatherings at other sites in the Republic of Croatia. They may refer to the position of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia both in time and in the manner of public gatherings, including the number of participants within the area concerned, provided that restrictions remain within the limits of proportionality and necessity. It is clear from the following that the amendments to the Law on Public Assembly are very welcome. They, we can say, have managed to balance the requirements regarding freedom of expression and the principles of security and to reconcile several opposing rights. While believing that the quantitative assessment in relation to the spatial, time and numerical framework is well balanced, with a specific reference to eradicating the provisions under which a peaceful protest could be considered a gathering and less than 20 people, I believe that these and these amendments to the law should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11811	Thank you, too. We're moving forward with an individual debate. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11812	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In 2005 it was passed a law prescribed by that prime minister who is now, and here we often see him in court proceedings, so on. "el blasphemy no. 1. ", the first el blasphemy, who forbade gatherings and protests in the square of St. Mark. This legislative proposal is clear and loud to say progress and something to say and to expect in some way for all citizens who love and who feel democratically and think about progress. But progress allowing public gatherings and protests in the square of St. Mark with certain limitations. The restrictions refer to the number of protesters, and it is 1500, in place, so the location is the square of St. Mark and the south side of 10 meters from the Parliament and the Government and 20, and in fact 40 meters from the Constitutional Court when we add up the width of the main church of St. Mark. And time, therefore, as a limiting factor, is from 8 to 22 hours plus another 4 and limiting factor, which is the pathways to St. Mark. These restrictions, which are prescribed by this law, and that is, a legal proposal, could actually be avoided. I repeat how I can avoid, so there is, can be avoided so that, without any restrictions, parliamentary representatives, then members of the Government of Ministers and all others, as well as those of the City of Zagreb City Assembly, as mentioned by colleagues Milas and City City of Zagreb, who are close to the Chirilomethodska street to go among those citizens who protest. Which is why someone, as Milas of Palagregue said, would come to St. Marka, someone from Okucan, Cag, Shagovina, Pirar, Zdenac, Brod's klekočevnik, Beravac, Struzan our villages in our Slavonia, which is in the most difficult economic situation as Slavonia and Baranja and Srijem exist. Which is why he would come to St. John's Square. Mark when he has his ministers from the neighborhood, when he has his deputy ministers, when he has members of the government and members of the parliament. Well, if they are to say and lead politics properly, if they have nothing on their conscience, let them appear at the citizens' rally and protests in all these environments. It's easier for him once, or for two to come to the House than for five hundred people to come from Okucana, or for our farmers, warlords, peasants who have to come to tractors, not just to St. John's Square. Mark, but before Dukat, Ministry of Agriculture, etc. All places considered relevant to hold a protest. Again, it is a very regrettable fact that none of these I have spoken of has appeared before the workers of Kamenski, and a sad fact, a very regrettable fact, which is here in Zagreb, right here, according to the Črnomerec factory Kamensko, as far as I know. Near the ministries even, some ministries. But what it's all about is whether the conscience is really clear that a man could appear in front of the milkmen, in front of the workers of Kamenski, in front of the workers of Dalmatia wine, in front of the workers of the Adriatic, in front of the shipbuilding site. It can hardly appear, or appear, but if you have intentions that are not just so-called. bankruptcy, rather than restructuring and helping these workers, help in these situations. When the state could intervene, if it wanted, and it could intervene. And I know still the data when you could save Dalmatia wine and a series of other companies, but good. Unfortunately, someone doesn't have such ideas, nor does he have such desires. That's why this legal proposal that I say, as I said in the introduction when I spoke on behalf of the club, that a small shift in relation to the small clear that in relation to the 0 we had, therefore without the right to gather on Mark's square, in St. John's Square. Mark. This is indeed one shift, but these restrictions that I spoke about in the introduction of this debate, therefore personal, are individual issues and we should discuss them also today, in particular. Mostly, because the protest, I won't say that it's hard to control, or it can be understood, so administratively at 8 to 22. Who will manage to say 10 o'clock buy your props, your inscriptions, your pens, your toilets or I don't know what, and you can go at 22 o'clock, and in the morning at 8:00 you can come back again. Or will be applied so-called. as counterpart Brkic Millian said, the phasing out of force, or gradually applied force. It is a very convenient expression of the gradual application of force. I've felt it both gradually and intermittently, and since 71, several times more, already. So this law that's ahead of us, I'm saying that G is an improvement, but these restrictions that I've been talking about are questionable and in any case the law is to accept as one step forward, as one step forward, but these limits still need to be discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11813	Thank you, too. We have reported two replicas. Representative Branko Vuksic first called. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11814	... My colleague Grubisic fully agrees with you on the time limit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In fact, the time limit is the most obvious, it's the most risky. What the police will do when the protests are over, it's easy with these protests when two hours, three hours, 30, 40 people arrive. When there will be 1,500 people, when they will be asked to be a little sarcastic, place more in St. Mark and when it's going to be a pretty awkward situation. And when the protesters refuse to leave Mark's square, that's what's going to happen. Will the police then use the sniffs, will the police then arrest, will the police then, what will the police do then, is it foreseen? And that's easy to predict, because it won't be all peaceful protest, or demonstrations. God forbid there is no reason for demonstrations, no demonstrations, but this is a different solution, not with this law, but with a better life, a better situation in Croatia, lower taxes, lower prices, etc. So I'd really like the minister to talk to us about answering some of the questions we've asked. So we need to predict how to prevent or to reduce, because absolutely certainly when demonstrations are, we see in far more democratic countries of Western Europe than we are, that such situations occur. And such situations should be predicted that there would be no too much violence, and that there would be no God of blood. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11815	Thank you, too. We have a response to the replica. Here you go, buddy Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11816	Thank you very much. Your colleague Vuksic was well told where you were lucky that there was no need to protest in Mark's square at all. I wish that program was 21 that he didn't have the highest reach for this bill, but what they actually promised in the election campaign. Then a man would really expect that there would be no fierce protests in Mark's square. Unfortunately, it's more than obvious there will be. And as for the procedure after the 22 hours prescribed here is the minister, so don't ask me. There is Minister Ostojic who will probably explain the matter if such a situation occurs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11817	Thank you. And we have another replica, Drazen Djurovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11818	Thank you. Well, you also reminded me of the time frame for holding protests. It's not the same whether it's summer or winter. Well, here's 35 degrees outside. It's 13 o'clock. This is a time when a protest cannot be held, no matter how intense it may be, for example. And let's say 12 months is an optimal moment. So, let's say at a time of great heat, whatever the protests are, whatever people are gathering for will be gathered before the evening. Thus, perhaps during the summer season, it should have been thought that, for example, the allowed time would be extended. And here comes some of us mention a hot fall. If that fall is hot not only politically, but the meteorological people will gather here about eight o'clock in the evening and it will be too short a time to 22 o'clock. So here's an idea for the legislator to consider extending that deadline to 24 hours during the summer reckoning of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11819	Thank you. We have a response to the replica of his colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11820	Comrade Djurovic, you are young, but I remember in '71. a year when we did not ask as students and members of the Croatian Spring, nor the Minister nor the late Bakarić until we will protest on the then Square of the Republic, or today's Elačić Square, or we were interested in that. If I say so, and young people when they are 19, 20 years old, it's usually the kind of generation they've been thinking about, then this 22-hour measure won't be as much as a colleague Vuksic said and assume it won't be so respected. What? So respected and respected as the law predicts. And this winter and summer reckoning of time won't be decisive at all if the protesters with their demands, with what they want to achieve, there won't be a time of protest possible only by force, and then by what breeds, by whom the nuns.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11821	Thank you very much. And last reported for individual debate by colleagues Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11822	Honored Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister. I think that too much of the Croatian public bothers us with these side issues that I think could have been solved in seven days. This way, extending the agenda to autumn, I suppose, because the Prime Minister obviously does not want to appear in front of the Croatian people, but in the Parliament. I don't know, we can complement the agenda to infinity, I guess, just so he doesn't show up here. But what's there is. I think this bill is bad and this is... In fact, the paradox that the opposition now defends or suggests that there is no gathering, and the government says let them gather here. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So what's that for? I won't defend myself. I mean, that's the law, or I won't even stretch it. But who wants to gather, let them gather. I'm just missing one thing here. And this is a recommendation to Mr. Secretary. I would never sign the law as it is and the proposal for the simple reason that the life of a Croatian citizen is at risk at a certain point. Yeah, yeah. And that's the point of the problem, and that's what Mrs. Sobol said on behalf of the SDP club that when they already warned themselves that there was not only political but that there are some other problems that talk about that there shouldn't be a gathering here. So, with everything that's been said that I wouldn't repeat, we have to ask ourselves, Mr. Minister, what is a negative scenario. The negative scenario in this case is that there can be 10 or 15000 people here at the moment when they come looking for your departure because of your unhappiness, etc. Governments and that those at 10 meters can put Moljet's cocktail into Parliament and set the government and Parliament on fire. And that the police must intervene, because the government and the Parliament are burning, because life is at risk in one way. In the event of this police intervention, there is a stampede. Do you gentlemen know what a stampede is? That's where people die when there's a fire in the theater, in the cinema and in the other closed spaces. This is a closed area. And that's what the police can't provide, they can't provide safety to the citizens for life in the event of such mass protests. And you can tell the public, but you can only protest one sentence but on personal responsibility for your life. Whoever wanted to protest in smaller groups or individually regardless of this law was on Mark's square, they shared lenses, transparent etc. Let's not talk about it. That's what this assembly of Parliament won't solve with this new law, and that's the question that's going to remain after us. And when we're gone, we'll be drinking these songs that there's no police who can guarantee security in these situations. And that's what's on our conscience. But I was a little distracted by the invitation to fulfill, the promise to keep this promise before the election. Who are you gentlemen talking to? Which you do. I'm asking you gentlemen from SDP and Kukuriku coalition if you're keeping your promise when you're raising VAT, so you're picking up life and you're de facto introducing inflation on a small door. Did you fulfill your pre-election promises when you raised the price of electricity, thus directly lowering the standard of citizens. Did you keep your promises when you raised the price of gas directly endangering the threatened standard of the Croatian population anyway? Did you fulfill your pre-election promises, did you say that you would introduce the air tax that we breathe, did you keep your promises when you started destroying agriculture. Do you keep those promises when you're destroying a farm that's on our flimsy feet anyway? Gentlemen, do you keep your promises when you reduce the growth of gross social product and reduce the growth of social gross social product daily? Do you keep the gentlemen's promises when you've increased and you increase unemployment from day to day? Gentlemen, have you fulfilled your promises when you reduce your daily employment? Gentlemen, have you fulfilled and fulfilled your promises when you are and when you increase Croatia's responsibility. Do you keep your promises when you have practically led your policy to a decline in production activities in all sectors? Gentlemen, did you keep your promises when you spoke about decentralisation and decentralisation in a way that you passed the cost on to the cities to the municipalities, and the central government is even stronger and centralized by the state? Gentlemen, do you keep your promises when you say that Croatia needs the skills and not the like, and now you name it similar and it publicly says that these are politically similar people and that's why we put them in without a competition? Have you fulfilled those promises or are you lying to the Croatian people? I think you're lying facelessly because you're doing this facelessly and shamelessly regardless of what you've been saying publicly. So do you keep your promises when you're getting into the state service of people without competitions and you've already advocated a contest? Do you keep your promises and did you say that when you take workers right to Christmas Day, the right to an annual vacation fee? Do you keep your promise when you lift the right to past work, so you recognize older people for what they've been doing for 20, 30, 40 years? No, you don't, you who are 55 in the same practical position as that rookie. Gentlemen, do you keep your promises?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11823	Comrade Marasovic, please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11824	... in Croatia, 90% of the citizens who have declared themselves believers, not only as Catholics, were Orthodox to whom we take off our hat, Islam or Jews. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] But President Milanovic, by abolishing the religious ceremony on protocol, the protocol is not his private front, but the state protocol.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11825	I asked my colleague Marasovic to... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11826	Gentlemen it's the return of the church to the walls in four walls church, it's the return of the church from the streets... and to the church. That means tomorrow the President of the Parliament will say, I don't need a cardinal here because this is a state ceremony. That means tomorrow he has the right to tell the Prime Minister that we don't need church or church dignitaries.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11827	Do not stick to the topic of the agenda of your colleague Marasovic. I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11828	You can, Mr. Vice President, the others have been calling for the fulfillment of their promises, and I'm calling for the fulfillment of the promise. But what I'm saying is that this government and this government lied in the election campaign, and that nothing works out of it, but that they do everything the other way around from what they said in the election campaign and that the results are nothing. But I haven't yet, there's another 20, 30 points to 10 minutes, I guess I'll read them somehow. Did you keep your promises when you said you wanted public television?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11829	My colleague, Marasovic, has been hurt by the Rules of Procedure the second time, I give you a reminder by taking away the words.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11830	Okay, thank you. When you want party TV, did you keep your promises? Thank you very much. And that's what I'm going to do at the second point.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11831	We have reports of replicas. The first one came from a representative of Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11832	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, I reported it because my colleague Marasovic mentioned me but I'm afraid he didn't quite understand what I said by arguing on behalf of the club. So I want to do it again. So that, as the SDP at the time of the amendments to the law in 2005, we were responsible for the opposition, and when the changes were discussed, we respected the need to meet the security aspects of the gathering in St. Mark. But even then, I stress that in 2005 we were against the ban on gathering, and we felt that it was also a direct violation of the Constitution and the rights of citizens to gather and express protests. So today in power we are returning citizens to the right to gather and express protests in St. Mark, and we believe that through this bill we have found a good way to reconcile two important aspects that this law must satisfy. On the one hand, security conditions and enabling the work of the highest state institutions and, on the other hand, the constitutional right of citizens to public gathering and protest. The SDP's position was the same in 2005 and today.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11833	Thank you. I made a mistake in the process, the first was the correction of the incorrect quote, counterpart Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11834	Thank you very much. Here's a colleague said, he mentioned a negative scenario as a consequence of the application of this law, and it's not the first one, so I'm responding. A colleague named Djakic used to say something similar. As far as negative scenarios are concerned, they are possible regardless of the law. Mass gatherings, mass protests, mass arrivals on the market are possible regardless of the law. And since I already have the opportunity to correct that incorrect quote, I'd like to touch on the subject that my colleague here has been pushing for pre-election promises. I think the most important pre-election promise we've fulfilled is that you're no longer in power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11835	Thank you, too. Just a moment, just to clarify, an apology to my colleague Marasovic. I should not have allowed any replication since my colleague Marasovic lost his word. I will give you the opportunity to respond to the first replica after I have allowed the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11836	Oh, Mrs. Sobol, I don't want to rephrase to her, but I don't know his last name I didn't follow. I didn't say there would be mass protests.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11837	You can respond to the replica of your colleague Marasovic. Please respond to the replica, I've allowed you to do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11838	So do I have the right to respond to a gentleman's replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11839	No, no, to correcting an incorrect quote. You cannot use the replica institute. Only you can do Mrs. Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11840	Then Mrs. Sobol, we all know what this is about. It's just that there are really technical problems and not technical reasons... security reasons. There's a possibility of endangering a man's life here. And we're all here in some way pretending like it doesn't exist. And you want to get some points, political points, that's what we really need to say. Then let's let the protesters in here without any restrictions, 2m so I can come to the Parliament and what we're talking about or stick to this law. And look around the world, your colleagues have been saying how far up to the fence or that you can camp next to the White House fence, yes. But how far from the fence to the White House? So you know how many of these people in Europe when they meet us for telling us stories here, and we have to dance about how they play, you can't get miles near where they meet. By other civil states of Europe and the world you can't come to the government building and practically in a negative scenario. When someone wants to execute a coup, they send 300 men here. 100 he sends to the Parliament, 100 to the government, 100 there, and he makes a coup. Let's say that's a negative scenario. But I'm not in favor of the ban, I'm in favour of letting the people into Mark's square, but to tell him we can't guarantee security.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11841	Thank you. I hope there won't be any examples like this in the future. My colleague Lovrin, you've given up...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11842	Mr. Vice President, I'm giving up because you've already corrected what's been hurt.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11843	Thank you. So the replicators do not have the option because it would not be correct for a colleague, Marasovic, when I took his word away. This is what we're done with the reported... I took the word of my colleague Marasović and by the logic of things, the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure cannot be answered by a colleague Marasovic in your line. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And since I was wrong, I hurt the Rules of Procedure, let's just say, I let Mrs. Sobol answer, and I let my colleague Marasovic know that we balance the situation. I'm saying, I hope there won't be such a situation in the future that I have to take my word for it. So I appeal to you all together and please. With this, we have exhausted the report and I give the final word to the minister, Mr. Ostojić. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11844	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. I have listened carefully to all the discussions that have been discussed today regarding the amendments to the Law on Public Collection and Complementary, and I will try in some way to go through everything that was in the debate, try to give answers that are important to the public as well as to the public because I think there have been a lot of doubts that deserve to be expressed in the Croatian Parliament immediately. Of course, there are security reasons that are pointed out in the beginning that this is about important institutions that have their own order, protocol, work and must be protected, and we did not hide that the interest was precisely to ensure that these institutions can work normally, regardless of whether public protests will be held in St. John's Square. Mark. The experience also tells, or history, and it has nothing to do with which government, there have been attempts at breaking into the Parliament, there have been blocking approaches, there have been disabling regular work. All this was happening right here in the square, which is both clear and logical, given that these were addresses according to which they were targeted messages, dissatisfaction. But I might remind you of something that was very recent, that means Radic's street, a situation where we had a protest in which the thugs attacked the police at the entrances of Radic's street. That could have happened here near the Parliament, could have happened on any part. For these reasons, it is important that we regulate things exactly by law and to find a measure between freedom, between democracy, the right to public expression and what can guarantee security both for those who work in those institutions and for those who have the right to protest. I must say at first, therefore, that there is no story of a peaceful, restless protest but can only be a peaceful protest. So right now, let's get this straight. This is not at all the subject of today's debate in the House because it is clearly defined by the Law on Police Powers and this law that we are talking about today about amendments and additions, as well as the Law on Public Order and Peace in how it is handled if there is violence and there is a very simple and clear matter. And I will try to explain to all those who have repeatedly voiced doubts about what in a situation that violates public order and peace or that they do not respect the provisions of the Law on Public Assembly. The situation is the same as the variant that, let's say, MP Marasovic disobeyed the Vice-President of the Parliament, the Assembly Guard would come and act on the Rules of Procedure. So the same thing the police conduct is governed by law and, of course, if the organizer can't lead the order of the gathering, which I mention is that they are above all.... It's something that's very important to say. The organiser of a public gathering is the one who assumes responsibility for this gathering being made in accordance with the law, in accordance with all that is in the approval issued by the police administration responsible for this public gathering. Of course, in Zagreb it is the Zagreb Police Administration. I'm saying all this for a reason why we keep talking about police obligations. The police are the last ones to come, the police are the ones dealing with consequences in a situation where the law is not respected. And that is why, in some way, this important law, because I claim that it is important and that it is not a matter of pre-election promise, because if there were no decision of the Constitutional Court, surely the ruling coalition or Kukuriku would have changed this law and made sure that the opportunity for people to return here with these restrictions would certainly have been sent their message to any authority. Of course, this is not about a group of tourists who will, say, count 1,500 people like a little cartoon about these things, as were asked technical questions about whether they would be able to come up with a climber. Well, of course, as people will first arrive at the access points of Cyrilmethodski with some tram to Ban Jelačić Square, so they're coming up next to these. So I was glad that things actually came down to the technical issues that were regulated by law and that they take place daily at various public gatherings every day. Of course, the organizer will be able to set up his own announcement, of course he will be able to bring refreshment because it is regulated by a law called the Law on Public Assembly and implies the co-operation of the organizer with the one giving him approval. Therefore, these things do not need to be expressed as suspicion at all. And what we wanted to define was precisely related to people with disabilities so that there would be no confusion, although, of course, it is a practice that in all of these cases, as well as in public events, football games, even where it is not possible, it is resolved precisely in one correct cooperation between public gathering organizers or public events and the police and so far we have no objections. But since there was an insistence I think it was done correctly, the approach was made in a way that could be reached in the nearest position with the car. Why not Mesnik, why not Radicov? For the reason that we are going back to the beginning, which is to ensure the smooth work of institutions, as well as citizens in those approaches, so that it can be driven, and it is ensured that the same thing that would be made from the Mesna Street, a track access for people with disabilities, of course, to the Stone Doors and then the same movement in the Square as the usual thing for all others who would be at the protest. I know that perhaps the idea that some might have some evil intentions about possible similar variants as it was with archaeological excavations that might have served to avoid protests in Mark's square and even to prevent such potential evil intentions then I must say that it can't happen now when we're talking about a limitation between 8 and 22 hours that a group of archeological excavation lovers decide to spend summer in Mark's square to orderly request it to have a group of so many people and that no one can protest anymore. This is one of the reasons why such a variant cannot be made with the outstanding reasons that I have spoken about both the sanitary and other conditions which, of course, a longer-term stay in such a place would certainly be disabled. We are sure that through this time and through orderly approval with the police administration, this measure can be found to send a message regardless of the lengthy protests, and especially this idea that was related to any tent settlements or such, because in the end it would come to us that we might think here in the Parliament, too, people would settle during the protests overnight. I think it's unnecessary and that the cartoonation is about those things that are things, which is a public protest organised, agreed, co-operation with the police, and I believe that it can be made and be a further step in democracy and building exactly what is contrary to Dr. Marasovica, which is that we are constantly talking about possible violence, about a possible negative scenario or not giving God a threat to life. That's exactly what the arguments were when we ran the number. So the 1500-square number allowed for institutions to do this was done precisely by the profession, that means the police, how many people can be on Mark's square during the protests, and that there are no risks to their lives for the reason that this space limits, or enables there to be as many and as many people on it. Anyone else who wouldn't be on it, of course, where they are? They're on approach. So, it's Cyrillic Met Street. It's just saying that it's not intentional to set up that agency as it was mentioned for the count of potential protesters because we're going to go back to the beginning for the organiser's sake. It is the organizer who, of course, gets a message from these amendments to the law that if it is a protest that provides for more people then it cannot be done in the area of Mark's square not because we wanted it but because there are no conditions that can ensure that public gathering takes place safely. And of course there are spaces that are regulated also by law in all places in the Republic of Croatia, it is exactly written where they can be maintained. This square isn't a solution made just to put 10 meters from 100 meters, I must also remind it. For the reason that 100 meters ruled out the possibility of it being on Mark's square. So it wasn't 50 meters, it was 100 meters from all these institutions, which through one variant ensured that there couldn't be a protest on Mark's square, and these 10 meters would be a situation just to ensure the functioning of the institutions that are here. Also, the provision that the people of the profession, meaning the urbanists in Zagreb, marked the space had just gone to the point that everyone who has the right to a public protest, who was granted permission to be approved for protesting on Mark's square, knows exactly what his right is in which no one can endanger it. And that only under special conditions, we are now coming to the part where it was quoted that everyone in Croatia has the right to a peaceful gathering and public protest. But there goes a second sentence, unless it's legally restricted. Therefore, when constitutional provisions are quoted, I would ask that, until the end, the very ones quoted are the ones that were what we were handling in the making of this law. After 22 hours of not repeating the same situation as here in the Parliament, which means daily conduct in Croatia takes place daily hundreds of public gatherings, public events and the law clearly defines what if someone exceeds the approval issued, etc., of course the police will do so. I also have to say that these ideas were creative, which were with all due respect to the law of every parliamentary representative on these hockey changes of a type of 1500 people, and 1500 others and so on, and I have to say that we have been taking this bill seriously and we know clearly what we're talking about, and I don't think we should play with these figures. They were made with pure intent and a message to the organizer to stick to the one where the police can guarantee the safety that no threat to life occurs, that no problem can we do this job in. As far as the president's availability is concerned, I must also say that this thing is also defined by this law. It is clearly written in the Law of Public Gathering that I do not now quote it is an article, just a second, here is article 11, which defines exactly where public gathering can be held. So today's conversation is exactly today about St. John's Square. Mark, not about somewhere else. As far as more democracy on the dropper is concerned, I must only conclude that the story of democracy is very clear and that this question is whether or not it will be possible to hold a protest, I will quote exactly the words of Mr Brkic Millian, who welcomed the opening and who, in fact, in some way aware of the fact that 7 or 8 years that the ban has been denied one of the fundamental and most important rights in the Republic, which is the right to publicly protest in this particular place and that peace has been preserved under the windows of the ruling party. What is also about midnight and those things that were mentioned, of course it has nothing to do with public gatherings or something that should even be commented here because these things are regulated by other provisions and other laws. And about returning to Mark's square and the very democracy of public gathering rights I will somehow bring to an end this conversation, which is that I will return to the most important things, and that is that we have really respected the public debate and all the suggestions that were. We believe that we have found exactly the measure between preserving the security of the possible endangerment of the institutions of the people who work in them, the very symbols that exist, and that is the institution of the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government, the Constitutional Court. On the other hand, people get the right to protest. And finally about the political evaluations that were given because I have repeatedly mentioned here of course as a representative of the government, which is, could this be solved within seven days, yes. Mr. Marasovic has just stated that it could have been dealt with urgently, but we wanted to respect the democratic procedure and the demands of civil society to discuss this issue seriously. You know that there have been earlier and more restrictive proposals, so they are respected, and I think that this debate led to the conclusion that we are proposing a law that has precisely achieved its goal in this part, which is that St. Mark's reopening for public protest. On the other hand, to ensure the work of institutions. I'd just say, since I have no intention of responding to those political assessments that were, of course, used during all this. I know that my generation wasn't, as the Internet says, we were reading comics, so I had that Commander Mark, the wolves from Sontari, and there was that sad owl Indian. And among other things, that wise Indian said one sentence that I think is important, it's, "That a real warrior doesn't look back at frog crack.". Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11845	Thank you, too. Mr. Minister, this is where we've finished the debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11846	The following is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Assembly, P.Z. No. 58. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Human Rights, the rights of national minorities, the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists. I'd like a representative of the Ministry of the Interior, Mr. Ranko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11847	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Amendment number one Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourers – parties of work relating to...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11848	Please let me lead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11849	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11850	Please, let's go in order. Amendment of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. We can plead. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11851	Dear Mr. Vice President, so the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the remark was about accessing the surrounding road across the Mesnica Street. The amendment shall not be accepted by the Proposer. We believe that a complete solution for people with disabilities and persons with difficulty in moving who want a peaceful gathering and public protest in the square of St. Mark enabled through the entrance from Stone Street.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11852	Thank you very much. I'd like a representative of the board, chairman of the committee of Honored Representative Furi Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11853	Yeah, since that's the board's position, then I have to put it to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11854	I ask that we make a statement about the amendment of the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities that the Government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Please state the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers. Amendment number one to Article one.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11855	Amendment of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourers – party of work relating to the time limit of 8,00-22,00 hours. The amendment is not accepted. The proposal remains at its position on the time limit and considers that the proposed restriction is justified for the very purpose of giving instructions to the addressees of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian Parliament, the Constitutional Court at the time these institutions meet and make decisions. And also to allow other stakeholders to use the above-mentioned space to highlight their social, national and other interests and objectives. The reasons for the time limit are in particular the space in terms of its historical, cultural significance and related rights, the interests of other citizens in achieving their interests as well as the need to carry out municipal activities, interests of tourism importance, and others where this restriction remains within the limits of proportionality. The proposer also considers that this law as a whole, this law takes full account of the position of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, which is to which restrictions can be applied both on time and on the place and on the number of people, and to be within the limits of proportionality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11856	Thank you very much. Representative of the Croatian Labour Club, Honored Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11857	One reason why you do not accept this amendment is to quote you ministers, a limit of 8 to 22 hours to allow other interested parties to organise a public gathering in the same place. When? After 10:00? And the next day! It is true, then, that the Constitutional Court has given its opinion that it can also be limited by time. However, you did not state any valid reason other than perhaps the cleaning service of St. Mark as a communal reason. This restriction that you have predicted and its abolition is actually not in the function of the freedom of citizens and the right to public gathering, but only goes in favour of the easier work of the repressive apparatus. So, the police. Nothing else. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11858	I ask who is for amendment number one on article one of the Croatian Labour Representatives Clubs? The amendment didn't get the required majority. The government's relationship to amendment two to an article by one of the Croatian Labour Representatives' Clubs?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11859	The amendment has the same content as the amendment of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. The amendment is not accepted with the same explanation, which is that we remain at the stand that the direction of arrival from Stone Street is sufficient when it comes to accessing persons with disabilities and persons with difficulty in moving to the place of protest in St. Mark.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11860	Representative, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11861	Thank you very much. The people in the wheelchair, the difficulty in moving along your interpretation, do not have the civil right to go to St. John's Square. Marks come in a car accompanied by, say, a person. Is that a security problem? Is that a traffic jam? Is it thousands of people? So, you don't want to make minimum concessions to that population, you're forcing them through the Stone Door just to make it easier for the police to edit anything else. If that's what you said, I'd understand. I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11862	We'll vote on the amendment. Who is for this amendment that the Government does not accept? The amendment didn't get the required majority. I'm closing the debate. Thank you very much, Minister. And I am voting on the final draft of the law. In accordance with Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament for Law-Making requires most of the votes of all MPs, meaning 76 votes. I'm asking who's in. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 90 votes in favour, 26 against and 1 abstentions are the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11863	We move to a new agenda point, that is: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Household Act. The deputy minister will be given an opening statement and then we'll have a break by 15.00 hours. Let me just keep going. The proposal, proposed by the law, is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You have received the proposal in boxes, in accordance with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings. And amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Health and Social Care. You received the reports at the session. I'd like to ask Deputy Minister, Mr. Ledinsky, introducing. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11864	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. I am pleased to see that in front of the proposer of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Household of the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth. I can hope in several sentences to present an extremely important law that allows the welfare system not only to assume that fostering services are further developed, but that the services of foster care that are extremely endangered under the current legislation. At this point, they survive with a perspective that they can develop very well. Namely, the current 2011 Household Act, which entered into force on 10 August 2011, arranged this as I said an extremely important area. The social care system itself is defined by the Social Care Act, which adopted this meeting of the Croatian Parliament in March 2012 as a fundamental law governing the activity of social care. Foster care is a substitute, family care for a child or an adult who cannot achieve his or her own needs in his or her own family. This important fact has also guided us in the proposal, and in this proposal, the amendment of the Household Act. The application of the Household Act and its implementing rules must therefore be brought into line with our basic law, the Social Care Act. It is also necessary to harmonise the provisions of the household law relating to the procedure for the exercise of rights relating to services outside the institution's care in the foster family. Based on which the amount of foster care is determined, and other important issues related to the provision of foster care. In the context of the reform of the social care system, special attention is given to encouraging and developing outside of institutional services and improving fostering, and in particular the accommodation of children in the foster family. And although more and more education standards need to be pursued, future foster parents say that of 12 European countries, only 1 country prescribes a certain and completed degree of expertise, while in other countries there are no prescribed conditions related to the educational status of foster parents. They are already primarily required by the foster parents to possess the specific knowledge and skills needed to care for a child. To that end, the level of education from secondary school to primary school education is reduced. Similarly, during the application of the Household Act, problems were identified which primarily relate to the complexity of the process of exercising the right to grant a household permit. Therefore, the procedure of our proposal has been significantly simplified, especially in the case of family foster care, which introduces an accelerated procedure for granting foster licenses. In order to ensure further care in the foster family in the best interests of young, adult people who are not able to get a job after school. The proposed changes extend the accommodation in the foster family and one year after the completion of schooling, in case the user cannot be employed and thus recognises the current situation in society and wants to enable these young people to get their own way out, a sort of break and a kind of opportunity for independence. The applicable law for the first time introduced professional foster care for the most demanding needs of users. However, this example shows that if one praises a valuable idea, does not prepare quality, not all pre-conditions from financial, professional and implementing. That it's possible that one great idea at the wrong time, and in the wrong way, in the wrong place, is not successfully realized. We therefore estimate that it is not possible for this kind of foster care to be fulfilled at the moment, therefore such appropriate post-op and financial assumptions, but we are already ready to prepare everything that is needed for professional foster care to come to life tomorrow as a valuable and important category of social services. The proposed changes allow the age difference between the foster child and the foster child to be less than prescribed for reasons justified. An upper age limit is also introduced for foster parents in such a way that the foster parent cannot be a person over 60 years of age except when it comes to family members. The proposal also allows a single foster parent to care for up to two children, not just as it has been in the case of brothers and sisters. Since the Social Care Act is a uniquely regulated issue of the network of all social services in the field of the Republic of Croatia, which includes, of course, foster services of the Household Law, it is not necessary to regulate the issue of the host network and it is proposed that they should not be subject to this law. The amendments to the laws that we propose today are part of the criminal provisions proposed to be deleted because it is estimated that they do not, by nature and weight, subject to criminal and legal liability in particular and for the reason that part of those provisions applies to the obligations of the foster parents contained in the foster contract as mandatory legal relations. And to sum up, and this example of the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Household Act, we have convinced that the quality indicator is in which time and in what way the Ministry of Social, Policy and Youth, which is responsible for those socially most vulnerable groups, is timely in order to protect these people in the most qualitative way possible because they have the least time and the fastest they are exposed to different risks. In front of the promoter, I am convinced that this bill, as I said at the outset, not only protect foster care as one of the most valuable, human and necessary forms of social services and social care, we are already providing quality assumptions for the development of this foster care and for those we talk about most often, and often with words we need to move on to actions, so our users of all age groups, and we are particularly focused on children where urgent quality and rapid response is needed in the shortest time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11865	Thank you, Deputy Minister, Mr. Ledinsky. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations of your exposure. Representative Darko Milinović. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11866	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would correct Mr. Ledinsky's incorrect claim that the existing law put the foster care institute at risk. On the contrary. We have provided funding for professional foster parents with a new law in force in the temporary financing of 2012, and we see in the new budget that a new budget has been adopted that these funds are almost cut by half. I also cannot agree with the fact that this new bill promotes fostering this more as you return some old provisions such as the Institute of Solutions, and the solution as a result of the administrative dispute always leads to the prolonging of application, and by excluding the manual as a tool for rapid application of social law is particularly dangerous in fostering children, especially what we have in the current law that we must implement, which is the EU's guideline. and I think it will also be part of the EU monitoring motive for foster care where we went from zero to three years because we went to deinstitutionalisation. [[Intruder: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11867	Thank you, colleague Milinovic. ... Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] If I don't open the debate, I'll set a recess by 3:00. We start at 3:00 a.m. with a club debate. Thank you. We're going back to work. On behalf of HNS representative Sonja König. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11869	Thank you very much, Vice President. Ministry representatives, a few colleagues and colleagues. Four kids about the same age that they call us mom and dad is really an unusual sight. They often ask us surprisingly if they are all yours, and I answer with pride in my eyes. It's the story of one of the foster parents who unfortunately in our country is getting smaller every year. Despite the fact that in our country, the first written traces of foster care date back to 1902, despite the fact that in 2007 we passed the Household Law, despite the existence of numerous foster associations, a series of regulations and hundreds of professional and scientific works, the number of foster parents and their users is increasing each year. People still experience foster care as something strange, prejudice still exists, and those involved in the adoption process say they are often left to themselves, that adoption procedures are long and difficult. Hostage is a great responsibility, but also a great challenge. It's actually about one of the most important and most human tasks a man can do. In most cases, foster parents speak of foster care as a task that is not easy, but is extremely fulfilling and inspiring, making them proud and content. It is a highly noble but extremely responsible decision that changes and touches many lives. In that decision whether to become and remain a foster parent is essential, of course, the existence of institutions and the adoption of laws. And this law is important that we're talking about today, so the Household Act. We at the HNS Club think that this law will make the adoption of this proposed Household Act easier, and the whole process speeds up and that is why we will support the adoption of this proposed Household Act. This law will therefore simplify and speed up the adoption process, and what is considered particularly important by the CNS will also increase the number of those who can be fosterers. In fact, the existing law of a person who wants to conduct foster care must have completed at least high school education. So far, we have denied a large number of our citizens the opportunity to become foster parents because about a fifth of Croatian citizens have completed only or completed primary education. With this new proposal, we are also expanding the possibility of foster care to several hundred thousand of our citizens. We believe that this is a major and good shift compared to the old, or existing Household Law. In fact, the practice in the Republic of Croatia shows that higher or higher education does not always guarantee better care for the user or users. Although it is necessary to pursue the higher educational standard of future foster parents and education is certainly welcome, we know that a doctorate or a master's degree does not mean love, we know that a doctorate or a master's degree does not mean understanding, we know that a doctorate or a master's degree does not mean responsibility. We are therefore convinced that by increasing the number of those who can host, the number of foster parents will increase. It simply requires a healthy logic. Research shows that the quality of support and better availability and cooperation of institutions responsible for foster care, sensitivity and professional relationship of professionals with foster parents are linked to their remainder in the foster role. Therefore, we also find it particularly important that the law determines the obligation of each social care centre to organise a telephone that will be at the service of all the foster parents and their users 24 hours a day for 7 days a week. The need for deinstitutionalisation of child care is highlighted in the last 20 years across Europe and the world. Accordingly, in 2007 our Ministry of Health and Social Welfare also adopted a strategic document under the title "The Plan for Deinstitutionalisation and Transformation of Homes of Social Care and Other Legal Persons performing the Social Care Activity in the Republic of Croatia". This plan, written on the 57 pages of the text, is set to change the ratio of institutional and non-institutional care by 2016 in such a way that 20% of users are in institutional forms of care, and 80% in non-institutional forms of accommodation for children and youth, which means that by 2016 most children and young people should actually be fostered or adopted. The implementation of this plan will depend on the consistent application of the Social Care Act, the popularisation of foster care, and this law that we are talking about today. The implementation of this plan will also depend on us making decisions, and we in the HNS are convinced that this law will increase the number of foster parents, and thus reduce the number of users in institutional forms of care. The proposed law, with the aim of further encouraging fostering foster care, also introduces the possibility of granting recognition for every 10 years of providing services in foster care. European experience has shown that to promote foster care is most effective when current foster parents promote foster care in their environment, but also in the media. Therefore, in the media, as well as in any other issue of our society, it is a great responsibility, but also a great opportunity for our public to get to know the foster home and the nobility of the foster home. And from this place you should say thank you to all the foster parents, thank you for your hard work and the engagement you spend daily so that every child lives in a healthy environment and family. We at the HNS Club are confident that in that choice, in that human call this proposed law will help you and that is why we will vote for it and support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11870	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club Romana Jerkovic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11871	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a law that regulates a very, very important segment of social care and care for children and young people. This is a law that is closely linked to the fundamental Law of Social Welfare, which we changed in March this year and the amendments to that law and the need for harmonisation are actually the reason for today's debate. Although fostering in some regions of the Republic of Croatia has a long tradition, we still have to admit that all these years, we have failed to fully develop this system. So the proposal that came in 2011 by the previous government, the Household Law, was actually how to say welcome. It wasn't a question of whether we needed such a law. Both the profession and the policy were truly agreeable in one, which is that it is necessary by law to regulate the foster care system in the Republic of Croatia, that it is necessary to create all assumptions, all the preconditions that fosterhood develops in all parts of the country for the benefit of children and for the benefit of the entire Croatian society. One very bad trend, one change the trend simply had to stop. This trend, which is unfortunately still present today, refers to the number of household users who fall year after year. It does not go in the direction of deinstitutionalisation, which we talk about so much and so often as a great need. We should strive to achieve what is also in the National Plan for Children's Rights and Interests, which is that 80% of children should be in foster families and 20% of all institutions, i.e. institutions. So we are far from it, but we need to pursue that goal, and we absolutely need to work on it. It's been almost a year since this law was applied. It may not be much, but we at the club think it is enough to give one assessment in which segments there is bad or no implementation, whether the law fulfils its purpose, our goal, whether it represents a quality instrument in achieving what ultimately the law is passed. Is the law helping to develop fosterhood in the Republic of Croatia and that the country's general fostering system is developing and changing in a positive way. The criticism of this law in the process of its adoption was indeed very much and by the profession, here I mean the Alliance of Hosts, both by politics and by the general public, and the essence of these criticisms concerned the inability to implement it. There is no doubt that we need quality solutions, but we also need to take care of those solutions that we propose are feasible. I think it's as important as being quality. So the current law has shortcomings in the context of what I'm talking about, and I can give you very specific examples. So, we didn't have a number of my colleagues from the SDP club that on the board that agreed at the plenary session that we had to develop a network of foster parents. But he also expressed his suspicion that we would achieve this among other things by determining the professional arrangement that the traditional fosterer must have. We warned that by law, many traditional foster parents would find themselves in a very awkward position and that a good number of them would lose their license. We said it wouldn't be good because they do what they do first qualityly, and secondly, the number of foster parents will drop drastically. And did what we talked about finally come true? Unfortunately, yes. The second example refers to professional foster parents, and again we at the SDP club agreed that the introduction of this type of foster care is valuable. So objectively, the Republic of Croatia has a need for this kind of foster home, and on the other hand there are such good examples of good practice in our immediate surroundings, without talking about EU countries. So we thought it just needed to be copied. However, we also warned that almost everything in Article 16 of the existing law, so what concerns professional fostering, is wrong. So it is wrong to ask that a professional foster parent must be an expert in the field of social work or a logod or rehabilitating educator. So the law asked for a high professional preparation which was to make things worse related to the deficit profession. In other words, the legislator expected in some ways impossible. That the deficit profession will in some ways rush to work as a professional foster parent and for less wages than I can do by doing in my profession. This, therefore, was extremely unrealistic and professionally prepared with the condition of foster care that is such as must not be an obstacle. We also need to spread foster care, not the existing quality foster parents, to lose what has finally started to happen. It is difficult to disagree with the fact that one child with disabilities is not needed, or that it is difficult to agree that he needs very professional and educated help. But why, for example. We pointed out that in the debate on the Household Act, why, for example, You couldn't be a nurse? We thought it was absurd. How many parents have children with disabilities and are left alone to care for without anyone’s help in having a higher education, not at all having any medical knowledge or education. And of course it's not even necessary to be a quality foster parent. So if a child’s mother with a severe disability can do all of this on her own without other people’s help, then a valid question arises, for example. It couldn't have been a nurse or a medical technician? We warned of unnecessary rigorous conditions, which few will be able to satisfy and we pointed to possible consequences if they persisted in such conditions for professional foster parents. And yet unfortunately, we were right. Professional foster parents have never really been true and alive. The law had a lot of illogicalness as well as that professional foster parents could work part-time somewhere else, so only half the time was actually a foster home. That implicated, of course, and that the fee she receives is she in half the time. So, a professional foster parent who should be a substitute parent has a working time. It's from our position at the SDP club not acceptable either then and today. A biological parent simply doesn’t have a working time, he takes care of his child 24 hours a day, and a replacement parent cannot be brought into the situation in which the existing law has brought him. Therefore, the existing law did not allow for positive steps in the context of the number of foster parents, in the context of reducing the number of children, in institutions, and these were ultimately two key objectives. Besides, not even a so-called. the reform of social care, neither the reform nor the laws passed in the past term have provided workers, i.e. professionals working in welfare centres with better working conditions. After all these years, after all the millions of euros the former government received for social care reform, which we don't even know where they went today. It is justified to ask how we can expect the employees of the centre today to do such a big job that involves so much different, from promoting foster care, to sensitizing the public, recruiting, selecting potential foster parents, processing them, issuing permits, not talking about the work they have with children and their biological parents. So, with a bunch of powers like this and a lack of professional labour in the centers. That was just impossible. And therefore, we at the SDP club are quite clear that reform laws of social care are needed. This law wasn't reform law, it wasn't even the law we discussed in March this year. Both that and this law are adopted by an urgent procedure, and I stress that the search for a profession in this case is a major pressure for fostering associations to ensure that quality reform laws are adopted in a transitional period and try to correct the illogicality. Therefore, we at the SPD club support the hasty adoption of this transitional solution and we are sure it will facilitate the work on the ground. Finally, the SDP club also submitted an amendment to Article 19 of the existing law on who cannot be a foster parent. We believe that if this amendment of the SDP Club is accepted, this article will be clearer and will be unequivocal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11872	Thank you, too. On your exhibit, we have two corrections to the incorrect assumption. The first one was represented by Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11873	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Members Jerkovic, you incorrectly stated that the existing law did not allow positive steps, that is incorrect. I personally testify from my county once and for all with a positive step. In fact, we have often talked about domestic violence in the past few days when the prosecutor's report on gender equality. So there's a specialized foster home where the violence in the family could have been placed in foster care, and we made this one model thanks to the existing law. You are now terminating this, so that Article 10(2), where it is said to abolish this possibility of fostering it in order to be placed in institutions. This is not feasible because such interventions always require urgency, urgency, rapid response and quality approach. I think there's a big mistake in that part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11874	Thank you. The next correction to the incorrect quote by Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11875	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here is a colleague, Jerkovic, mentioned how some passed legal solutions were a problem for the work of the director of the social care center, etc. However, this is incorrect, in fact, the problem was in these recent changes when we heard here from Deputy Minister Ledinski that these changes that were previously used only to name new administrations and new directors of the welfare center. He specifically said, here's to the case of Lug Samoborski that this would be the case, that it would not be used to change the law to replace him. But what happened? A week after these changes, a man's been replaced. I'm surprised at that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11876	Comrade Stier, colleague Stier is no correction, that's an opinion. Here you will have, you will have an opportunity to discuss.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11877	Okay, but it turns out it's not really a problem with the director's work.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11878	Please, you're done. Thank you. Next up for debate on behalf of the HDSSB club representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11879	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Croatian Parliament, Assistant Minister... MPs and MPs. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] I don't know if I've noticed correctly if this is the first proposal that comes from the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth in six months. Were there any other legal proposals? This proposal is an amendment to the Household Act, covering quite a number of amendments and additions. The question is, maybe that's what it was supposed to be, why is it going through the emergency procedure now? We don't see exactly why it's going. A large number of changes are now going according to emergency procedures. The law is pretty much changing, quite quickly in the emergency procedure, maybe it should have gone with the new law. The Deputy Minister quickly read this to us in the summer before lunch from an assessment of the state of the proposal of the Minister's Law. The time to consult with those people in Slavonia who are working on this problem was relatively small. We've tried to actually how much we've actually arrived, so I think these are major changes to the law. These are not some amendments to one or two articles, and I don't see at all why it wasn't in two readings if it was already about such extensive amendments to the law. And why the time has not actually been given to consult a little more, and I will try to point to some of us the weaknesses and illogicalities that stem from these amendments to the law. So, which is good or so far seems to be good and acceptable in this proposal, which is a accelerated and simplified process for family foster care, which introduces this category of professional foster care for the most demanding needs of users. Now the definition of traditional foster care has been expanded to minor pregnant women, pregnant women with one or more children up to 7 years of age, to a underage mother with a child, underage parents with a child if their parenting is strengthened in this way and if they do not have family support. I don't know if there are any projections of what that coverage means, what number of users could even be affected by such an extension of the definition. As regards also, the criteria for foster parents are downgraded from the level of a third degree of secondary education of the foster parent to the level of primary school education in the foster home. We've contacted people who work and they say it's usually going to make it easier for most foster parents, because a good part of the foster home doesn't meet the criteria that they have some three degrees of high school as a minimum. This argument that in 12 countries it is not a criterion of Europe why 12 countries, which 12 countries do not mean that in those 12 countries as in Croatia, 60% of foster parents have primary education or foster foster parents. By the principle of primary school education and my late grandmother could be foster parents and she was let me simplify my grandmother. And there was the mass of these grandmothers in the fifties, in the 1960s, in the 1970s, by the villages. It was a tradition. They were fostering these little children that parents either left or came from broken families. But the real question is whether or not we were, the other were living conditions, the other were the criteria of our relationship with the child. The question is whether at this point we can really accept as a criterion for the foster parent as a minimum criterion for having basic school education, regardless of what will make it easier for us and increase the number of potential foster parents. I don't mean to insult anyone, but the situation has changed. It can't be like the middle of the 1960s or the '70s fostering children in the country, that that child there in the country was simply one of those five that they had, sixth, seventh or eighth lived with them. They all ate from one bowl. They went together, they wrote from the table, I think, and that's how it worked. In today’s day, however, these criteria have materially agreed, and the question is whether we are really improving the possibility of fostering or, in some ways, because we are more easily retinated by the criteria of foster education. And I think we should think about it a little bit more, and that's why it would be a good thing that there was a possibility that this law would go into two degrees. I'm saying, on the one hand, we're going to make this easier because we have a lot of people in small communities, in villages, in a pore of rural communities that will take over those children. But on the other hand, we will not be sure to follow the European trend as suggested in the proposal. What is also for us in Article 20 introduces the possibility that the age limit between the foster child and the foster child may be less than 20 years if it is in the interest of the foster child. In my explanation, I think it states that if certain criteria are met but it is not visible which criteria should be met in order for that limit to be acceptable, the difference of less than 20 years between the foster child and the foster child to be acceptable. What are these criteria, and what are these criteria? And what is, in fact, the most controversial in this proposal, and these are the changes in Article 19 paragraph 1 of subparagraph 3 which were actually about those conditions that excluded the possibility of someone becoming a foster parent, or some kind of criminal liability and remained where, in the present proposal, according to our opinion, the current law significantly better protected the rights of the child and prevented any adverse events in relations with the fosterer than is the case in the current bill of law in which it stands. Here we can read it all, which states that foster care cannot be carried out in a family where a foster parent and a family member, a person who has been socially unacceptable in the last three years prior to the application for renewal of foster care has been legally convicted of a crime against life and body, freedom of human rights, citizens and others. Therefore, the criteria of condemnation for the last three years prior to the submission of applications for foster care. In the previous law, it was not that period of three years, but if someone was convicted of being a banal paedophile, it permanently prevented him and prevented him from becoming a foster parent. If he was a domestic bully and was convicted of it, if he was a drug addict, if he was a chronic alcoholic, we think that these provisions, in fact, that establish some period of just three years, will not be sufficiently protective of those children. I'm talking about fostering children in the front row. We see that the SDP club, which we got now on the benches 10 minutes ago, actually gave an amendment that is still proposing additions and amendments to this article, but I don't think that these changes and additions are actually going to be satisfactory and that it should have been more restrictive. And it would also be good to hear the proponent's explanation of why it was going to change so far's restrictions on their mitigation, so the deputy minister didn't say in any way why the changes were going at all. In which they did not meet these restrictions toward foster parents and why these restrictions were going to acquiescate with foster parents. So, finally, what's the emergency here? Why is he giving in this way? That remains unclear to us. And therefore, the defiance of good wishes perhaps to propose the HDSSB club in this way will not support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11880	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club of Representative Sunchana Glavak. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11881	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. We too do not have any reasonable or reasonable reasons for the further urgency of the procedure at the HDZ Club, and a lot of ambiguity has been presented in these proposals, which I will explain a little more in detail. Most of the time, this bill is currently in line with the Household Act with the new Social Care Act. According to the Social Care Act, the jurisdiction of the social care institution in the procedure for the exercise of social care rights has been amended in such a way that the jobs of social services will be carried out through the termination of those institutions by social care centres. It is also necessary to comply with the provisions of the Household Act relating to the procedure for the exercise of rights relating to services outside the institution's care in the foster family. Then the basics on the basis of which the amount of household leave is determined and other issues related to the provision of foster care. Some solutions proposed by this bill such as simplifying the procedure for obtaining a solution to do foster care or extending the accommodation of younger minors in the foster family and one year after completing schooling, of course in case they can't find a job when they can't get a job are welcome. However, some of the proposed solutions as well as the reasons for their proposal are at least questionable and I will single out the following. It is said that although it is necessary to pursue a higher educational standard for future foster parents and according to the results of research from 12 European countries, only one country has been mentioned here to prescribe a certain degree of expertise, while there are no prescribed conditions for the approved status of foster parents in other countries, it is asked the fosterer to possess the specific knowledge and skills necessary for child care. It is also said that practice in the Republic of Croatia shows that completed secondary education does not always guarantee better care for the user but other characteristics of the foster parent. And it said that the said goal is to reduce the level of education from secondary school to primary school education. Therefore, although the higher educational standard of foster parents should be pursued, the condition of the degree of education is reduced. The explanation that such a provision exists only in one European country or that the existence of a higher degree of education does not provide for a greater quality of care does not seem sufficient to abolish the existing provision. Equally, funds are not provided and something is done for the additional education of the foster parents that they should certainly have. Pulling the parallel in such a way that we can say that the existence of a higher degree of education is not a guarantee for a better performance of any other job. We can equally ask ourselves a question for anything, and in that case, we can cancel the conditions of education. As foster care in the Republic of Croatia is unevenly widespread and is largely organised in rural areas where a significant number of foster parents without qualifications are required for employment practices has shown that in some motivations for foster care, we need to make it clear that they are focused on cash compensation or given the symbolic foster benefits some foster parents use supplies intended for users to partially settle their needs. When I talk about unbalanced householding, I'll just say it's much less in Dalmatia, and most developed, for example, in Varazdinska, Koprivnica-križevci, Međimurje County. So I will mention the example of Međimurje who developed foster care strongly at the very top of the Republic of Croatia as much as 84 foster families for children and 38 foster families for older and powerless. However, there are no families to care for young adult patients with mental illness, no family to care for adults. No one has succeeded or been able to take an interest in this specific area since there are no subsidies from other institutions, therefore, from hospitals, doctors of general practice, and let's face it, foster parents cannot deal with the problems that such individuals require, for example, after psychiatric treatment. There are also no foster parents who would take care of children with major behavioral disorders because there is also not enough professional support. As far as today's situation in the Republic of Croatia is concerned, except for the number of foster parents with incomplete or completed primary school makes more than 52% of foster parents. And if we add to that the largest number of foster parents for children 50 to 60 years of age, so they correspond to the status of grandparents to those children. It is clear that the standards of foster care for children are reduced and that this category is not able to deal with all the challenges of fostering or possess the specific skills needed to care for children because we are mostly talking about children without adequate parental care, abused and neglected children, children with developmental difficulties, children with behavioral problems. Practice shows that because of the specific needs of these children of lack of knowledge and the skills of the foster parents and because of lack of professional support, as I mentioned, some of the children are re-separated from foster families, they are again placed in homes, which of course was an additional trauma to them. As a result of all of the above, the current Household Act continued to increase quality standards in providing services by prescribing mid-professional equipment, i.e. certain professional fostering services provided for the most demanding needs of users. The proposal for a new law reduces these criteria again and directly corresponds to the foster parents, while not taking account primarily of the best interests of children to what they commit to us in the light of all the strategic documents that the Republic of Croatia is signatories to, as well as the Convention on the Rights of the Child. The applicable law for the first time introduced professional foster care. It is said now that it requires this complete arrangement, that it is currently not possible for this kind of foster care to meet the relevant procedural and financial assumptions, the proposer told us. Therefore, professional foster care is abolished even though it is assessed by a quality and good solution, with the reason that it is not possible to meet the conditions at this time. Is this bill showing that he strives for worse solutions although the quality and the good are already built into the law. In addition, the reason for the proposing that the introduction of professionalisation and requires a complete arrangement for which the assumptions are not met is incorrect because, in the process of harmonising and closing chapters with the European Union, the Republic of Croatia has brought a whole series of strategic documents, as well as a national deinstitutionalisation plan that obliges to close and reduce homes to a minimum, especially for children, while strengthening and encouraging all other forms of care, especially fostering fosterment. And it is incorrect, as we have heard here, that no means were provided for this purpose. The funds for this purpose were provided in the temporary budget for 2012 and homes for children with developmental difficulties, homes for children with behavioral problems, and that per child amounting to around 7,000 to 14000 kuna. And I am quite sure that it is possible to provide funds for this purpose by redistributing and reducing capacity, but we must also say and therefore simply lack political will. Why do we sign contracts, why does the Republic of Croatia sign contracts when we don't respect them in the end? The contracts we have signed we are obliged to honor, and we will see what the promoter will say when, in addition, we will see what it will say in the Commission's report when we do not meet these conditions. This isn't about surgery. Given the number, it doesn't change what we see in the proposal. It would have been better if we had all the law. That's what those who are dealing with or who are in the welfare system say, and to overlook the protection of children as we have heard, and colleagues from other clubs have noticed it, we are not now addressing the amendment to the protection of their rights, about their interests because this is a law that must only protect their interests. There is no doubt that foster care is necessary for society. There is no doubt that we at the HDZ Club consider it something valuable and good, but in this way this is difficult to accept. And in the end I'll say no good or bad children, there's only those who are encouraged or those who are discouraged. Because of them, we are obliged to make the world a better place, because of them we are obliged to pass laws that will benefit them, not to make transitional solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11882	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HSU Club, MP Vishny Fortuna. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11883	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I would refer to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Household Act, first of all to the reform of social care where special attention is given to the development of outside the institution and is exactly the fostering of one of the very, very important factors and forms of care in which it is actually much better than accommodation in the institution, accommodation facilities in the institutions in which it is really wanted, thinks about the quality of life of our children, but the foster care so far is too little, in fact, we have too little at the level of Croatia as a whole, and that is something that we are tasked with and the goal of foster care being much wider. I call immediately on our media to include themselves in the presentation of this very high-quality and important form of care and protection for our smallest and those who need it most. Why are we going through an emergency procedure, also because of the promotion of this very system of foster care and its uninterrupted functioning and as fast and quality as possible, a more unique procedure which now provides for more efficient and efficient and efficient care for the users, especially for children. In this way, the care of children and users is much better. I'd like to get to the existing adoption law first. It now prescribes a significantly different approach to foster care and the conditions of the implementation procedure for the issue of foster licenses, which in practice proved to be difficult to implement and harmonised. It brings positive perceived changes from the position of practice, and concerns the standards and principles of foster care specialized, urgent and occasional foster care which have encountered difficulties to be addressed in implementation. In addition, the new Social Care Act dictates the harmonisation of the two laws now in relation to terminology, in relation to jurisdiction and in relation to the rights of users. The interventions of the new adoption law have also been carried out in order to promote fosterhood which I initially said and highlighted and the development of foster care in those areas where it has not been sufficiently developed so far and is therefore an important item of educational status which, in my basic idea, is desirable, but is perceived as aggravating circumstances because it has questioned the survival of a large number of existing foster parents who do not have medium professional equipment. For this reason, this condition in the proposal is reduced to a lower level. I'd say here that there's been a lot of debates so far, we've been listening just now to the technical equipment, and is that the descent of that level of foster care to the lower and worse? No, it's not. This has shown experience and work so far. It's foster care, I won't connect it, but I'll remind you of being a parent, which means so is the foster parent. He must have hearts, he must love that child who, his child who will receive, and there is a very important supervision and there are very important professions, the competent Centre for Social Care that he is carrying out and will continue to monitor to see if this foster parent is really a foster parent who is in that period and parent to his child. So I would, too, if I didn't have that experience that I have said, as the predecessors have said so far, we're lowering the level of expertise and therefore quality. No, it's not the same here. Indeed, it is not the same, but I will add, therefore, to the education of the foster parents is not therefore neglected but a regular and basic education of the foster parents and their partners is envisaged. Now they're involved and together. And the number of hours from 40 is down here to 30 hours. And that's exactly what happened so that we don't have the foster parents that we have now and that are very high-quality and good boredom and we won't lose them. Because it's very important when you win and find it in the field, it's not an easy job, believe me, we need to protect and protect a good foster parent. And it is also these changes that have now taken place in relation to the educational profession, compared to the number of hours, education, etc. They happened in that section not to lose existing foster parents, and in the same way we get as many new foster foster parents as possible. It is a very important support for the foster parents, there is a very important monitoring of these foster parents, in fact support where they will share with the competent institutions, and there is the Centre for Social Care now, working together on the quality of the user who is actually in that foster home. In addition, I have now simplified the process for issuing the permission to the foster parents and adapted to the needs in such a way that the important moment of practice was taken into account and the issue of licences was conditional on the completion of the education that I was talking about which experts consider an important moment in creating a final opinion on the abilities of future foster parents. The duration of the foster leave is from 3 years to 5 years extended. Professional foster care is deleted in the bill because it has not yet come into practice, there are no prescribed conditions and moments, and the introduction of it is considered premature but not neglected. Professional foster care will certainly be something that will come back here on the benches in new proposals. Specialized foster care was an exaggerated general definition according to which almost all the foster parents were actually now specialized, and now in these new proposals there have been smaller interventions as well as in emergency foster care we have seen what we consider to be extremely important. Emergency foster care is important because it often happens in practice that the Centre for Social Care urgently needs to accommodate the child, at which point there is no accommodation capacity so that it can urgently accommodate the child, so this is also proposed. There's a club HSU going to have its own amendment. I would just like to remind the proposal for a new law is forecasting a 60-year limit for the launch of a foster care procedure with the exception of, of course, always relatives. Thus, it is also possible to extend the number of children for single foster parents from one to two children. A faster and more uniform transfer of foster care from a person who is a foster parent to a foster parent should the death of a foster parent occur in order to minimise the trauma of the user to meet all the conditions and final transfer of the permit to another family member. Furthermore, it is easier to negotiate with foster parents now with a single contract with foster parents, not for every user of boredom, as was the case with a special contract. And in relation to children who are leaving the foster care system, the best interests of the care system are in their interests, and in accordance with the individual plan, it is possible to stay in foster care for another year after schooling are completed, too, very important, so that during that year, they can either get a job or move on if it comes to schooling or at local levels to be further settled in residential communities, etc. So these are segments, I would like to stress that this is one of the very important forms of care, development outside the institution and club of HSU will support this proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Household Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11884	Thank you, too. We have on your exhibit a correction of an incorrect assumption. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11885	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, you've told your colleague Fortuna that a specialized foster home has encountered greater difficulties and that it needs to be repaired and improved if I understand correctly. Not true, specialized foster care has proved to be very successful. I am personally witnessing here from my county an example of domestic violence in the family where the project is a safe house in which the Committee for Gender Equality of the County of Koprivnica and the Centre for Social Care of Koprivnica and Đurđevac, Križevci and Koprivnica were involved. And in that part, you will not improve it but will be destroyed by this Article 10(2), which says there will be no specialised foster care but will continue to develop in the institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11886	Thank you. Next on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11887	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, dear ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. The responsible opposition we heard today warned in this same House almost a year ago about the traps and threats of the Household Act that then passed. We thought that foster care for 400, 500 kuna was not enough. That the amount of supplies for the child amounting from 1800 to 2000 kuna is very low and that it melts very quickly. It was also a grudge that social care centres find it difficult to say measures for the necessary separation of children from the family or for the need to deprive parental care, and there is a large black hole between centres and courts. Reluctances also went to a small number of educated foster parents, a small number of foster parents in urban areas. They asked how to foster a child under the age of 7 if there was no one? The objection was then also the speed of law making, that is, what they said was a lack of time for public and quality discussion. It was resented that the law did not answer the question of how to increase the number of foster parents, how to interest young people in this form of childcare, how to popularise foster care in regions that the institute still lacks recognition. And after a year, we have before us an amendment to the existing law in which we should get an answer to these questions, and all these questions how. When the Household Law was passed, two things caused real public enthusiasm. The first was the promise of the then leaders of the welfare administration, that they would finally be able to implement the plots on deinstitutionalisation of children up to 3 years and until the end of 2012. And suspend further accommodation of children up to 7 years in institutions. Another enthusiasm caused the introduction of professional foster care. Today, one year after the enthusiasm, we can only conclude that we once again had a blind belief and that the adoption of these new changes today by emergency procedure. Again we do, not only a mistake but again clearly hides some things that we should very much point out and talk loudly about. The reason why these amendments need to be adopted by an urgent procedure is explained by the applicant in the need for a valid Household Act to be brought into line with the new Social Care Act, which amends the jurisdiction of social care institutions in the procedure for the exercise of the right of that social care. In such a way that the tasks carried out by the Department of Social Care will be carried out by the centres by the end of that institution. And it could be quite easily voted, justifying such reasons, but why, by an urgent procedure, solve all these other proposals. As for the changes, they're related to a few things. Today we've heard about, those who spoke before me about the good things and the bad things of this bill, and I'm going to look back at some. Professional foster care is abolished by fostering children and young adults with additional needs, who stem from their level of functioning, such as children with major behavioral problems and or children and younger minors in conflict with the law. But these same children and youth who are in conflict with the law are deleted from specialized foster care. Unfortunately, we get a category of children and youth who must remain in institutions and youth that no one obviously wants. Last year's minor perpetrators were 3376 of whom 247 were girls. No proceedings were initiated against 2253, 244 were qualified insignificant, 149 had no reasonable doubt, 220 had been suspended, 65 had no evidence, 34 of them had been abandoned by the state's attorney, and 18 had been designated by the Social Care Centre. They were charged with 1804, of which 55 girls, were suspended before the council for 270, the state's attorney gave up sanctions for them 99, imposed sanctions on them in total 814. And of all these younger minors, there were 316 senior minors, 498. Breeding measures have been established for 316 of them, warning measures for 101 of them and enhanced surveillance measures for 141 persons, i.e. minors. Bureau measures are set for 46 of them. Knowing that these children tend to commit themselves to crime because of their own families' unsettled relations is really hard to believe that by proposing this Household Act on such children, it is not possible to meet this kind of foster care because it is stated in an explanation of the draft amendments to this law for this kind of foster care because of the procedural and financial assumption. In specialised foster care, care is also abolished for adult users, victims of domestic violence, with the reason that those users are more suitable for housing in welfare institutions. I warn this occasion of the problem of financing safe houses in the Republic of Croatia, whom we need to address as soon as possible. By safeguarding the state budget, we cannot ignore and must not ignore all those who need help. When your world collapses, when you're saving your life, then you need a safe home and you need an open door. The signed contracts must be respected and funds must be found to secure houses and finance. We are threatened by the collapse of the system, and then we will have not only an increase in domestic violence, but also an increase in the killings caused by domestic violence. So far, foster care has been impossible in case the foster parent or family member has been legally convicted in the last 10 years prior to the submission of a domestic application, and now that period has been reduced to 3 years. Not entering the legal structure of this article, and we have heard that there are several amendments submitted. All I'm going to say is how necessary it is to comply with this law with the Penal Code, and if nothing else, then in that part of rehab. A few things from the bill are commendable. We welcome how the Deputy Minister today said the introduction of a time out for those who have completed schooling, so a year of additional care for such a person. The state is certainly aware of the importance of foster care and the value of foster families, especially in that context that it is a cheaper and more quality form of accommodation for persons compared to accommodation in institutions. With that new law that was passed in 2007, much has been done since then to improve foster status and strengthen support for foster families. However, who professionalises the status of foster parents in Croatia, which would solve one of the key problems, which is the right of fosterers to health and pension insurance, so far there is no speech. The possibility of professionalisation has so far been discussed on several occasions, modelled by the experience of most Western European countries, including some of our neighbouring countries. Our foster parents themselves do not seem to be able to pay any contributions based on foster care, because enrolling interests for foster parents in the workbook is not possible yet. If I'm wrong, here's an apology and I'm asking the Minister to correct it. Today, Croatia has 2820 registered foster parents, and 51.8% of them care for children and youth while others care for adults and older people. The Ministry of Health has housed 5172 users from the social care system of which 2042 children and youngsters amounting to about 40% while older people remain. It just tells us that when we talk about the Household Law, however we think about children, we also have to think about those old ones. When it comes to children, most of them are children without adequate parental care, 65% of them and children without parents or parents who neglect or abuse their parental obligation, which actually means that foster parents replace their family and family environment. About 12.7% of children are children with physical or mental impairment, and 2.8% of children from socially endangered families whose parents cannot provide adequate care. Recruitment and retention of foster parents are certainly one of the most important keys to effective foster care. However, whenever any draft law or amendment of that law is passed, it is indeed a pity that such changes are followed by an emergency procedure for whatever reason because these emergency procedures do not in any case provide an answer to many of the questions that we must ask before the law is passed. Before recruiting, but the promotion itself should get insight into the current state. So where we are and exactly where we want to be. We also need to ask questions whose answers can lead to adequate methods and an effective plan and the same promotion that we advocate. How many foster parents do we have, and how many do we need? How many children do we expect in the next year? What kind of foster parents we have, and what kind of foster parents we want. For what reasons do we take away the permits from the foster parents? For what reasons do foster parents themselves not extend their permits? Where there have been errors in recruiting former foster parents and what should be a priority for the future. How have we recruited foster parents so far, and how have we shown ourselves to be the best? These are the questions to which a quality answer should surely be found to say that we have a good Household Act, and just here I am comforted that we have heard from the ruling that this is a transitional law, i.e. transitional amendments. We should have happy foster parents, happy users either young, or old ones, and whenever we make changes to this kind of proposal, then it would be really good to have our priority as the people for whom this law is done, not just the financial structure of the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11888	Thank you. We're done discussing clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate. First enlisted by representative Vanja Posavac. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11889	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President, the respected ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. I absolutely welcome these amendments and additions to the Household Act because I believe it will achieve a better solution to the family replacement care of children or adults who cannot achieve their own needs in their own family. The current law on foster care and its implementing rules should be brought into line with the new Social Care Act that we have adopted in this Croatian Assembly. Why the urgency? Well, since it's not an emergency, I think it's an emergency. First, because it has to comply with the Social Welfare Act. Secondly, we cannot wait for children or adults to wait for three, six months or a year to solve the issue in a quality way. I also absolutely agree that in the context of the reform of the social care system special attention should be paid to fostering and developing extra-institutional services and improving fostering, and in particular, the accommodation of children in foster families. The fact is that there were certain problems in the conduct of foster care, and the procedure was complicated, and there were some shortcomings throughout the story. When fostering children and adults, I really need to take care of a number of facts, but I don’t think there should be any additional and unnecessary complications. Amendments and additions to this Act will significantly simplify and speed up the procedure for granting a permit for foster care, and this is particularly important for family foster care. What I particularly support is the extension of accommodation in the foster family and one year after the completion of schooling in case the user cannot be employed. I know from my own experience that children who have finished school and lost their foster family have thus lost a very important primarily emotional support. This support is important to every child because it is a major change in life when a child moves from school to the world of work. It still needs help, it still needs support. Based on my experience as a long-term classroom, I have to say to this occasion that children who were placed in foster families really did fast during, especially during high school education so many results because this very foster family worked with them as their own children, that a child who, of course, I will not name with some poor three ended up in the second and third grade with a great and graduated with a great one. What happened later, unfortunately, was unable to stay in that foster family, and therefore I support this earnestly because housing communities are not particularly the solution that most children, especially children who have lived in difficult family conditions before, in their own family or children with special needs, and they are very much fostered. So, these kids, it's very important for them to stay for at least another year, so maybe later I'll think about it, and maybe a little bit longer because they're mostly finishing vocational schools means three years old and at that point they're underage. In addition, the provision on users of traditional foster care is complemented in a way that extends the circle of users in the section relating to, so to minor pregnant women, pregnant women with one or more children up to 7 years of age, etc. And I think that this will help young parents in need of support more easily and efficiently, and so far they have been in the category of specialized foster care which actually made it difficult to get foster care. The question of what makes a parent a good parent is also often asked? Is that money, professional preparing, a sense of responsibility? So we can ask ourselves about the foster home. What makes a foster parent a good foster parent? It's certainly not professionally prepared and it's not even money. I agree and support the provision that the foster parent must, of course, have a minimum primary education, and not as a minimum secondary school, because I believe that the provision in the case of foster care is not crucial. The provision that a foster child cannot be more than 60 years old except when it comes to a relative family I consider it good and, of course, it is already seen by this law that social care centres will be very serious and the fact that such a person must, of course, be mentally capable of taking care of the child. And finally, let me conclude, this Household Law will better address the issue of foster care which I believe is justified by an emergency procedure because children and adults cannot wait for our debates of controversy, proposals, but it is a matter that needs to be resolved as quickly as possible and I absolutely support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11890	Thank you, too. The next debate was registered by representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11891	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. The current Household Law prescribes some measures that simply did not follow the goal, and they did not pursue the goal of increasing the number of foster parents. Moreover, this Household Law was to be brought into line with the Social Care Act, and that is why all those who wonder why emergency procedures are so urgent. Hostage is a big responsibility, I think we can all agree on that, and on the other hand, it's a big challenge. When we talk about responsibility, then we are aware that foster parents receive children or adults, especially children who are certainly wounded, and the challenge is actually how to give life, how to re-inhale the life of such wounded children. In fact, all children who come into foster homes often have bad experiences and cannot be ignored. They can't erase all those scenes they've experienced. Therefore, a positive family environment needs protection in such a way as soon as possible because a positive family or family environment is certainly one of the important protective factors in their further life as a prevention of their risky behavior because the primary socialization I repeat is acquired naturally in the family. So if the child’s life is threatened, of course, that society or social care system, or the centre’s professional staff, should take the child out of such a family of the bad and simply take care of it in the best possible way. As for the state of foster care in Croatia we cannot say that we are satisfied that more than 50% of the foster parents are over 50 years old. We know there are no foster parents in certain parts of our country. As far as the foster home register itself is concerned, it's now in the works, and it's been dealing with the wrong numbers. Hosts often have to deal with problems beyond their knowledge. This is why I believe that foster parents are in great need of professional assistance, and this professional assistance can be obtained at social care centres or education prescribed by law. The law also regulates the conditions to be met by a foster family. We know that the law was passed in August 2011 and that it had to be brought into line with the Social Care Act. During the application of the law, it was in fact that various problems were seen because how to speed up foster care. Certainly not in such a way if a particular professional is required, if special equipment is sought, if certain special conditions are sought, we will not be able to speed up especially with us in Croatia the foster care that we can say in turns and which is more developed in rural areas where, as I said, the very low professional prepares and education system of the foster parents themselves. Under the existing provisions of the law, it is logical to conclude that current foster parents would actually lose their licenses or not have children again if they were to be asked for expert preparation. I therefore welcome that I allow myself to continue to care with primary school or to be a foster parent because, of course, a replacement parent may not need special expertise or higher education but must have the ability to enable a child to love, warmth, to accept that child into the family as if it were his own. Of course, it's a good thing to have a bigger professional kit, but that's certainly not crucial. Let us remember our grandmothers who must have raised us whether they had a primary school or not, but they gave us a lot of love and brought us up safely as normal people. Today it was mentioned about professional foster care, so someone said that we had a blind faith in it. No, no, we didn't believe it then, because we knew it wasn't real, and that's exactly why it's being corrected by these laws because it could simply be rejected at the beginning. Because when you look for a modest fee that can be paid under these prescribed conditions, which is a minimum ESS nurse, or a higher or a high professional prepares social work, a social educator, a psychologist, etc., where we find such people we ask ourselves, especially what foster care is all about three children, or if they are difficult to develop on one child. So we're wondering how many such foster parents would it take? On this point, it's as if the law is working at the beginning that it can't actually be implemented in real life. I've told you about the number that's been processed by 2.5 foster parents, but now there's only 600 of them. The upper limit for a foster parent is also introduced in a way that a foster parent cannot be a person over 60 years of age except, of course, when it comes to a relative family. It is very important that a relative foster parent does not have to have a condition for training before issuing a household permit but rather that the child is immediately taken home, which is very important because it is a fire measure and then... can decide when education can be made. I also support these changes for a year, and possibly longer. The law also explicitly states situations where the family cannot be a foster family that our club has given an amendment to. And in conclusion, since the number of foster parents in Croatia is not growing but falling on us is that we are actually creating conditions, legal frameworks with the aim of improving the foster system to be a simple process, i.e. that as soon as possible we can get permission for foster care in order to actually ensure more efficient action and quality care for the users. And just one more thing, I would refer to Article 5 of the Law, which mentions victims of domestic violence that are not for fostering, but why, precisely because their care needs promptity, needs expertise, needs coordination. And that is why I suggest that when we are working on plans to open safe houses that we are thinking especially about those areas where they are not, because for victims of domestic violence, it is certain that logistics support is needed, therefore much more than traditional or any other household. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11892	Thank you, too. We have two replicas on your exhibit. The first one was a representative of Mladen Novak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11893	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I responded to the replica when you said this law did not reach its goal and it is probably a good part true, but it is not a reason that exactly what we talked about on the board that we are going with some changes that may do far more harm than good. I hope that it is not the reason that the number of foster parents declines to go with the amendment to Article 19(1), subparagraph 3. I think it's nothing, but there's nothing to explain this part of it, and I mentioned it on the board, even though I agreed to an amendment proposed by the board. But I see no reason to go with the reduction of those conditions mentioned in that article. It's really, I don't see the need, and I'm afraid that it's going to happen that someone's going to be serving some punishment for some of the things that were mentioned here before, and now after three years, he's been wiped out that deadline, or three years, he's sitting in jail, he's going out, and now he can be a foster parent. Well, I think it's a nonsens. On the other hand, you mentioned some more of the details that are positive from this law, noting that this is a transitional law that will likely be in autumn in some more complete form. If I'm not mistaken from this ministry in the last six months, this is the first law. If I'm wrong, you correct me, if I missed. I think six months from now, a complete package of all the laws that are actually going in this package could have been made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11894	Thank you, too. We have a reply to the replica, Representative Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11895	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague, I hope that if you've read the amendment that the SDP club is, I think you'll find that article very clear. As for my finding that the existing law did not increase the number of foster parents, that is correct. And I was clear when I said that given the state of foster care in Croatia that raising education would happen in order for existing foster parents to lose their licenses, that is to say, not to get a chance to get further children at home. And as far as the ministry is concerned, it is not true that only this law, i.e. amendments and additions to the Social Care Act, has been passed, only because this is a ceasefire, a correction of injustice, and there is expected to be a new Social Care Act at the end of the year, as well as a new Household Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11896	Thank you. And we have another replica, Drazen Djurovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11897	Thank you. Well, here's the MP, it's quite impressive but well, it's such a practice to be firmly placed in that position of the party we belong to and defend and what's very difficult to defend when it comes to lowering the level of professional training in the foster home. So I would understand that even in the bill of law, the amendments to the law that were then written so that, yes, the situation is like that, we have people of older age groups who are fosterers and who mostly have a primary school, but not that the bill says that this is a European practice, as it says in the amendment and the addition of the law. ... In an explanation, yes. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The assessment of the situation and the explanation. Because it's really not a real light motive. Well, let's say. We can also ask ourselves what are our target groups of 30 and 40-year-olds we want to become foster parents. Do we use these criteria to target the real groups of those families that we want to be potential foster parents? In what direction do we actually aim at it, what do we want? Accepting this condition as it is or trying to look for some groups that might in the time to come be other target groups of foster parents. And another question that you also did not refer to because it was difficult to refer to, why did article 19 of the existing law change in the first place, and why a solution was then proposed that you, as a party, seek amendments to it and supplement it. Or it's simply obvious that it's not a good solution. Why was Article 19(1), subparagraph 3, not left the way it was and how it was? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11898	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Representative Bonačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11899	Thank you very much. Well, buddy, this is a transitional solution and it's clear to everyone. No one is against high or higher professional training or high school. By this law, or these amendments, we protect existing foster parents. We said this is a transitional period, it's going to go into foster care, so it's probably going to be another way to regulate this. With these changes, we protect existing foster parents who have a primary school because we said, statistics say there are over 50% of them with primary school. That's exactly why. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11900	Thank you, too. We're continuing an individual debate. Representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11901	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. Well, here's where we started this debate about the Household Act. The law was passed exactly on July 15th last year. It lasts a year, it was adopted for the reason that it was part of the reform of the social care of the former government, and the point, today we have agreed all of us here who have discussed it and I believe that we will discuss it to reduce the number of users in the institutions. The goal is to create as many foster parents as possible. The value of foster care institutions is that users, and this is what I have to repeat really live in the middle of where foster families live as in their families. That they're in a better environment than any institution. In particular, this applies to children and young ones. Unfortunately, in our areas, foster care is not as widespread, but it has been present for a long time, more than 100 years is known as the possibility of helping someone, taking care of someone. The colleagues and some colleagues have already said that it is more widespread in rural areas and in northern and northwestern Croatia, and that almost in very small outlines there is it in the southern parts of our country, in Dalmatia and in the coast. That almost unknown as a form of concern to any person was about young people. It is this law that we are discussing today, i.e. This current law that we're changing was intended to change this image, to popularize this form of concern. This law has therefore established some new forms of foster care. In addition to the traditional introduction, it is specialized that provides foster care for children with developmental difficulties, for children with behavioural disorders or for people with disabilities. The applicable law also allowed occasional, but also urgent foster care. When it is really necessary because of what is happening in the family, for example Violence, and you must have a hasty child or even occasionally put him in another foster family, and certainly there are colleagues who have had experience with the students, and I have experienced it myself in my profession that it is better for such a child to come into a foster family than in a home possibly for unsupervised children. A whole new form of foster care is also a professional foster care that introduced this current law where activity can be carried out as an independent, professional activity if one is an expert. Normally in the area from which it has all these educational, educational and other personalities, it can be envisaged that experts in the field of social work, social pedagogy, educational rehabilitation, working therapy, medical professions and I will not list. In passing a valid law, many said that often fostering has become a profit. And it is, the fact is that in some areas, that foster care has turned into a profit, and that is why it is good that we have limited the number and the person, and especially children who can be fostered. Which doesn't mean that it's something that's negative in foster care but it can't be the primary goal of the foster parent. Unfortunately, in some rural areas, a colleague and a colleague he is. And what are we changing now by this law that is before us today? Indeed, recently a few days ago, the Social Care Act has changed as a fundamental law governing the activity of social care. Social care institutions and all competences have been abolished, and in this area of foster care has been returned to social care centres. However, these seemingly technical changes have also been used this time to change some elements of the law on the grounds that some problems have been identified during the application of the law. And the law is in the application of everything here, and it will be now in ten days eventually when it is adopted, so even less, a year. What are these and what are these problems, what are they supposed to be? First, the existing law sought greater education from the foster home, and today almost everyone was talking about it. I agree that it's hard to get to a foster home, but I can't accept that we're going back to being old enough to have foster parents who have only a primary school because you need to know that generations of people are coming, generations of foster parents who are already more educated and they certainly don't have just elementary school. Let us not get carried away by the fact that Croatia is such an uneducated state that most of the population is only with primary school. In the census, that's something else because we know what kind of question is being answered in the population list. But there's something I need to tell you. Mostly in fostering children where all care should be given to the child and the part of the education and help that my colleague used to say to me, Posavec about what it means to help a child in education. We are about to seek to make foster families as educated as possible. Second, what are we changing second? In Article 5, you have changed the i.e. You've reduced the number of users in specialized foster care, but you've abolished, you're proposing to abolish professional foster care. Except it takes a complete editing of the same. The truth is that you are not able to provide colleagues and colleagues with what is seen from the budget with financial assumptions for the implementation of such a form of foster care. We constantly point out that foster care as a form of care is unevenly distributed. And today's current law has clearly laid down the conditions for the provision of foster care in a network of public social services and conditions that must be met by the foster home and family members. Elimination of the regulation of the network by this law and transferring it exclusively to the Social Care Act where the entire social care network is regulated. I don't think we've reached our goal. And I would like to remind my colleagues and colleagues who debated a year ago in this same assembly about this law, especially my colleague, Jerkovic, who said the following, what is the current policy, then made to create a network of foster parents? The key prerequisite for law enforcement is to create a network of foster parents, and you don't have a foster home network, or without it, this law is simply a dead letter on paper. If you don't have enough foster parents and you don't have them, the law is in practice 0. I agree with that, and now we say let's put it under the Social Services Act, let's get it out of this special law regarding foster care. The only thing I'm really going to support, and that's where I'm going to agree with all of you colleagues and colleagues who you said really needed to extend the application of foster care to those who are finishing school and who are stopping, who are incapacitating for at least one year to take care of themselves. Those kids are really on their own, they can't decide on their own yet. And she'd be inclined, really inclined to support that proposal so he wouldn't be just a year. Rather than considering a certain limit when such a young person can do so, he can be truly capable and we can create at least some basic conditions for survival. Because we see that young people and statistics say that young people are the hardest to hire. I think my colleague said that, speaking on behalf of the HSU Club, they're mostly young people who finish high school. So they're already going out at 17, under 18, and I agree with you to be on their own, without any means of further survival. Yeah. And those housing units they're staying in, I'm sorry I'm going to finish, just to finish the sentence, they're really not enough to take care of them yet. [[The Incursion Vice President: Time of my colleague.]] Here's what I'm saying. You shouldn't have hurried with this law. Maybe one whole solution should have been found. [[Optionary Vice President: Thank you.]] But what the law has passed certainly has brought in a lot of good things in this area. Thank you for letting me say the end of the sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11902	Thank you, colleague Roxandić. You're done. We have three replicas on your exhibit. A representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, reported. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11903	Very short. You told Madam Representatives that in the southern parts we do not have unfortunately developed foster care, I would point out that traditionally for decades and decades, because it deserves the end, it's the Bank's end. And I'd just like to say one more sentence. We would all like to have foster parents who are highly educated, who are wide-ranging, who have every possible quality that can hardly satisfy one natural parent, but most importantly in this present situation is for the foster parent to love children. That's what I mean most importantly and it needs to be special and highlighted, and education and so, it can all be compensated later, but without love remains, so we don't even have complete people, so it's a person who doesn't love himself or anyone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11904	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Comrade Roksanic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11905	Thank you. Oh, my fellow Ingrid, look, I really wanted one cut, and the fact is, in the southern parts, we don't have that tradition. And I agree with you that it should be, and it should be done mainly in some parts of Dalmatia. I can't judge about it. I'm not from that neighborhood. But, and I agree with you that children should be loved, I don't think anyone for foster care just for reasons, just for the reason I mentioned it, and I mentioned that it could turn into a profit. I wouldn't agree with you to take the stairs backwards and say the foster parent doesn't have to be an educated person.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11906	Thank you. We have another replica of your exposure. A representative of Vishny Fortuna. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11907	Thank you very much. I would have respected MPs replicated first that foster care and foster care could never have earned a living, but never. And so I thank all the foster parents, who actually helped the children with their work, there was no profit there. If there was an accident, I didn't hear him. The Social Care Centre would react, but it can't react because there couldn't be any profits. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11908	A microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11909	And you're, okay, okay. So, as far as professionalism is concerned, I say again and again love, empathy towards children is the greatest profession that can exist. And as for helping children who go to school, there is also a school of competent welfare centres to organise assistance if the child needs help. And as for professional foster parents, foster parents, I say here professional foster care will certainly happen, but at this point every child, any difficulty in development, any other children if they need accommodation in the foster family, they are immediately placed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11910	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Here are my colleagues, Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11911	... [[Specially enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11912	Turn the microphone on.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11913	Well, I turned it on now is someone. It's wrong for people to make money at foster care, to make money, no. Maybe you've got it all wrong, somewhere they've really taken as many kids as possible, and I'm not going to do it. And I agree with you this is primarily one human, extremely human, I will not say work, one human situation where you take two or more people especially adults and take care of them. So you see, this existing law has been done by foster organizations, people who speak out of their personal experience about what it means to be a foster parent. And that's why I think this existing law is very good, he's had a big debate, he's, uh, he's held round tables. The foster parents themselves pointed out the problems of foster care. And those very points that are included on these people's proposal are now changing.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11914	Thank you. We're continuing the debate. The next one is representative Ante Babic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11915	Dear Vice President, dear ministers with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. In addition to this debate, I would like to highlight a few things relating to the bill's proposal, but today a lot has been said. What I was referring to was both the law and the article of Law 10, 15, 19. So in order not to repeat myself on behalf of the HNS Club, a colleague named Konig came forward, and she said that she should thank the foster parents even if she should do it a few times. And I agree that there is no money that can compensate for that foster care, because the foster home is a socially valuable category and therefore this law needs to be taken very seriously and I believe that it will also be well-intentioned and changed everything that needs to be changed. But a year ago, this law was discussed, which was in line with the Social Care Development Strategy and the provisions on deinstitutionalisation and are taking a major step forward in the development of foster care. Household care is a replacement family in the territory of Croatia, but foster care is also one of the categories of social care that is fully unbalanced in the territory of Croatia, and that is true. These laws amend the provisions of the service users of this care in traditional and specialized foster care. It is precisely this and the individuality of the users and their damage caused by long-term abuse, and there are such service providers that greatly facilitate the work of social care centres, since it is an emergency care issue and that this should be particularly highlighted. So, this urgent fostering to the end of the opportunities that led to that. It is certainly necessary to preserve an existing foster family for this category in legal provisions, and as a possibility of caring and respecting it as part of the palette of what is happening as services on the ground. The institution itself through the Center for Social Care can hardly compensate for the warmth actually provided by foster families. However, the law provides for those four categories of foster care. For children who find themselves in difficult living opportunities and now emergency fostering will be allowed, but conditions are changed in a way that limit the possibility of their accommodation. This law also removes education clauses in adoption procedures, which can be said to be actually a step backwards. But I would also agree with those who say that there may not be a need for more education if there is love for the home of such children. However, it is not enough to think about nutrition, hygiene, and the desire for education, or the possibility to follow the course of education, to say the least. I must also point out in this law that the instruction provided for by the Social Care Act is not practical and has a number of shortcomings. It is known that foster parents who have children on permanent accommodation may request a child’s allowance. In order to achieve pension insurance, they are asked for a solution to start accommodation for a particular child in a particular foster family, which is actually an administrative process, not a solution to the right to an accommodation service from which it is not seen that a child is located in a foster family, and in which a foster child will be placed for a certain period of time if a child is transferred from one foster family to another. These are the things of practice. It's a shame, of course, that this law is passed by urgency. But we heard from the committee that there are excuses for that because some foster families can lose their license. As the Social Care Act is a uniquely regulated issue of social services networks for Croatia, which includes foster care services. It is said that it is not necessary to do so with this law. However, I think that not only should the register be made but also the control of the foster parent, not only administratively but also in practice, so that it does not happen that fostering a child does not have to, and can become a drug addict, it does not have to, and it can become an alcoholic, it does not have to and may become a gambling addict, but also a promiscuous behavior. So we'd actually have situations where a child from one trauma entered or experienced another trauma, and then would... both for himself and for this society lost. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I want to believe that the Proposer and these remarks will take into account the effectiveness of the one or those who pass this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11916	Thank you, too. The following has been reported by MP Shimo Djurdjevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11917	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The current Household Act came into force only last August 10th 2011. The law regulates the conditions that must be met by the foster family in the way in which foster care is carried out and stopped, and other issues related to foster care. The foster home in the Republic of Croatia has a long tradition since 1902. Today in the Republic of Croatia we have 1332 foster families for children and youth in which there are 1955 users. 1675 children and youngsters without adequate parental care. 250 children with developmental difficulties, 30 children and youth with behavioral problems. The total number of foster families for adults is 1303 with 1394 users. They're older and powerless people, people with disabilities, mentally ill adults. The application of the Household Act is in line with the Social Care Act in a way that changes the jurisdiction of social care institutions. There's always a higher education standard to be pursued. But new research, fostering models in Europe have shown that out of 12 European countries, only one country prescribes a completed degree of expertise until there are no prescribed conditions regarding the prescribed status of foster parents in other countries. Practice in the Republic of Croatia shows that completed secondary education guarantees not always better care for users but other characteristics of the foster home. Also, an upper age limit is introduced for a foster parent who takes care of a child, which is that he can be over 60 years of age unless it is a relative family and that a single person can take care of a maximum of two children. It is also very important that adult users can stay for another year at their foster home in the hope of getting a job. And such persons in my opinion should have the advantage of hiring from everything I'm told I won't owe the thought of others as well as some who have already commented on perhaps a very sensitive question should have in two readings so that here in the Croatian Parliament, for this very sensitive area of this change and for the additions to me, they bring consensus. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11918	Thank you, too. Next up for the debate, MP Ana Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11919	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Minister with an associate. Well, here we have heard several times that the existing Household Act was passed not a year ago. Then, as a new law intended to bring this area into line with the then new Social Care Act, as well as the guidelines for reforming social care that went towards deinstitutionalisation and the implementation of the Joint Memorandum on Social Integration in the Republic of Croatia and the plan for deinstitutionalisation and transformation of social care homes, of course and in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of Children, which provides for institutional care only when necessary. In this respect, this law was adopted in July 2011, of course, with the aim of increasing the number of foster families, equating the quality of the provision of foster services, increasing the standard of foster care, regulating foster benefits for the costs of users, certain areas of compulsory training, etc., increasing the criminal sanctions for breach of the provisions of that law. Today's incomplete year of law enforcement is ahead of us the law on amendments and additions to that law because it is said that the set goal in law enforcement has not been reached. Therefore, it is proposed to achieve this unachieved objective now by amending, above all, the abolition of the necessary secondary preparation for fosterers, the simplification of the right process, the reduction of the circle of users who need specialised foster care, the abolition of the provisions on the foster network, the abolition of professional foster care, the abolition of part of the criminal provisions and the mitigation of the criteria for access to foster status in the section which determines which is the fosterer or other family member of persons of socially unacceptable behaviour. Given the timing, I don't know if I'll be able to discuss other provisions. I'm gonna stop at this legal one. So, without doubting the good intentions of the promoters, I do not really believe that we should doubt that we are all seeking to have foster care in our country, to expand the network of foster parents and to raise standards. I'm not sure this is how the proposed amendments and the additions will be done. I will begin with Article 19 of the existing law, so that is Article 12 of the amendment amending paragraph 3. The point is that it explains which foster or other family members are persons of socially unacceptable behavior. The proposed amendments now in force had a provision that they were persons who were legally convicted of criminal offences, so now lists against life and body, against freedom and the rights of man, against honor and reputation, against sexual freedom, disorder, against marriage, family and youth, against property, against the credibility of documents, the values protected by international law and persons punished for violations of domestic violence and persons not subject to criminal proceedings. So, of course, one broad circle of people, and I would really like to hear from Madam Minister as the legislator of this law who was saying that this paragraph 1 of Article 19. Paragraph 3 is changing because it's really hard for me to figure it out. So we narrowed down this number of people to persons who have been legally convicted of a crime against life in the last three years before applying for foster care, etc. and according to which criminal and criminal sanctions have been imposed. Nothing is said and spoken of by persons against whom criminal or criminal proceedings are being conducted. What's going on here? So we trust these people with the most vulnerable groups, trust the children and the mentally older persons most often mentally ill so that they can't care about their rights, we trust them with persons who are theoretically according to this provision, it's possible that they were convicted five years ago for this crime, that they may still be subject to criminal sanctions or conditional terms, and that they can be foster parents and apply for foster parents. We see here the SDP amendment because the SDP club realized that something was wrong, but it seems to me that this amendment is even worse than the proposed text of the law. Why? Because it says that a person who is socially inadmissible in the sense of this law is considered guilty of committing a crime or a violation of domestic violence until rehabilitation has taken place and persons who are being prosecuted for acts that are being prosecuted under official duty or infraction for domestic violence. What does that mean? This means that a foster parent can be any legally convicted person except for acts or violations of domestic violence. That means a convicted murderer can be a foster home. The rightful perpetrator of a war crime can be a foster parent, so it excludes only a person who is rightly convicted of domestic violence or the one for whom the proceedings are being conducted. So as long as there is a procedure for other acts, he won't be able to be a foster parent, but when he's convicted, he'll be able to do it. So in that amendment, I also believe in the good intentions of the SDP club but the amendment is not well addressed and therefore the only correct amendment and good amendment in this respect would be to delete Article 12 of the proposed amendments and amendments and to remain Article 19 in the text as it is intended because it has indeed covered all those persons who, by committing such offences or as defendants in criminal proceedings, are persons of socially unacceptable behaviour. I also warn here on Article 19(2) of the existing law which has not been amended, but which will again be applicable, depending on when we will get the expected law on criminal records and rehabilitation and the legal consequences of the conviction. Furthermore, I would like to draw attention to the amendments to Article 57 which deletes the criminal provisions. So far, criminal provisions, i.e. violations, fines for a series of violations and non-compliance with this law have been provided. These amendments, as proposed, therefore, delete paragraphs 2 and 4. .../The speech room is excluded./... so it remains only what the foster homer would have sinned to say so to the institution, according to the welfare center, or to the state. So if you were to foster someone without a valid permit and if you were to foster someone without a solution, then you'd be in violation-law. However, if you do a series of injuries exactly to the user, then it is deleted for the time being, so he will no longer be held accountable, he will not be prevented from being fined for it, with the reason that the applicants do not, by nature and severity, subject to criminal and legal liability, especially since they are members of the foster contract as a mandatory legal relationship. First, it is not true because they are not all part of the foster contract or are all these injuries intended for the termination of the household permit. Therefore, we are a beneficiary of foster care, I repeat, it is about children, it is mostly about people who are not able to care about their rights, we have taken away their ability for those who violate their rights to be punished. I therefore believe that it is absolutely necessary to return these criminal provisions to the provisions of the law because we have left these users to the mercy and mercy of the fosterers in this way, and therefore it turns out that the state has remained to protect itself from this impedimented sanction, and it does not care for the users. That's what it looks like on these suggestions.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11920	Thank you. We continue with the debate of Representative Jadranka Kosor. She's gone. She's losing her right to argue. Next, Agent Dinko Bosnjak. Here you go, pal Bosnjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11921	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Minister, fellow MPs. The proposal to amend and supplement the Household Act provides for certain amendments relating to the law adopted in August 2011. The current Household Act and its implementing rules need to be brought into line with the new Social Care Act. The Social Care Act changes the jurisdiction of the social care institution in such a way as to ensure that the work carried out by the social care institutions through the termination of those institutions is carried out by a social care centre. Further changes relating to the educational status of foster parents where the level of education is allowed to be an eight-year-old school are unlikely to contribute to an increase in the standard of user life, but may even generally result in a reduction in that quality. There is one thing, the amendment to the law is that the procedure will be significantly simplified, especially in relation to family foster care, where an accelerated authorisation procedure is being introduced. Since the Centre for Social Care makes a final decision on childcare and the recommendations of the Ministry of Social Policy are not binding, it would be interesting to hear why this legal regulation is in breach in some cases as we have heard these days. The Household Act regulates an extremely sensitive topic that requires the inclusion of as many experts as possible... for those areas that can offer the quality of a solution that can be applied with the aim of improving life and work both by the user and those who will perform this work on complex social problems in a warm and loving manner. The largest number of home family users is located in the City of Zagreb and Zagreb County, while the smallest number is in Sibenik-Knin County. In order for foster care to rise to a higher level, it is necessary to make as popular as possible and to achieve as favourable conditions as possible for potential foster parents as possible, to provide quality care and speed up as quickly as possible to the rapid development of the institution. Finally, it is necessary to make and enable all these amendments to the law to be applied on the ground in order to achieve the objective of which all changes to the law and adoption are made. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11922	Thank you very much. And individually the last, Tomislav Ivić. Here you go, colleague Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11923	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Madam Minister. A few sentences. I would also like to say, of course, my vision of the amendment to the Household Act. First of all, I'd say there's no reason for this bill to be amended into emergency procedures and an emergency procedure. We are witnessing that almost all the laws that come into this House go into emergency procedures, I don't know what the reason is, but here I really don't see any reason to say that this law should go into emergency procedures. If the existing law is in force for a year and a thorough analysis of the functioning of the law is made, I think the law could then be referred to a regular procedure, so that through two readings, there are also concrete proposals on amendments to the law. We've seen from our colleagues' discussions that key things were essentially related to two aspects of the amendments to the law. The first refers to the abolition of professional training, medium-sized facilities for foster parents and return to the fact that foster parents can be those who have a primary school. I understand why this seems to be, as a result of increasing the circle of those who can be fosterers in the future, however, whether this is a solution to the problem and whether we are going to increase the number of foster parents in this way. I'm not so sure about that. Is the solution in the 21st century going back to some things that should be behind us. Much more controversial for me is that the law abolishes what was a major step I would say in this area, and these are professional foster parents and we have heard from the inaugural presentation of the Deputy Minister that there was not enough time to spend all the necessary procedural and any other preparations for the professional foster parents to live. I don't think that's just true, that's why it's not done. If it is because of the money, which is in the state budget, then it is clear and loud that this institution is being abolished because of the savings. What we all want regardless of party membership is that we have such a legal regulation that will lead to an increase in the number of foster parents. I don't think, with these amendments to the law, we're not going to achieve that goal, and we're not going to increase the number of foster parents, but I do think that the foster home in the future is going to be even less than it is for all of us. And we need to look at and make changes to the laws that will create conditions for them to be more. And I think this time of year is too short a time to make general evaluations and courts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11924	Thank you, too. We have two replicas on your exhibit. First one came from representative Nadica Jelash. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11925	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's my colleague, Ivić, has insisted on the education structure, and I want to replicate with that to actually force a reaction to the replica, or his answer. I would like to say that as far as this educational level is concerned, simply opposition wants to be a greater Christian than the Pope. It is not logical for me to simply ask that foster parents have a higher educational level than an average Croatian citizen. And we know that the education structure of Croatian citizens is bad, that we have one really high percentage of uneducated, or those with primary school. So the proposed changes actually only respect the existing situation, and the current situation is as we have heard several times today that we have 52% of the foster parents who have a primary school. With that in mind, I actually want to ask you one more question. Namely, does your insistence in high school mean that all current foster parents with only primary school should actually be deprived of the right to foster care?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11926	Thank you. I'm sorry, you're a late colleague, Ivić. During the speech, I followed you closely to see, I expected, but unfortunately you were too late. We have another replica, Agent Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11927	Thank you very much. Well, here's my colleague, Ivić, of course, you said that these amendments to the law are trying to increase the number of foster parents, and then it's done in a way to delete the provision that foster parents must have at least high school education and that's how we're going to increase it. Maybe, and I'll comment on that. But on the other hand, there's no professional foster care. Well, that way, and one circle of people we don't know about would be there or wouldn't be, but we're making it impossible for them to deal with foster care. Professionals who have qualifications. It was said today on behalf of the SDP club that a colleague said it was a deficit profession, that we could expect anyone to apply for the job, foster care, etc. However, as far as I know, there are nurses at the Employment Service and there are also defectors and there are psychologists, and how do we know that nobody would define themselves? And now we've lifted his full opportunity. You said and you wanted to provoke and answer, and now I'm going to say that to the answer, so a colleague asks the answer to whether it means that the existing foster parents should be abolished? Your colleague Bonačić said that this law is only a transitional solution and that we should expect a new Household Act very quickly, but why do you go so strictly and delete that high school education? So you could say very elegantly with one provision that this does not apply to existing foster parents or that this provision on secondary education will apply in two or three years. Finally, the educational structure of the Croatian population today is not the same as it was 30 or 40 years ago, especially if we go to compulsory secondary education it will change. And that's why I think it was too strict to take down this provision. She could've been relativated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11928	Time, fellow. Thank you. This is what we're done with. Do we have a reply to the replica? Excuse me. Well, I didn't expect you to return your colleague, but it's okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11929	No, I'll take the chance and answer my colleague. I agree basically with what Mrs. Anna Lovrin said. In this regard, colleagues Ana is the problem that, by abolishing the provision that this must be a medium professional, efforts are likely to increase the number of foster parents, while at the same time removing the provision on a professional fosterer reduces the possibility of increasing the number of foster parents. So, in itself, it's both illogical. I don't know, colleague Jelash, where did you get the information that the average Croatian citizen is an 8-year-old? I still think it's more than an 8-year-old... The foster parent, yes, but you were talking about an average educated citizen. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I said I wasn't sure this was the best solution, and my colleague, Lovrin, said it well. A transitional provision could be put in place that in the next two or three years, because so all the existing ones will continue to do their job. ... Yeah, yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thus, this could be resolved in a different way so that all those present who satisfy the conditions could continue to do their job, and the new would eventually have to have a medium professional arrangement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11930	Thank you, too. This is what we're done with. I would like to ask the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Social Policy and Youth. Madam Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11931	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, thank all those who participated in the debate on this law. The debate serves to see if something in the law is wrong. I think it's past the times when people on this side thought they were the smartest and couldn't write anything infallible in the law so that anything that wasn't well written in the law could be corrected by amendments. There are already enough amendments here and most likely some of them will be accepted in order to make what we have potentially not properly settled and written in these amendments as a good solution in the final draft of the law. As far as this law is concerned, why did he go by emergency procedures, why did we even go to that law? We went because practice and the situation in practice made us do it. In fact, at this point in Croatia, we have about 50% of foster parents who have a primary school and who have been in foster care for years and who we can call some sort of traditional foster home. You've all been talking about how we don't have enough foster parents and how from Dubrovnik to Gospić and almost all of Istria there are almost no foster parents, there are some related foster parents. So this is a large part of Croatia that is absolutely uncovered by foster parents and many of the actions that have been done over the past years by UNICEF, and even by the restoring ministries did not bear fruit. Which means he failed to motivate a number to do foster work. So it's not exactly something you can make money on, it's not exactly something that's so tempting to people. It's a hard job where people get kids who are highly traumatized, children who come from a very bad environment. And with these kids it's really not easy, it's not easy to work, it takes a lot of effort, a lot of love. Of course, knowledge is also needed, so I will now come to that primary school, or high school. In this way we have protected, so almost 50% of the foster parents whose centres have begun to withdraw licenses in the last year. So the centers were law enforcement, enforcing a law by which one who had a primary school could not deal with foster care. Every day, people's licenses, as they're doing, are being taken away from people, and it's being done that one part of a foster parent who has a more educated son or husband is transferring licenses to him. I ask you what we get in the quality of foster care? Nothing, we just satisfied the shape. I'll dare say that every single one of us who's graduated from college only gets a basic education until we've acquired some other skill. In principle, this basic education is one basis for us, so without these skills, we can hardly be, each of us good at the part we worked with. Same with the foster parents. Someone here has said one exact fact, so you too, a colleague who said it doesn't exist in the European Union. You must know that out of 12 European Union countries, only one prescribes educational conditions for foster parents. Why? Because not even an educational structure, therefore, a high education structure does not qualify you for working with highly traumatized children, but only an additional education. And that is what we are tasked with, because that is what they do in the countries of the European Union, and that is one continuous education of foster parents. Therefore, they need to be dealt with, given and organised continuous educations, not educations that are done in order to spend money by or from associations, or ministries or others, but targeted educations of what they need. Not all get equally traumatized children, not all get work with the same kind of problem. There is a need to strengthen communication between the center and the foster home, which means that when the centre brings the child to the foster home, it has to tell him what really happened to that child in the family, because the center knows, the foster parent does not know. So the foster parent must get a complete picture of the conditions that the child lived in the family, which is why he was moved out of the family. Because the center never removes children from its own whim, but only when it really is, are there some basics, basic rights of the child in its parent family threatened. So we have to work on some of these mechanisms that enable foster parents to do the job of foster care more easily. We'll go into home transformation, so all that's good, what the former government has done well in terms of deinstitutionalization plans, decentralisation, this foster care. So we will continue to work on this, going to transform the homes of social care into children’s centres that should be a lasting support for foster parents. So at this point they don't have that kind of support, that they have someone who will help them at the moment when they don't know how to treat a child that shows certain, certain behavior as a consequence of life that has had a certain period, often very different in their basic family. Of course, what we're protecting right now, those who have been fostering for years, and who have only primary school, doesn't mean that everyone else who has high school or higher education can't do foster care. Of course I can and is the goal of having as many higher educations as possible. The goal is also to have most of the urban foster care, you all said here that you had most of the rural foster care and that's the problem. The problem is, for example. When you have children who are born with a neuro-risk disorder, it is difficult to place these children in some rural areas, because health care is, therefore, certain exercises, physiotherapy and all those who need to work with these children, at a very early stage are actually quite distant from such children. It's not easy for foster parents every day from New Town to go to the Golden Hammer, it's not easy to go from Vrbovecka dubrava every day to Goljak. So we must primarily develop urban foster care because of these children, but it is a process. It can't be done overnight, it's one process to work on it, and we're definitely focused on getting as many educated foster parents as possible, as well as urban foster parents. But once again, I'd like to underline that we must be grateful to all these people who, at this moment and in the last twenty or thirty years, are taking care of these children, without much support for an extremely low fee. They take care of these children even when they no longer have any legal obligation, so after 18 years, people tend to take care of those children, and to get to a job, make their own contacts, because that country has never made a good system to protect those children. So they themselves enter communication with both the craft chamber and with a particular circle of employers who then employ these children at the age of 18, when they finish certain vocational schools. So, because of all that they have invested in these children, and their energy, and their free time, and their great love, and their great care we must be truly eternally grateful. And that's why it seems to me that we should have stopped this law in a way that haunts these people, because every day, so calling the center and taking the license really leads us to lose this number of foster parents that we have, and we don't have enough. I'll tell you one more time, you all here said that we have a few counties where we don't have any foster parents, and it's very, very difficult to increase the number of foster homes there. So we must protect what we have today. So this law has also been in public debate for a long time, and that's why we also dared to go by emergency procedure. It's consistent with all foster organizations. Of course we have room to do this, but in a new law, which we think we might have, somewhere along with a quality, public, professional debate, so somewhere in the late autumn, here in the Parliament, along with the Family Law, the Social Care Act. So here's one set of laws that we'd have then, so I'm saying one whole picture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11932	Thank you. This is what we're done with this agenda point. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I would like to thank the Deputy Prime Minister for her cooperation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11933	We move to a statement on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Household Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 112. The debate on the text of the law is over. The bench is divided into a review of the amendments. I'm calling for a representative of the government, Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Youth Darko Ledinski. We're moving on to an amendment statement. Amendment to the 1st Representative of Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11934	An amendment to Article 5 amending Article 10(2) of the Law which proposes that specialised foster care be provided to victims of domestic violence because we believe that foster families cannot ensure the safety of victims of domestic violence. Namely, the accommodation of victims of domestic violence can only be provided for now in special institutions or other legal persons providing the conditions prescribed by the implementing rules.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11935	Amendment holder for the amendment, Mr. Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11936	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I can't believe, Mr. Deputy Minister, that not a month after the debate in this House about the Attorney General's Report on Gender Equality when our full mouths were the right of a woman to neglect herself in this way the most endangered, hence the victims of domestic violence I personally witnessed and defended such victims. And I'm further saddened because we in our county are denying you. We have shown in our county how this can work, secured a safe house, which was also evident in social care centres Đurđevac, Križevci and Koprivnica, which proved to be a successful model for building and caring for and caring for these people in such difficult situations. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11937	Are you asking for a statement on the amendment? Who is for the amendment of MP Stephen Milinkovic who has not received government support? And he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment 2. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff of the Commission in accordance
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11938	The amendment shall be accepted in the following way: that the fosterer who provides emergency foster care shall be paid the foster care in full monthly amount, regardless of the duration of the emergency foster care, but in such a way as to pay, in accordance with Article 37 of the final proposal of the law, and not in Article 6 amending Article 11 of the applicable law, as proposed by the Proposer shall add paragraph 4, which reads: "Extremely from paragraphs 1 and 3 of this Article, to the foster parent who provides emergency foster care services for a maximum of 30 days of foster care shall be paid for the full month regardless of the duration of his stay during the month."
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11939	What does the amendment promoter say?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11940	We agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11941	This amendment was adopted in the amended form as read by the Deputy Ministers. Amendment 3. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff of the Commission in accordance
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11942	The amendment to Article 11 shall not be accepted. Namely, health skills excludes the existence of infectious diseases, mental illnesses, and addiction diseases.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11943	Amendment holder?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11944	I'm not happy about not accepting this amendment. I would not even agree just because I believe that this taxing indication of these additional diseases creates one greater security for future householders. But right now, we're going to give up, we're not going to spread it any further, but I hope that's going to be taken care of in the new proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11945	So you're withdrawing the amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11946	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11947	The amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment No. 4. The Committee on Family, Youth and Sports on Article 12 Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11948	Amendments to Article 12 are not accepted because one of the other amendments that will now be before us are much better regulated.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11949	Amendment holder, on behalf of the Committee, respected representative Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11950	Yes, Mr. Vice-President, since this amendment to the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports has been adopted unanimously, it means that all MPs and the ruling coalition have voted, but also the opposition, I think it should accept this one, and not this one, which is the only amendment of the SDP club. And I'll tell you why. Because we have agreed that it is unacceptable to act as we have introduced the amendment, not only on alcohol, drugs, but also on promiscuous behaviour. And I think it's logical to accept that the foster parent can't be the person who's promiscuity. And I don't think I have to explain why, do I? So I suggest you accept this amendment, of course, that the SDP amendment covers all of this, which is stated in the Committee's amendment, but does not include the promiscuous behaviour of the foster parent. Thank you very much, and please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11951	Who's for Amendment No. 4. A committee on family, youth and sports that the government doesn't accept? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment No. 5. SDP representative's club on Article 12.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11952	The amendment to Article 12 of the final draft of the law, in addition to the correction in paragraph 2 of subparagraph 1, shall be adopted by adding, after the word of the act, words that are being prosecuted under official duty.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11953	Amendment Proposer?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11954	We accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11955	The amendment has been accepted in a changed form. And Amendment No. Six. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11956	The amendment to Article 46, which nomotechnically amends norms shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11957	The amendment becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you, Deputy. We're going to vote. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 79 votes for and 33 abstentions have been passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Household Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11958	We continue with the agenda point: - Final proposal of the Law on Public-private Partnership, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE. No. 112 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on European Integration. You received the reports at the session. With us is Deputy Minister of Economy Mrs Tamara Obradović-Mazal. Here's the Deputy Minister's brief explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11959	Thank you very much, Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. Here is the government proposing this way the Final Proposal for a Law on Public-private Partnership. Let me, in addition to thanking the debate on committees that preceded the debate at the plenary session, thank the general public along the way that given the content of this law and the significant effect it has in practice and can have in practice after its adoption, we have initiated a public debate with all the key factors in the Republic of Croatia, with all the social partners, with the bodies of the unit of local self-government. They gave the law to a public hearing before the formal procedure was launched. Also, given the gravity of the law and the connection, the complex link with the procedures of the Public Procurement Act as well as the points of contact with the Law on concessions. We have also passed a number of technical consultations in order to improve this text of the bill and with relevant European Commission administrations. What we propose to the final draft of the law is in some way a response to feedback from the field or from the public sector, but of course from the private sector in the implementation of the applicable law which has proved to be a good framework for the conclusion, i.e. to launch a public-private partnership model. Of course, it is always important, after a period of time, to refer to the implementation of the Law in practice and to analyse the implementation of the current law, we have received certain feedback that has led us to improve the existing text of the law. Some of them as a reaction, therefore to feedback both in the public and private sectors, which are private partners in the public sector in some jpp projects, is somewhat more precise to define the very concept of public-private partnership. But also in the context of categorisation, the type of public-private partnership to which the public sector, i.e. in cooperation with the private partner, decides in particular in the part relating to the mandatory risks to itself by a private partner. We also tried to meet in a segment of commercial use of public buildings in the part where it is not delivered, or does not provide public service. In addition, binding to the deadlines provided that a sectoral law based on the concession law allows for a longer period than 40 years, this additional possibility is also introduced. I would add that the public body is committed precisely to maintaining how the existing but, of course, improving transparency is published by all information on the intention to implement a public-private partnership project which the Public-private Partnership Agency then publishes on its website. What we have in some way committed to reduce the deadlines and slightly more effective implementation of the whole process, which was a very frequent review of the length of the 180-day project preparation phase. In some ways, we have made a commitment to the maximum deadlines in this administrative section and that this length of the procedure is not a factor that prevents further development of the project. And I would also add as a very important provision and obligation of the Agency to report, monitor changes and supplement of the PPP contract for those projects in the PPP register that have been completed before the entry into force of the existing law itself. Finally, I would add that we must all be aware of what I assume and that we are aware that the law is a framework that allows in the case, so that the public sector decides to implement a public-private partnership model in the segment when there is a public service, for which there is a need. Of course, the lack of funds, but relying primarily on the responsibility of existing legal frameworks in terms of financial responsibility, in terms of discipline, accountability to the budget. Therefore, in accordance with the possibilities, responsibilities and obligations of the bill, it continues and provides an additional quality framework for the implementation of the JPP project itself. I repeat, if the public sector decides exactly this way to finance the delivery of public service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11960	I thank the Deputy Minister of Economy, Mrs Tamari Obradovic-Mazal. I ask if the committee's rapporteurs will take the floor? If not, then we'll move on to the debate. First of all, on behalf of the clubs, on behalf of the Croatian Labourists, the distinguished representative Dragutin Lesar will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11961	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Deputy Minister. I will begin my debate by convincing the last paragraph of the state of play in the proposal for this law on page three, which says that this law is an important instrument for the protection of taxpayers for the reasons that in the system of effective preparation of a public infrastructure project, they are protected in such a way that they actually pay the lowest price for the established standard of public service. Therefore, this law guarantees Croatia's citizens that a model of public private partnership under this Act will provide any service at the lowest price at the established standard of public service. It's a quote. What is a public private partnership in my personal court and court of the Croatian Labourists? A model where costs are public and profits are private. I expected that in the description of the situation and the introduction of the law and sometimes someone from the government present the results, that the analysis of 16 projects that have been launched so far in Croatia and have been completed or continued according to the model of public-private partnership under the existing law but when there were no laws when there were only guidelines, if I am not wrong with the guidelines. According to the guidelines no law went to the Project... -Istra cesta Zagreb-Macelj and Procist in Zagreb, and 13 projects from the register of public-private partnerships are three sports halls, one bus station, reconstruction of the county building and 8 primary schools in one county. These 8 elementary schools from the city of County are in Varazdin County, bus station if I am not mistaken in Osijek, and the halls are Koprivnica, Split and the third I do not know Varazdin. So we had something to analyze. To make a comparison that we funded these same projects with a loan, the effect would be that, and now according to the public-private partnership model, it's like this and the state has burned so many billions, millions, hundreds of thousands, so many taxpayers have financed less, the risk is less, and they've got the highest quality service because the model is perfect especially with the Spaladium arena in Split. It's not there. How is it that after such significant projects we pass a new law without an analysis of the effects of the existing law? This law is a guarantee don't forget that. Every citizen should get it to store it in his archives because this government gives a guarantee. What else is a public-private partnership? It's not debt, it's not debt, it's rent at 5, 10, 20, 30, 40 years. First of all, the state limits the responsibility of local self-government, regional and its own, which is good in terms of budget protection, but in a model of public-private partnership is not an obligation, not a 40-year debt, but a lease. What this lease ends up turning into euros or kunas doesn't matter. And what else is in common with these projects? Except for these two roads, it's about buildings. And how the models of the PPP and the attempt to encourage economic recovery go through investment in buildings if we haven't learned from our own experience let's try to figure out what happened to Spain and Portugal. And now, before I am again accused of populism and demagogy, I will say that I will quote a permanent representative of the International Monetary Fund, which in 2009 presented in China with international public-private partnership experiences and says in this presentation: "The public-private partnership brings potentially high fiscal risks". The truth is it says "the transfer of the risk is from the state to the private sector but it doesn't have to be because in the end that risk can fall on the burden of citizens or return to the burden of the state. Free infrastructure, how tempting it sounds if it didn't exist but. the public-private partnership potentially endangers the integrity of the budgetary processes and undermines the efforts to preserve macroeconomic sustainability and can potentially complicate the maintenance of financial discipline and good governance. High financial risks that often come true." It's a quote. And gives examples of Portugal highways that the state agreed towards traffic density, after the collapse and rescue attempts eventually had to set up tolls and introduce toll collection to save its interest. Great Britain, London University Hospital, declared the greatest dream come true. After the completion of the project, the state must give it several tens of millions of pounds of additional money because everyone was wrong in designing and implementing a ventilation system that prevented the operation of the University of London Hospital and the risk fell solely on the burden of the state. Hungary's A1 after 4 years of highways, the project is nationalised. Mexico highway after financial difficulties and in two attempts to resuscitate the state took over a complete project in '97 and found a $7.7 billion debt. During the takeover, she took that debt. If the projects that are on the market and even on a daily basis make cash, they bring such a risk, what about non-marketable facilities? What about objects that have no commercial purpose but exclusively rent and service users is a municipality, city, county or state? This risk is taken exclusively by local and regional self-government and state. One more thing, what if the Special Purpose Society goes bankrupt? And in six cases in Europe, it's been reported. And another thing, what if in a year there is a change in the municipal structure of the Republic of Croatia and half of the municipalities, 10% of the cities, the county and become regions are abolished? These contracts are taken over by those who are the legal followers of municipalities, cities and counties. And what do you think will be the big rock of interference when some county has to team up with a county that has a contract at JPP for 40 years out of a billion kuna? The debt is taken over by citizens of the county who ate and smelled neither onion nor onion. And that change doesn't have to happen in a year, it can come in 10 years. And important, according to the Budget Law, Articles 22 and 24 unless I am wrong about the Ministry of Finance by the end of April, and by the end of June each year, the government must adopt a strategy of government programmes for the three-year period. And Article 25 provides that the Ministry of Finance is to adopt guidelines for economic and fiscal policy at the latest by the end of May, and that the government must adopt guidelines for economic and fiscal policy in which the content of the strategic objectives of the economic policy, the basic macroeconomic indicators, the main indicators of fiscal policy, the assessment of income and expenditure, and the receipt, the proposal for a level of the financial plan, the envisaged changes in public debt and the Public Debt Management Strategy. The government's strategy should include, quote: the law, the overall common vision of the strategic objective, the macroeconomic framework, the main strategic areas of government action with the objectives set, the way in which the results are assessed, and at the end of the strategic priorities. If I'm not mistaken, it's July the month and if I've been able to check everything well, in 2012. The government has not adopted either strategy or guidelines. The only guidelines and strategies that exist are in July 2011. And now I ask the question whether this Law on PPP and forcing the government's public-private partnership model, Zoran Milanovic, is in the function of implementing the strategy for economic development and guidelines for the fiscal economic policy of the HDZ government set out in the document in July 2011. Because after that Croatia has no strategy, no guidelines, in accordance with Articles 22 to 25. Budget law. And don't make me laugh, which development strategy, priorities, investment we want this bill to execute. What are the priorities of this government and the Republic of Croatia to get something free through the model of public-private partnership, because the private partner will finance it, and the citizens at the guarantee of this Government get the lowest price for the established standard of public service. What sectors are these if we don't know projects, what are these areas? Health care, education, we want to build prisons. Which is why there is no reason why we are only discussing the law, not the sector or sectors, activities and activities according to the strategies and priorities established before the law, because the law must be a means of implementing that strategy. If we had received this strategy, if it had been adopted and published it might have been easier to understand why the first vice-president of the Republic of Croatia at all costs would have forced the model of public-private partnership at all costs. And those who know the situation in Varazdin County are aware of the fact that those who entered it, and municipalities, cities and counties, in the next 20 years their investment capacity is not zero but below. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11962	Correction of an incorrect allegation, Your Honor Schooker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11963	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, colleague Lesar, I'd just like to point out that what you mentioned about the eight projects in Varazdin County you forgot to say what's key, which is that the budgetary supervision of the Ministry of Finance...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11964	Comrade Shuker, you can't, in correcting an incorrect quote, say what's not mentioned, which your colleague forgot to mention, but you can correct if he said something incorrect. You need to formulate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11965	It's incorrect, then it can do this, it's incorrect that no one has responded, it can do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11966	What's wrong with that?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11967	That no one reacted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11968	You got it. Go on.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11969	Only I ask you fellow Stazic, I fully agree with you not to abuse the instruments but then treat the other colleagues as well and I will support it first.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11970	I treat everyone exactly the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11971	Here I am correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague Lesar...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11972	Here's the time we've stopped you so you don't say I'm taking your time, we're just trying to make it as close to the Rules of Procedure as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11973	Okay, no problem. Thank you very much for understanding. I'm correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague Lesar that no one has responded and that no one has any analysis. There is a budget surveillance report by the Ministry of Finance where all irregularities in the public-private partnership have been identified in the Varazdin County, only very interesting since the HDZ has not been in question for any institution in this country for four years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11974	Now that would be quite correct. In the name of the HNS club, the distinguished representative Natalija Martincevic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11975	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, the distinguished deputy minister with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here I would like first of all to express the great satisfaction that this law today is in front of us, which I believe we will adopt today and that we will finally allow for the construction and renewal of public buildings throughout Croatia according to the model of public-private partnership. Expected by those who would do nothing and build nothing and do nothing, that everything we want to do will be criticized, however, in my debate I will highlight all sides, the positive sides of this bill. As for inspection and audit, I have to look at this immediately, because your concubines and indeed sent a large number of audits to Varazdin County, all units of local administrations and self-government that haven't identified any irregularities because you believe that you would be the first to respond. Limited resources in the state budget, and in particular in the budgets of units of local and regional administrations and self-government, unfortunately today prevent any more serious construction and reconstruction, and we are all more than aware of the need to build new ones and, above all, to rebuild and reconstruct existing facilities in education, in health, in justice, social care, culture, etc. The needs at the level of the entire state to invest in this type of infrastructure are high. Public-private partnership is the best model that can be realised. In fact, the model of a public-private partnership works in a way that allows for much faster realization, construction of new and reconstruction of existing facilities. As I pointed out in the introduction, financial opportunities are currently such as to be able to think about the construction or reconstruction of only rare objects, and in this way we certainly will not provide not only better but also necessary standards in education, education, science, health care, justice, culture etc. The objective of this model and programme is of course to ensure, with the construction, construction and reconstruction of public buildings, quality conditions for built buildings that they meet the prescribed standards and quality over a number of decades of use and later generations of users of these buildings have secured the conditions that existed in the first years after construction. This model ensures quality construction precisely because private partners, i.e. contractors in the contractual period, so for 20, 30 years, are responsible for maintenance, i.e. for all possible deficiencies, repairs, etc. Therefore, it is not in the interest of a private partner to build on a system that is unfortunately very common with us today, which is held by water while the masters leave, but rather by a private partner or performer in the interest, most of all, in the interest that the construction is of high quality so that its costs during the maintenance of all these years are as small as possible. This solves the problem, therefore, that the current ways of investment in public buildings have resulted in unequal standards, unequal quality and cost of construction. In addition, the number of realisations and investments in these areas so far do not satisfy either the pace of realisation of investments, nor the quality and cost of projects themselves, which is mainly due to overruns of planned funds and deviations in the realisation of public buildings. And particularly poor has proved to be the management and maintenance of public buildings in this sector. In addition to all mentioned, one of the major benefits of this particular model is the strong launch of the fallen construction industry and, of course, the construction industry and all other industries that are related to construction and reconstruction, which are wood, metal, lots of small craftsmen and entrepreneurs, who are likely to preserve companies and crafts just like this, and thus what is the most important jobs for all. What is further crucial in this law is a clear definition and, of course, a simplification of procedures and a reduction of deadlines. The current law envisioned an extremely complex procedure and deadlines of 180 days for the collection of various consents and opinions in certain phases of the implementation of the project. Such a complex procedure, but also the indeterminateness of the law in terms of non-transparently highlighted criteria, based on which the agency issues or does not issue consent, has deterred public authorities from taking advantage of the public-private partnership and this model, except in the Varazdin County where it was launched and implemented, in fact, nowhere else has it even been brought to life. So we've missed some time and many for the lives of citizens of important projects have not been achieved, but this law changes the climate and opens the doors to local administration units and self-government to take advantage of all the advantages of this model. What is further important is that a change in funding method is precisely in favour of units of local administration and self-government, which is now being co-financed by the state 55%, the county 35%, and units of local administrations and self-government, i.e. cities and 10% municipalities. With the county obligation actually involved a part of the decentralised funds, which actually means even less burden on the county budgets. And, of course, it is important to stress that, after the end of the contract with the private partner, the building remains in permanent ownership of the units of local administration and self-government, i.e. the state. This is about a model that has long been recognized and widely used for many years in all EU countries. Last year, the total value in public-private partnership programmes was 18 billion euros, and in record 2007 nearly 30 billion euros invested in construction in the highest percentage of education projects such as the one in Varazdin County, but also in railway projects, highways, etc. And I think that one of the countries that really predicates is France and Great Britain that have been using this model very successfully for the last 30 years. So, we didn't design it, it was designed by others long before us we just need to successfully apply it. For the time being, here I am now going to give you a concrete example from the EU and an example from Varazdin County which is an extremely, extremely positive example. The public-private partnership was therefore one of the projects in which they were launched during the Mayor of Cacic in Varazdin County and are now very successfully implemented on the entire state. Thus, 33 buildings were built in Varazdin County according to this model, the first of which was the County Palace that was before the total destruction and was completely restored and as such it is truly proud of the city of Varazdin and the county. But what is important, so the greatest results achieved are actually in education. 19 schools and 10 sports halls were built and built. Benefiti of this project on the example of the Varazdin County with the obvious that students as well as teachers and teachers were allowed to work in new beautiful equipped spaces are also that the additional school space has brought the organisation of teaching in one shift where 87% of the students now attend classes in the Varazdin County in one shift in the appropriate time. New square meters created conditions for a new network of primary and secondary schools and programs and enabled the development of secondary schools in Varazdin as centres of excellence. High schools outside Varazdin grow into high school centres that offer diverse programs to bring education closer to the place of the pupils' dwellings and thus reduce the cost of education. A number of new programs and bilingual vocational schools, a high school programme for athletes, special programs for talented students were launched on the basis of new and equipped spaces, and the results are seen in the latest results of our students in all competitions in the country. All schools have been enabled to implement EU projects. The final already visible result with the need to say free transportation of students who were also introduced to the Varazdin County in 2006 and who will now be implemented at the level of the entire state by thanks to God strongly raises the Varazdin County in the field of education to which the figures testify that 30% of more high school students are enrolled and 80% of the number of high school students is increased. These spaces are also used for various free activities, but also for various lifelong learning and adult education programmes. Here I am just a little bit now, given that the Varazdin County has called out from the beginning, explained on a concrete example of the proven benefits of using a public-private partnership model in education, and the same effects can be produced both by good and rapid construction and restoration of facilities in health, culture, justice etc. And perhaps it is important for the end to mention that this model also avoids the former government's favorite method of decision-making on the financing and construction of objects according to political resemblance. We all know very well that schools and hospitals were built where HDZ was voted. In Varazdin County, we do not have this practice of supporting HDZ, so all these past years we would have been greatly cut off, and that is why it is good that we have taken over good EU practice and introduced this model. This model allows all counties, cities and municipalities to decide on their own what to build and what to provide and enable their citizens. So there's no one to push for anything, and no one to force it, units of local administration and self-government to decide what they're going to do, whether or not they're going to do it. And if it's going to be good and it's going to be profitable, the agency will decide. Because the agency has mechanisms to check the difference between classical construction and construction according to the public-private partnership model. If classical construction is shown to be cheaper then it will go to the model of classical construction and demand of units of local administration and self-government for example of public-private partnership will be rejected. The experience of the European Union, I look back at them, shows that the model of funding through the public private partnership model is 17% cheaper than classical construction. Finally, it is an excellent programme that confirms all the European experiences mentioned, as well as experiences from the Varazdin County. And this law that finally, in a real and transparent way, is governed by a model of public-private partnership. HNS's club provides a lot of support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11976	Thank you very much. We have several corrections of incorrect allegations. The first quote will correct the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11977	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So it's an incorrect allegation that an esteemed colleague was sending audits and inspections. The audit is an independent body, after all, everyone here is always boasting when you're discussing it, so please stick to it. And secondly, the truth is that budgetary supervision has identified a series of irregularities in these projects and that units of local self-government are over-indebted by the Budget Law because of these projects. It's true and it's a fact, you can't get away from it. And if it were as wonderful and wonderful as you say it would not be this virtually third version of the Public-private Partnership Act compared to when it happened. So there's budgetary surveillance that's identified a series of irregularities. And you can't get away from it, but I'm telling you that HDZ did it, then we'd probably all be buzzing about it, but this way it's pushed somewhere under the carpet.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11978	And the esteemed Dragutin Lesar wants to correct some incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11979	My colleague Martincevic, two allegations. The best model of public-private partnership and you set an example for the Varazdin County, although you shouldn't have, you forgot to mention how many kunas. And secondly, exactly six times you said, local administration and self-government. In Croatia, there is no local administration and self-government, but state administration, local, local and regional self-government. Saying local administration and self-government is about wooden iron. There's no local administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11980	The correcting of the incorrect quote was also reported by the respected Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11981	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's what I'm going to do is I'm going to correct the incorrect quote of a colleague where she claimed that until now, by political resemblance, she's been sharing money for projects, it's only where they voted for HDZ there was money. That's incorrect, because in Rijeka 4 billion kunas were invested in campus, in a bypass, and all other projects, and HDZ never had power in Rijeka.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11982	And the last correction. Dear Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11983	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's the thing I'm correcting to my colleague is that it's not true that it was built only in those units of local self-government where HDZ is, but also in other units where it wasn't HDZ. By Istria, by the famous, etc. We will not speak of the Word. But at the same time, I would also say that this exposure you were talking about, about a public-private partnership, not a single unit of local self-government, a small rank cannot apply. Have you ever worked in local administration units or have you been involved in any kind of entrepreneurship? This model is a disaster for small units of local self-government and it would lead us all to ruin. If one facility costs 50 million, and you through a public-private partnership you have to pay 150 million so who's crazy about it. So who's crazy about it? Then every unit will go as Mr. Lesar said, I'll take a loan at 6% interest and finance it. Not to pay three times as much as you did in Varazdin. [[Optionary Vice President: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11984	We're continuing the club debate. The HDZ club will feature a respected representative, Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11985	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected deputy ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. So this Law on Public-private Partnership is indeed a very important law, for several reasons. First of all, this law should also make it possible to make faster and better use of unused state, i.e. public property and thus contribute to economic recovery. Secondly, it should speed up investment growth and economic recovery, which should speed up the natural growth of private, domestic and public sector investments. And by opening that potential for investment and economic recovery, of course, you should slow down the growth of public debt. However, this is a separate topic and I will look back on that later, because it is really and really important, as colleagues have already mentioned. I will briefly remind us all that in fact the two HDZ former governments have worked on the foundations and laid the foundations for the very concept of a public private partnership that has existed for decades in the European Union countries since 2008 when the Public Private Partnership Agency was established in November. Guidelines have been adopted and all relevant acts and regulations have actually been adopted in the following year to ensure that the public-private partnership works. Of course, this past time has been used, it hasn't been so long, but it should be said that public-private partnerships, education is very important. So, of course, not only were the employees of the Public-private Partnership Agency educated, but those who are potential users of such projects and themselves of the entrepreneurship community. I stress this word of education here, because given the complexity of these projects, given the long term, so for many decades the duration of the education project for all participants is extremely important. And I want to mention the fact in the introduction, which is actually the biggest investment project and the new government, the left government has been taken over from the former government in the last six months, is such a project of public-private partnership. It is Zagreb Airport, and it is also the largest approved project of public-private partnership so far, and we all look forward to the start of construction, I hope, in 2012. I also hope warmly that this project will show and be a future example of how the public and private sectors, i.e. the public and private partners, can achieve their set goals. I see them like this, and in the name of the club I can say, the private investor of the French consortium, we expect to realize really and efficiently and quickly a great investment, that they will do a great job not only for their company but also for all the employees at the airport, but also for our entire country. What we expect from the public sector, for our country, is that through the next, future growth and tax revenues. We also hope to soon and grow employment, in fact over a period of 30 years we will receive a concession fee, and what may be most important, after the expiry of 30 years, we will take over, not only built buildings and new airports, but we will also take over the entire business of Zagreb Airport, the future. I cannot mention here the initiative I launched several months ago with our emigrants from central Germany, I have not yet received an answer from Prime Minister Milanovic, which is that the airport is named after the first Croatian president, Dr. Francis Tudjman. as is the case in several countries, not only the European Union, but the United States. But let's go back to the bill itself. Well, first of all, I want to sincerely praise the government's efforts to make this important law, so that a good proposal is made, and I think it's a good part of what has been done. What I don't think is commendable, which is that we have the urgency of the procedure again. I think this law is too important. It has really long-term consequences, or it can have long-term consequences, and I don't think it's good to have an emergency procedure. We heard that the agency had good advisers, which is probably why the proposal itself was good. What I personally care about most is whether it will all have the effect that we want to achieve in view of the fact that these 6 months, unfortunately, the overall business environment in Croatia and the entrepreneurial activity is in decline, given all the procedures that have actually been pushing the business sector into the problem in these six months. Taxes are retroactively charged, and we expect not only the domestic but also the international private sector to appear as potential investors. So in that sense I think this law itself will not solve our problem. I think the problem is somewhere else, which is that it simply needs to change the entrepreneurial climate in general in Croatia. I think the tax framework must be established and each other so that domestic and foreign entrepreneurs can plan in the long term, and these are actually projects within a very long time. A few important notes ago. As far as this law is concerned, I have a very technical one, and that is said in the bill of law, I will quote the administrative time of issuing the consent of the Ministry of Finance and the Agency. He's thinking of, of course, the Public-private Partnership Agency. It decreases from 180 days to an indicative time of 30 days. It's a finished quote. First of all, I think if we're already talking about 30 days, then there's no need for him to write here in a frame. Because it's either 30 days or no deadline, and it's not true that so far it's been written in the former law for 180 days. It wasn't like that. So, theoretically, the whole project, or preparation, could take 120 days to include 3 steps and 3 important steps in those 120 days. When I read them to you, you will realize that this is important for some future development of these projects. So, 60 days lasted a period for the project proposal. Of course, during that period, the promoter spoke first of all to the agency so that the project proposal itself would be properly drawn up. 30 days was the deadline for the tender documentation and then 30 days for the draft contract. I'd like to believe that this deadline is really possible for 30 days. That would be great. I don't have anything, though. I mean, without any false irony right now. It would be great if in general all administrative procedures could come down to 30 days. And I think that in this year, if it could be achieved from the public administration's position towards all investors, whether it's private companies or public it would actually be the most significant contribution to our economic recovery. And now three very important notes. When it comes to the Law on Public-private Partnership. Well, first of all, I think it is essential for the general interest and for the future success of these projects, of course, the relationship of a private and public partner, i.e. that this relationship be in the future after the start of the project is fully balanced. I think it was quite achieved by this bill. However, what remains, I apologize, an open question, which is a risk of charging a private partner in case the local self-government unit actually won't be able to comply with its payment obligation, and then, of course, it opens up a much bigger and more important topic, and that's who in that case will pay whether the state will. And can we really, in that case, talk about not increasing public debt, and in fact, in that way, avoids that debt growth in some way. So another more important topic. As I mentioned earlier now, the impact of public private partnership projects on our public debt. In addition to the issue of perseverance and of course we expect all concentrated supervision of all these projects. And I welcome, of course, and the previous law intended for all this to be publicly available and all the information related to all these public private projects. What is particularly bothering us is the fact, which is that projects that will last 20, 30 or 40 years, or exploit these buildings, will happen under this law. And if units of local self-government assume the obligation to pay rent and be, i.e. We are afraid that in many cases in fact, and this has so far shown itself in the so far mentioned Varazdin County on many occasions happens that units of local self-government will not only be able to pay those charges for use but will be left without income in the long term, that they will actually get into problems, not to say that they will in some way come into bankruptcy. And then it's not just a statistical question where the debt will be booked tomorrow, of course, but it's also a question of how this local self-government will live. And finally, and not least, under number three, an extremely important observation, which is that, in fact, before this law, we would all expect a clear strategy which we really want to achieve in the coming years and decades through a public-private partnership. This does not surprise us in HDZ because for months we have actually spoken publicly, we warn that not only for a public-private partnership but in general that there is no economic recovery strategy and that actually this government has no plan to get Croatia out of the crisis, and then there would be no reason to expect that there is a clear strategy to be achieved by this Law on Public Private Partnership. So, once again I will stress this issue of strategy is extremely important. You'll agree for sure, and it doesn't matter if, where, how much we build airports on one side or on the other, we'll build schools or sports halls on the one hand. Here's the conclusion. So the bill is solid. What we're going to insist on anyway, and that must be a clear long-term strategy, which, where, how we want to build. Finally, I have to say, since here are the six months already already more in the Croatian Parliament, it has taught me that it is quite popular to speak in proverbs in Latin and Croatian. So I'll say let's not really let the road to hell in this case be filled with good intentions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11986	Honorable representative Natalija Martincevic wants to correct some incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11987	Here I would like to correct the incorrect assumption that it is possible for units of local self-government to run out of funds and that they cannot finance it primarily for reasons why the Ministry of Finance gives consent. And also what I was saying in my presentation and it says clearly in the law that the cost-comparator clearly counts that car units can hold out or can't hold out. And I would also like to ask my HDZ colleagues who have been on a continuous basis lately in their views to agree that there are a lot of us here in the debate, we will debate for a long time. In fact, fellow Milosevic is concerned about whether there will be sufficient entrepreneurial climates to make use of this law in full potential while other colleagues claim that it is not good enough and that it will ruin everything for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11988	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of HSU, the esteemed representative of Vishny Fortuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11989	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with Associates. We have before us a proposal for a law on public-private partnership. I would say here that the Republic of Croatia has years of experience in this area. Since 2006, guidelines have been adopted where the objectives of the association of public and private partners in the provision of public services have been defined. In 2008, the Croatian Parliament adopted a current Law on Public Private Partnership, which represents a detailed development of guidelines and, as is known, was established by the Agency and adopted a regulation with a view to monitoring the implementation of the projects. The complex procedure and the long deadlines certainly made it difficult to apply the PPP. The current law does not fully define a public-private partnership, which represents one uncertainty. The criteria on the basis of which the Agency and the Ministry of Finance issue their consent have not been clearly established. These are all one of the reasons for the need to draw up exactly this new proposal of the Law on Public-private Partnership. The draft law harmonizes the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquiss of the EU. The key changes to the proposal for a new law are to reduce the time of granting consent to 30 days from 180 so far and thus make legal certainty more accessible to the application of the public-private partnership model, which is ultimately one of the reasons for this proposal of the Law on Public-private Partnership. Today, at a time of crisis, insufficient investment projects, any change, clear criteria and conditions based on public procurement principles, principles of public interest protection and economic principles will foster opportunities for new investments that are needed at this time. I therefore draw attention to the application of the public-private partnership model in the field of social care, which would allow faster implementation of capital projects, which most often refer to the construction of social care institutions. I would especially like to highlight homes for older and powerless people for whom we today have identified insufficient accommodation facilities. In the city of Zagreb, more than 6 thousand users are waiting for accommodations in institutions, and most of them refer to stationary forms of care. The institutions for older and powerless where the founder is local self-government in the city of Zagreb have 11, private homes 21, and family around 15. All this together and all this is not enough these capacities are not enough to provide accommodation facilities in Zagreb to all those who need them. I don't think I have to explain that part, if I took the number of pensioners and elderly persons in Zagreb compared to the number of accommodation facilities and those waiting, it's clear that these are insufficient capacities but I think it's a similar situation in the entire Republic of Croatia. I would like to remind you here that more than 51% of pensioners are now receiving a pension of up to 2 thousand kuna. I don't think this information is even asking for an additional explanation because it's clear that with 2 thousand kunas today we can pay maybe only the directors. So it is our duty to provide them with adequate care and one of the forms of adequate care and accommodation in institutions for old and powerless persons. This is why HSU sees, through the model of public-private partnership, the only possibility of providing the necessary capacity for pensioners and elderly persons. At a time when there is no sufficient funding for large projects, the new Public-private Partnership Act will contribute to greater activity in the field of social entrepreneurship and the direct social benefit will be manifested through improving the quality of life of users of accommodation and also greater employment. We are therefore convinced that this law and the model of public-private partnership will create new opportunities for building new accommodation facilities that are extremely needed and therefore the Club of Representatives of HSU will support the proposal for a new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11990	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, MP Igor Radinovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11991	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We therefore have before us a new proposal for a Law on Public-private Partnership, not an amended and updated bill, but a whole new proposal. I will remind you that my colleagues said before me that the Law on Public-private Partnership brought this Parliament relatively recently and in October 2008. The subject of a public-private partnership is obviously many controversy in the public, there have also been critical discussions in the debates of clubs before me. It has a history that dates back to 2006 its history in this House when guidelines for the application of contractual forms of public-private partnership have been adopted, defining the objectives that are to be achieved by joining a public and private partner in providing public services. These objectives are primarily risk sharing, and then the use of the knowledge and skills of the private sector, encouraging new innovative solutions, and introducing competition by uniting and optimising the construction phase, as well as the maintenance phase over a long period of time. In today's time exhausted and state budgets, especially the budget of local self-government units, do not stop the need for quality facilities of social standards. Schools, kindergartens, health homes, homes of pensioners spoken of by my predecessor are absolutely necessary, and the drive to provide public buildings through public services to build in as large a number as possible and to impose more quality on the need for precise standardisation of public services with the ultimate objective of building public buildings in a way that delivers the set standards at least possible public costs. In order to achieve these objectives, it was much more precise to prescribe the process of proposing and approving JPP projects, and therefore this new bill is now ahead of us. In fact, almost all today's public-private partnerships projects, of which only 12 were registered in the register, were approved before the entry into force of the still applicable Public-private Partnership Act, while the derogations to that law were only three projects at the stage of preparation and one project was recently completed by the conclusion of the contract. So in almost 4 years, only 4 projects best show the need not for changes and supplements but for the adoption of a whole new and far more concrete law. One of the more significant reasons for the failure and ineffectiveness of the existing law was a complex procedure and long deadlines for a total of 180 days, said counterpart Milosevic 120, necessary for the collection of various consents and opinions at certain stages of project preparation. Of course, the administration in practice could have been a bit faster and reacted faster than scheduled deadlines but experience teaches us that it is far and always better set a far better scale far more. Therefore, this proposal shortens the procedure itself to only 30 days, so six times less than the existing or four times if it is to trust the former minister. A thin link within these deadlines could possibly be the Ministry of Finance and issuing their previous consent to the proposal for public-private partnership projects. The activities of the Ministry of Finance are, in fact, precisely described in this law in Article 11 of this Bill. This danger is particularly highlighted in the light of the provision that any non-determination of the request considers that consent has been granted in favour of the public body. The Agency will certainly not, with these shorter deadlines, be a narrow throat since the public-private partnership is a simplified, said core business and the only business of that agency, and I believe that the Ministry of Finance, within all its tasks, will organise its work in a way that Article 9 of this law will never happen in practice. The other most important changes proposed by this law are the more precise definition of a public-private partnership in the part relating to the mandatory risks to be taken by a private partner, in order to register the public partner's obligation in his business books as a lease rather than a debt. This law then sets out the content of the public-private partnership contract itself, and the novelty is that, for the purpose of reducing the financial obligation of the public partner, it also allows partial commercial use of the public building during the period when the public service is not delivered to the users for which it is built. The main objective to enable this law is therefore to deliver the building to the contracting authority in the most efficient way, respecting all the debt constraints of the public partner, but also taking into account the same status as current and future users of public services and the right to inform taxpayers of all costs incurred not only by building but also by maintaining them in the multiannual and most often for several years maintenance. Therefore, at the heart of the attention of this law, the decision-making procedure for a public-private partnership, which requires that a complex budget for each public building be drawn up for the justification of construction, etc. Comparator of public sector costs. It shall, in addition to the budget of the ability to pay long-term commitments by the public body that initiates the whole process, assess and be able to pay the public service price by end-users. A transparent calculation of whether the PPP model achieves the best relationship between quality and public service and its price in relation to the traditional model of public procurement, either directly from the budget or possibly through credit. This transparent calculation and its public disclosure are thus becoming the best instrument for the protection of taxpayers. What are the main advantages of investment in public buildings according to the public-private partnership model compared to the traditional model of public procurement mentioned. First, the public-private partnership takes into account not only the cost of construction but the total cost of living that it entails in addition to the costs of construction and maintenance for the time of the contracted period. Experience has shown that maintenance costs during the period of public construction use are very often several times higher than the construction costs themselves. It often happens in us to build objects to build some political monuments, I will not now mention many of our famous political... and then, as an inevitable consequence of this megalomania, the funds for regular maintenance are subsequently denied. And then what happens in reality? Objects are rapidly collapsing, their life span is shortened, and as such they are ultimately becoming the most expensive, and about the threat and potential threat of users of these objects not to speak. The second advantage is that the public-private partnership procedure requires the first to calculate the total cost of living according to the traditional model, that is, the model in which the public body is an investor and an organiser. take all the risks associated with construction and maintenance of the building, and subsequently assess the total costs in the event that some of the risks... are therefore transferred to the private partner. Only after that is the public procurement procedure where the competition mechanism is used to determine whether any of the private bidders can do so at a total of less cost of life. Therefore, only when the procurement process confirms the justification for the transfer of risk to a private partner is decided on the conclusion of a PPP contract. The third advantage, I mentioned earlier, refers to transparency where taxpayers have a clear control mechanism, whether the agreed standard of public service quality is delivered at the agreed price. In traditional delivery, there is no such possibility, the recent examples of the practices of some of our investments that are often under the PPP projects, which are not in reality, also prove simply in practice by taxpayers unconditionally pay increased maintenance costs without any possibility to control these costs. Finally, not least, JPP projects respect the fact that today and future generations enjoy the same standard of public service at equal prices, while traditional models of the future generation at best pay equal costs, but for a smaller standard of public service. The SDP advocates' club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11992	Thank you very much. That's what ended the club debate. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is the honourable representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11993	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Deputy Minister. I understand that Mr. Domagoj Milosevic and HDZ advocated a public-private partnership, which is quite understandable to me. I understand that even if the public-private partnership stands for it, for the model it advocates the HNS, it either must or really trusts its President Cacic, and also because of the party's character it is quite understandable. But I don't understand why the social Democrats are fighting for a public-private partnership, here's why I don't understand. A public-private partnership is certainly a liquid or if we include consequences for citizens of several generations we could say the currents of neoliberal capitalism. Certainly, there is no question about it when we see who is the beginner of a public-private partnership, when it began and why. When a public-private partnership is glorified, it's said, I heard here in the debate, that it's the best model, no analysis. A public-private partnership has been said to have been revived in one county, it has revived several projects, and it would be quite fair when the ministry proposes and it says to run an analysis, how much it cost individual public-private buildings, citizens to public-private partnerships, how much would it cost, how much would it cost to borrow, built by a loan or state or local self-government, with which interest and should give some comparisons. Earlier, the president of the Croatian Labourists cited some of the experiences from the world, from Europe where it is seen that no one is glorifying public-private partnerships as the model that is fastest, best and what is not said here whether it is the cheapest. Someone said no one would have to build buildings according to the public-private partnership model, no one would force anyone. Yes, except that political cabinets, as is usually done, will impose such models and will willingly consent. Everything that's hidden, and it's hidden as soon as there's no analysis, it would have been good if the MPs had gotten those analysis on the benches and we'd seen all these advantages and all these benefits. We know that several cities wanted to build sports halls by public-private partnership and when they calculated and when they put on a paper bill they saw that it was much more expensive, that it was several times more expensive than building credit and when they took the most unfavourable interest. It is said before, Mr. Radenovic said on behalf of the SDP club that it is cheaper and that it is more transparent. Why would that be more transparent? Which, by the way, can't be transparent if we want it to be transparent. And that maintenance without a public-private partnership cannot be controlled by maintenance and that maintenance exceeds several times the cost of building buildings regardless of whether it is a hall, road or any other facility. I can only agree with that if I see some comparative data. What it costs to maintain, really maintain a building, a sports hall, and how much when all of this is summed up to 40 years, when compared to the final price, it costs building a hall of citizens with a public-private partnership. No idolatry, and especially not idolatry to neoliberal capitalism is good. So I think that regardless of the big words that maltene is a rescue for Croatia, it proves enough for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia when order is made in a public-private partnership, and order has been made by the law so far in force then 14 projects have been approved, after the law has been passed they have been approved, in preparation 3 projects and 1 has been completed. Is it just the law? I don't think he's guilty but it's been built, actually allowed to build 12 objects because before the law was passed, it was el dorado. I wish this law allowed everything you said before and that a public-private partnership would help the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but I think it is quite the opposite that a public-private partnership is what is already said model by which the costs are public and profit is private. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11994	We have a few interventions here now. We have two corrections to the incorrect quote and four replicas. We'll start with the corrections. First respected representative Natalija Martincevic. You applied for both, didn't you?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11995	No, no. Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11996	I'm sorry, then. I saw it wrong. Correction of the incorrect quote Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11997	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Vuksic, on several occasions, imputed not only to us in the HNS but also to his colleagues even from HDZ, and in a way indirectly and from the SDP that we are idolaters of neo-oliberal capitalism, but were even understood from the exposure that he considers us to be a party of neo-oliberal capitalism. The correction of the incorrect assumption is that we are not a party to neoliberal capitalism because it could be argued, but of course it does not fall under the incorrect assumption, as well as I could, with much more arguments, claim that the laborers are not a party, and he probably would not like it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11998	Now we move on to replicas. First respected representative, Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u11999	Dear colleague Vuksic, so I must admit that I was a little surprised by your observation that you are surprised that the SDP supports this bill, so I would like to remind you that the Labour Party in Great Britain was an extremely large advocate of exactly the public-private partnership model, and you are coming from the Labour Party, so in this context I do not understand your opposition to this model. I don't think the model is bad or good. It can be both bad and good, but it depends mostly on the government at local and national level.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12000	Branko Vuksic will respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12001	Mrs. Holly, what does the Croatian Labourers have to do with the British Labourists? I mean, what does that have to do with anything? I'm really surprised at you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12002	Another replica, the esteemed Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12003	Yes, there must be 200 more years of grass growing among Croatian Labourists to be like British. But take this as a joke. I don't think this is an ideological or secular question, it's actually a model that's famous in the world, which, despite the existing law, was not so clearly and well-defined, was not often used in Croatia. The adoption of this law does not exclude other models, so this classic model as I called construction, if there are funds in the budget, does not exclude credit models if the units of local self-government or state or which the contracting authority already wants and can, but this law creates assumptions unlike the existing law exactly this, and this is my replica to you, to make a more transparent decision. So, by carefully reading and recommending that you do so, if you carefully read this law then it will come to a far greater transparency, taking into account all the costs, that two models are obliged to make this conservative model also calculated and then to sub-assemble to the client, so the agency and it is a job to subscribe between the two models that are better and which is ultimately more financially profitable. He in some way not only favors a public-private partnership, but rather gives for a warrant, so models are mutually distinguished. And according to colleague Holly, the model is good, only that if everyone in the system does it honestly and responsibly, then it will certainly be successful in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12004	And this replica corresponds to the esteemed Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12005	Well, before you turned on the microphone, you commented before my line "In England they've been cutting grass for 200 years."and learn something from the English, don't change the laws every 15 days. And in the same day, to make amendments to those laws. And before you talk about public-private partnerships, two models will be evaluated, so evaluate these two models, evaluate now, give parity. The second thing, here in the debates members of the Kukuriku coalition are, speaking panegyrically about it. Dal needs to take the records and read the records, and that's all I've realized. Yeah, and I'm still surprised at the SDP still, how come the SDP, the SDP, I thought of a party that would assess what's better, show the data and kill this or what I'm saying, or what you're saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12006	The third replica of the esteemed Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12007	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, here's a colleague of yours who said exactly what the SDP said, and if you'd read the law, you'd see that in the law, Article 9. In addition to the request for approval of the PPP project, it must be attached. At least, keep an eye on the financial sustainability of the project. So whoever wants to approve a public-private partnership project must prove to the agency that it is a public-private partnership sustainable. Furthermore, Article 2 of the PPP, which will be respected in the Republic of Croatia, has already been defined. And one of them is the principle of economics, and what does economics mean? Economism means that something must be worth it, that something must be better and more rewarding than the other. You said you heard panegirics from a public-private partnership here. I come from the city of Pula which was one of the first cities in the Republic of Croatia to reach for a public-private partnership. Is the public-private partnership ideal? It's not. Is that always good? It's not. But it can be good and it can be a great instrument if it's handled properly, and based on this law, we create assumptions that this instrument is properly handled. The scalpel in the hands of a skilled surgeon saves lives if we give it to the ignorant kills. This law is a scalpel, I hope, and here I appeal to your esteemed colleague that this scalpel will be in the hands of a skilled surgeon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12008	Thank you. Reply to the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12009	He wouldn't rephrase anything to the gentleman. He didn't kill anything I said, nor was it an essential replica. Except for one really give yourself Mr. coat of arms learn one thing, don't start every replica, that you've read. Please be polite.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12010	The last replica of the respected Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12011	Well, here's a distinguished colleague, Vuksic, as you're surprised at us, which is why we're in favour of this bill, I can't honestly be surprised at you, Laburists. Why are you against the possibility to build kindergartens, why are you also against the possibility of building schools, which is why you are also against the possibility of building so much, as the Honorable representative Fortuna said, retirement homes? Here we give a model to make it possible, to make it quick, to make it quality and to keep track of the costs, and to monitor how it will be financed. Which is why you're against it, I'm very surprised.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12012	Answer for, reply to the replica Branko Vukšić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12013	Don't be mad. First of all, who said that we were against the construction of kindergartens, we're against doing kindergartens more expensive, and you were building in the Varazdin County too expensive, you owed the Varazdin County too much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12014	We'll have another replica. Tanya Verbat.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12015	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague Vukšić, it is true that social democracy would not advocate models of a public-private partnership, but that if they lived in an ideal society, an ideal state, and had an ideal budget, budgets and if all units of local self-government and other levels of government could finance everything for the needs of their fellow citizens. But in the reality in which we live, we allow those units of local administrations and other levels of government that want to build something, and they don't have the means themselves to build certain objects or infrastructure. As for Croatian Labourists and British Labourists, I'm surprised, you're wondering what links between British and Croatian Labourists. I'm surprised you don't know that your representative in the European Parliament is sitting amongst us at our Social Democrats club where the British Labourists are sitting. So British Labourists and Croatian Labourists sit in the same club of representatives and represent the same political ideas at least in the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12016	And this replica will be answered by the respected Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12017	I don't want to talk about logic. Look, fellow Members, this is how you said that, and a colleague before you, you're going to allow a public-private partnership at a time of poverty expensive construction, it's like me who can't afford an expensive car, buying an expensive car because I don't know at 5.6 years or 10 years. It's the same for you. So, you did not disprove the thesis that it is the wetness of neoliberal capitalism for which you have spent the whole time, this government of Zoran Milanovic is behind it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12018	We're continuing an individual debate. Honorable representative Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12019	Thank you, Vice President. At the very beginning of my debate, I would like to say that I will support the adoption of this law. However, because it better defines a public-private partnership in a work relating to mandatory risks to be taken by a private partner. The content of a public-private partnership contract is also more clearly determined, documentation will be provided to make up a proposal for a PPP project. The time-limit for issuing the consent of the Ministry of Finance and the Agency will be shortened and what I consider to be the most important, however, is the criterion of the most economically favourable offer as the only criterion of choosing a private partner. As I said earlier in my replica on the presentation of my colleague Vuksic, I believe that the model public-private partnership is neither good nor bad, it can be very good, even more excellent, it can be cheap and can be effective. If the government at local and national level is fair, responsible and conscious, but can also be disastrous, if the government is unfair, irresponsible or careless. It is crucial that the government also has a vision at local and state level and that it knows what it wants and how it wants to come to its projects that matter to it and how much money it requires to compare whether the public-private partnership model will be competitive with another model that can come to the same result. If we don't have this strategic vision that we want, it means that we know what we want and how to get to it. And unless we have a fair and responsible government at local or national level, then we can have bad public-private partnerships projects that we have unfortunately had so far in Croatia. A public-private partnership can be a very good model for municipal infrastructure projects, especially in the waste management sector and in the waste water treatment sector. Unfortunately, in Croatia, we had some bad examples of a public-private partnership in the wastewater treatment sector because not enough attention has been paid to the whole cycle of the project. And it should never happen again as it happened in the city of Zagreb with a wastewater purifier to plan and realise projects that are greater capacity than the city really needs. Unfortunately, this could also happen in the waste management sector. And here I especially mean municipal waste burners. Unfortunately, in the city of Zagreb, the municipal waste burner is also well planned more than is necessary. The waste burner is planned at 300,000 tonnes. According to the latest waste management plan, which was not adopted in the City of Zagreb Assembly, even 400,000 tonnes, which is contrary to the European Union directives which require it to move into projects of primary waste selection, and unfortunately, by realising public-private partnership projects in Hungary ended in catastrophic results. In Hungary, they also went to waste management with the help of the public-private partnership model. They decided to implement projects of waste management centres based on mechanical biological waste treatment, including bioreaction dumps. And despite the fact that a lot of money has been invested through that model in these projects. The Hungarians are now having problems meeting the objectives set out in the European Union Directive, in particular under the Landfiel Directive, that is because through a model of public-private partnership, waste management centres on NBO technology do not meet the targets for reducing the amount of biowaste at landfills by 25%. And that is why Hungary will probably pay a lot of foam this and next year for failing to meet the objectives set out in the Directive. In this regard, states and local self-government units must know very well what they want. Are they even worth going to public-private partnership models? I would like to point out that the public-private partnership model does not in itself have to be an obstacle to the use of European Union funds because, for example, in Cyprus, the waste management project has just been implemented through the public-private partnership model and also through the use of European Union funds. What needs to be kept in mind is that, through the PPP model, projects that we need to realise, which we have committed to realising in the field of environmental protection, can certainly be realised significantly faster. That's where I primarily think about waste management and wastewater treatment. However, we need to weigh very well whether the overall benefits, or ultimately through the use of any other model, will not be counterproductive. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12020	Thank you very much. It's time for the esteemed representative of Damir Rilje.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12021	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, here is a respected colleague. As far as my paintings are concerned, don't worry about my pictures. I take good care of my paintings. Smart writes, someone else remembers. Whatever you want. As far as I'm concerned, here I am from my local self-government, and you probably have the same experience in your life to say why this law is so good and why I want to give a few words to his advantage and why I want to say what I want to say. And that means here's the esteemed deputy, I'm sorry I started this way, the associates and everyone else. I'm glad you're paying attention to important things like my computer search. But I'd like you to search yours, but I don't see them on your desks. Dear Labourists, dear colleagues from the HDZ, from the SDP, from the HNS, I must say that we are finally in a position to see that because we have no money, we are starting to use natural resources in a different way. And just because we don't have the money, we don't have the funds we can't borrow because the units of local self-government are over-indebted. Is that right, buddy? Yes, it is. Our loans are expensive. We can't get everything we can't get. Someone used it for some other stuff. Someone was building stadiums, someone was building planes, someone was building, I don't know, buying trucks. But we've run out of kindergartens, no communal infrastructure, not a lot of things we actually need in local self-government units. As far as the proposal for a law on public-private partnership is concerned, I would just like to say a few of my observations just by referring to the units of local self-government because they live there. And this Republic, the Republic of Croatia, our country is built precisely by units of local self-government and area of course. But they're from the local self-government unit, too. All of you who suffer torment with your budgets, however they may seem, whatever they may be. So here are a few thoughts that I think maintain the need to provide investment as well as the needs of citizens in the areas of the local self-government unit, especially in conditions where there is not enough capital to finance these investments from budget funds, and unfortunately neither the possibility of borrowing from banks. Let's say my unit of local self-government can't do that because it was three budgets when I inherited it, but it doesn't matter now. That's not the theme of this story. I just want to say that I can't get credit for something that my guard would like to build on his own. Do I get that from access funds? Probably one day that under the appropriate conditions and in a way that unless all the conditions applicable to structural funds are ensured, we've gotten something out of the way and how for which the rest of the project we have to pay back ourselves, and we also have to respect all the criteria required to use these funds, otherwise we return the money. That's what Mr. Calmett knows about Zadar. He knows very well. Say one bridge you can't make wrong, and we know there isn't only Pelješki exists and Ciovski, you mustn't mistake more than 5% of the traffic on that bridge otherwise hunting back, there isn't. Respectable arrangement of contractual relations between public and private partners at all levels allow me to point out a little more local level. I think this law is a well-organized relationship between a public and a private partner that carries the risk and availability of demand to a private partner. However, the use of this form of investment is due to the lack of sufficient resources by the public body. I also think about local self-government units. As provided for in the proposal for this law, it would be nice to shorten the time and procedure for the rapid and efficient arrangements in the process of implementing approved projects by the Public-private Partnership Agency. The agency should be a service to all public bodies and I hope that the bodies of local and regional self-government will be made available personally faster than before. I don't want to convince this bill here but to look for answers to some misunderstandings. The basics are the pooling of capital in the proposed way. Therefore, the contractual public-private partnership of the contract between the public partner of the body and the special purpose company which may carry out only activities for the implementation of the PPP project for which it was established. What if a private partner already has a company and is going to do exactly that kind of work in the building they're going to build? I guess you shouldn't then. The second is the status of a public-private partnership when working together, i.e. the establishment of a joint commercial company. The law provides that, for the purpose of implementing a PPP project, a public partner shall be transferred to a private partner the right to build or give a concession. The law also states that the subject matter of a public-private partnership cannot be exclusively the supply of goods as well as the exclusive concession for the use of general or other goods. Article 9 Article 8 also lays down criteria for the approval of a proposal for a PPP project. This proposal for a PPP project in line with the PPP is authorised by the public body to propose a definition of a PPP project that a positive advantage and value for money has been shown in... of the public sector sector, in other words that the project is profitable for the public body that the PPP proposal is in line with the content set out in Article 4 of this proposal of the law, that the acquired ownership of a public body over a public building which is the subject of a PPP project is envisaged for a contractual period of 50 to 40 years... Special law. [[/The speaker reads too fast, he doesn't understand.]] If there is an interest in building a building that the public body wants to enter, for example. local self-government units under the model of public-private partnership with the right to build and in order to ensure the public needs of citizens for whom the unit of local self-government does not have enough resources. The public body partner enters with the price of land e.g. and possibly work, today I have elaborated a little on the board and possibly the work currently taking place in that space, and the project aims to build a building that has a multiple purpose of which is part of the need for a general purpose. For example. Public garage, market, fishing and the rest is commercial. So, as has been mentioned so far in the current law in Article 27b, this current law is still in force. For example. A clearer relationship should be defined when the public partner can contract the construction of the entire building and claim the right to the part of the building to which the participation of the real rights and investment values is involved. For example. the value of the land, the value of the work being done on it and the like. On the other part of the building was able to claim the right of a private partner who would have the obligation to finance the total project. In this way, the public partner could enter more quickly, easier and cleaner in percentage, without those 4 or 5 or 40 years, respectively. In this way, a public body is in a position to be able to carry out an activity of public interest, and a private partner can carry out commercial work at the start of clean relations. Of course, if the public authority is responsible for the private partner’s performance and activity in the competence of the public body, for example. units of local self-government. You can make a deal, but you don't have to. So far, we have only had concession permits to carry out some municipal activities, for example or something else. A public-private partnership should be a form that allows for more free investment by private partners, but in a way that ensures investment and part of the public interest under legal and economic conditions, which would mean that the public body of the investment partner also pays off. I must also point out that in my unit of local self-government I have such requirements and opportunities and for construction with a market, fishing and garage with a commercial part of the building, waste processing with the production of waste blocks on our dump, a home for older people, a port of nautical tourism. Well, there was also an interested partner for the port of supply, for cruisers near the city. The Ministry's had this letter of intent a long time ago, and there are a few more that I won't bother you with any further. So, the fact is that it's hard, that my unit of local self-government, and I believe some others in some of their cases, will find it hard to afford themselves either by borrowing, or in some other way, this possibility, or the possibility to secure such investments themselves. I support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12022	On your show, we have three reported replicas. First call from a colleague, Franjo Lucic, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12023	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's my colleague. I listened a little bit carefully, but I didn't understand much of what you were going to say. Namely, you're off to a nice start, and I was just going to say that it's a good thing that you're coming from a really one city, and you're coming from a party that's in power today because you're not HDZ, but I realized in your statement that you're actually having the same problem as I am, no matter what I come from another party that isn't in power right now. What is essentially a public-private partnership, what is being offered and who will benefit from it. They will have that city, the municipality will certainly not because they will not have such funds, which has "enough" funds, but at the same time will pay for the project three times as much as it is worth. My colleague left here, but I'm just going to give you an example of one, so comparisons regarding the public-private partnership. The hall and the school in Koprivnica was built by a public-private partnership for 280 million kuna. Now look, there's a school built in Virovitica without a hall for 28 million kuna. So if we take what else that gym could cost, I'm asking you who can finance it. No one. And I agree with you but you said in the end I support this law, so amendments to the Law on Public-private Partnership. Look, it's a delusion. After all, every unit of local administration, my small unit of locals, yours in Trogir is far bigger, but you can't see either because you have a previous load time. But even if you didn't have it, you wouldn't be able to build it, be sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12024	Thanks, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12025	And this public-private partnership isn't going to get results, so be safe. So who's going to pay three times as much investment as it's worth or four times, here's even ten times as much paid. I apologize for the time we've been over.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12026	Thank you, fellow Luciæ. If I had the opportunity, I'd answer you, but I don't. Here's your colleague Rilje's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12027	Well, esteemed colleague, here's what I'm saying, you obviously didn't listen to me enough because I'm just waiting for the law to allow something to happen just by calculating the cost-effectiveness of the investment. Why is there a Spaladium Arena I don't know why there is this Arena in Zagreb I don't know. Whether someone was doing a cost-comparator, although they should have, regardless of what went in a different way of financing, regardless of what went into debt. But you must know that we have resources by which we simply have to take advantage. What I'm telling you are examples of life. In other words, I don't see that we have the same problem but we have the same possibility of a solution by adopting this law. The other thing is, we've done something in debt so far. And I'd like now to be able to maybe something somewhere for some project to put yourself in charge. Perhaps some will not be worth it, and I believe that for every possible public-private partnership so far, the calculation should have been carried out. Which is why it's not, maybe you'll know. You were maybe closer at that moment because we're all passing as you know. Someone stays longer, someone shorter, but we're all passing under the sky cap, right? In other words, I would like you to be able to provide good models of public-private partnership and in your community I believe you can.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12028	Thank you. Next line, Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12029	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague, I agree, of course, that this new model of JPP law will give a new note of transparency in a public-private partnership, but as head of the local self-government unit, we usually need to give and share examples of good practice. But I want to warn you, too, and others, for example. bad practice, which is the public-private partnership of Dubrovnik garage when an investment of 9 million euros came out 17 million and 900 euros when the hostage was the City of Dubrovnik, when he concluded with a company that had a core capital of 20 thousand kuna for a loan of 12 million 542 thousand euros. So one model that we really all have to look out for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12030	Thank you, too. We have an answer, Comrade Rilje, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12031	Dear colleague Tatjana Shimac-Bonačić, I'm going to tell you something you may not expect from me. The future is for the brave. I'd like to say that I can't say why in Dubrovnik what happened. Apparently, they weren't working on a public sector cost-summator. They probably didn't do it, which is why they didn't, I don't know, and I want to talk about it. I want to run just about all those protective mechanisms trying to ensure that public resources are exploited and nothing more. In other words, I'm not going to keep telling this story or deepening it on this line of yours. I just want to say that as much financial and market surveillance as possible about cost-effectiveness, and believe me, we have so much good as the dear God gave us and the grandfathers kept it, that we can certainly use it. The Italians make money on garbage, I have a dump and I can't make money on garbage, and I have a private partner waiting for me and wants to talk to him about it, and he wants to produce blocks to pave the streets or power panels, whatever I want. I mean not me, but my city, I'm not me when I work for the city. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12032	Thank you, too. And the last replica, colleague Zeljko Kolar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12033	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Rilje, you're right, of course you're right. This law absolutely forces no one to enter a public-private partnership, it offers only in the front environments the opportunity to be even more advanced. The question arises why all units of local self-government will not be able to enter such a model because they were simply destroyed during HDZ rule. Two, three times it entered the co-financing system of local self-government units. Remember, we've changed the tax code three times, so the budgets of local self-government units have been reduced, and then we've done the same thing twice, and of course the units of local self-government are in trouble. Your colleagues are laughing, you are the mayor and you are crying now because you have no investment, but we were not all in the same position to come to Croatian waters, to Croatian roads and to build, to get money with or without documentation. This will be a time for the capable. Those who will have a vision that they can wrestling with the market, those who will have opportunities and who will find their own account will go into that story, and those who simply won't find it will not go into it. My unit of local self-government is small and I probably won't be able to afford to go into that model, and maybe someone else will. If he can and if it's calculated that it's acceptable to him, I see absolutely no reason why he wouldn't go into it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12034	Thank you, too. We have a reply to the replica, my colleague Rilje here.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12035	Dear colleague Kolar, thank you very much, thank you for understanding, I'm glad you share your opinion. I just wanted to add to this that this is actually the only option, not absolutely the only option, but I can say almost so only for some units of local self-government that don't have fresh capital for investments and of course they have to and should try and activate and use those natural goods that they can use, and not sell them, to include them in the creation, and to extract profit from them, but not for Ante, not for Matta, but just calculating profitability for the local self-government unit, precisely for that unit of local self-government, or for its citizens. I think you'll have opportunities, I wish you the same as everyone else. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12036	Thank you, too. The next debate came from MP Vrbat Tanja. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12037	Thank you very much, Vice President. So I'll try to be brief and not repeat myself. I am glad that today we have heard a great deal of the arguments of our colleagues who run units of local administrations and self-government because they really know best in practice what it means to run cities and municipalities that do not have the resources to deliver those public services that their citizens need. And I believe that this new regulation on public-private partnership will at least make it possible for a part of them to better provide services to their citizens. I want to look back at one part that has not been mentioned so far, which is that this law bears the European law, that is why it goes through an emergency procedure. The truth, however, has no legal gain over a public-private partnership. This law, however, is in line with the business spirit and higher principles of public-private partnership which are governed by EU Member States and which we too must adhere to. This amendment relies better on the cumulated best practice of the Member States since the last 15 years when it comes to the public-private partnership institute. The amendment that is before us and which is proposed is therefore based on the best practices of European member states, but it should also be said that many EU members do not have at all, does not exist in their systems of the Institute of Public Private Partnership, they may not need it, but it is better to say not that they do not need it because no one has enough money to finance everything than he, the institute, is being brought back into practice through concession laws or public procurement rather than by specific law. However, we have opted for a specific law and in the last term we have repeatedly changed this law, I remember it. However, today in Croatia as regards public-private partnership, there is one project that is ready, which is previously mentioned in Zagreb Airport and two or three others that are in the final production of the project documentation, i.e. they are procedurally in the making and that is all for the Republic of Croatia. So that's just proof that this regulation that exists today is not good and that it has not met expectations. So first of all, we have come to the conclusion that it is necessary to significantly facilitate the procedure and to shorten this very complex and complicated process of obtaining documentation, i.e. the process of entering a public-private partnership. Today he comes down to 180 days. This change predicts cca for 30 days. I have to agree with colleagues who said that this formulation is not the happiest when it comes to the law because the law needs to be precisely defined, it can't be this kind of thing cca, it has to be precisely defined. More transparent criteria for selecting a public, or private partner have been envisaged, and the whole process is managed by the Public-private Partnership Agency and the Ministry of Finance. It foresees something which is the very essence of a public-private partnership and which is listed in previous discussions as controversial for us on the political left. Indeed, it is controversial in the left-hand theory of commercial use of public buildings and public institutions. However, this use of commercial use is foreseen by this amendment and must be very strictly determined. So tomorrow, there's not gonna be any kind of nightclub going on commercially at some elementary or high school, right? So, no one's gonna get that, I hope, and I hope that applying that law will be the spirit of that law. So you'll be able to deliver some kind of sports service on a commercial base or cultural. And all that schedule of providing commercial services and activities will give and will approve a public body which is a guarantee but is not exactly an exclusive guarantee. So, there, too, is to be monitored what these public bodies do, not a guarantee that the building will be used properly. And I do appeal to be led to the limits of public interest above all. So, there are good sides to the public-private partnership, ultimately the building, if the process is well carried out, if the tenders are well done, the building should ultimately cost less than in the classic construction models that depend on the ability of those who conduct the process. This includes maintaining investments which, unlike the classic construction models, is not usually, in practice not happening. This law is also in line with the legal criteria for the borrowing of units of local self-government, and part of the risk is passed on to a private partner. Therefore, the total price of the building should, if everything is according to law and according to best practice, ultimately as I said, be significantly lower. I am pleased, as it is also said before, that in these amendments the law has finally set itself as the criterion of the best economic price, not the cheapest bidder, because the cheapest price is not always the guarantee of the best service delivered, but sometimes it can be far, far and more expensive to finish. So I ultimately support these amendments to the law although I would like to live in an ideal society where public budgets could finance everything and everything, but reality is different today. And I appeal, therefore, that we strictly adhere to the spirit of this law and the public interest above all, and that sublegal acts and all the necessary rules so that this law can be implemented as soon as possible in practice, or projects under this law, to be implemented as soon as possible. The board said they were almost ready. I believe that this is so and that everything will be ready very quickly for its effective application because we really need to build, we need to hire, we need to start spending publicly to make the shift positively about getting out of the economic crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12038	Thank you, too. We didn't have a replica. Next up for debate, Josip Boric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12039	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the esteemed deputies, colleagues and colleagues. So this is one law, the European law in the section harmonising the choice of a private partner in accordance with the Public Procurement Act, as well as the concession procedure. However, experts say, and even more so, a politician, that when you want something from public content, we have been listening for a long time, that then the best way for this solution to a public-private partnership. It's kind of a material loan, and what I see in the state assessment shows that it's not exactly like that, i.e. Disabling us. We are, in, here is the assessment of the situation, visible the entire history of the public-private partnership in the Republic of Croatia from the 2006 guidelines, and the law of 2008 and the establishment of the agency. A whole period of time for only 18 projects of which 14 were in time while we had only a guideline i.e. No law. And now we come to a paradox that we agreed more when we didn't have the law, and almost little or nothing when we had the law. So this whole thing takes me to thinking. Now that we have this perfect law, I'm afraid we'll be able to send only these four that are now in preparation and one of which is contracted, and this is about the Zagreb Airport. Of these 18 projects, most agreed in 2006 and 2006 in Varazdin County, which we have heard about. There's now one of these four I especially like, and that's building a Western frog complex, so on. A bus station in the town of Rijeka or what Rijeka says, a bus station called the ženje. Why is that, so we've been listening to that bus station for ten full years, i.e. how every campaign for the mayor's election comes. Then for the first time, we are promised to build a new bus station. So we had 2001 to be done by 2005, so in 2005 it would be over by 2009, then in 2009 it would be over by 2012. However, the fact is one, it may be one of the larger cities in the Republic of Croatia that has no covered bus space, where people in the rain are boarding with umbrellas on the bus. And here's who the hell I'm reading yesterday, the city of Rijeka, is moving into a public-private partnership, looking for an investor. Given the city's duties and everything else, and the overall situation in the city, I'm afraid there will be an election campaign in 2017, so we'll hear again about the new bus station in the city of Rijeka. The fact is that one station is made of a public-private partnership in the city of Osijek and that is perhaps the most positive example so far of a public-private partnership. Because the city gave up land and resolved the paperwork for no money got a solution to a traffic problem and that's where the private investor found his interest. I'm afraid that's the only thing we can do in traffic because education is hard to expect, because I don't know what we could do inside a particular school, or sports hall, or another kindergarten offer a private partner to be worth it. Looking at the entire register, which lists 13, and somehow in the assessment of the state of 12, seductive objects, these seductive contracts. The question can indeed be asked how justified the public-private partnership is today in this situation where we are today. The fact is that at the time of the biggest construction offensive in order to call it 2005, 2006 and 2007, this partnership has produced some results. Today, however, construction operations are completely dead, and almost no activity is available. We're saying, here in Varazdin County we've had enough, here we've heard a lot of stories about how successful it is here and there. I will give that example of the city sports hall in Varazdin which is clearly visible through the contract, it is listed at 177 million value of capital investment. For 20 years, the monthly city of Varazdin is 2,800 000 kuna. 244 wars, total amount somewhere around 690 million kuna. Whether we're ready for such an adventure, I think every public active, especially the mayor, should think carefully about whether it is. I know that every mayor and chief wants to do something in his term, so when there's no possibility he's looking for the best way out of this situation. I'm afraid that in Varazdin County, it reached out precisely because it wanted to make an impression of success, and the facts speak differently. I'll remind you in 2008 the current mayor was then Mr. Cacic, removed. It was precisely because I was able to read from the Internet the reason that 832 million public-private partnership obligations were imposed on him. And to be absurd, he was replaced by two members of the HNS. So I'd really like this to work, because we need construction to start, to start investments. However, when we really see these amounts, they are frapan for both the Split hall and some other schools that have been upgraded, sports halls that have been built entirely. That your amounts are multiple, even 3 and 4 times bigger than what you could get that you took a normal loan and built it. And I'm afraid, I'm saying, because the mayors and mayors know that there's still grants, whether in terms of loans taken by the state, it can help them, whether from direct transfers from the state budget, and help municipalities and cities to build certain infrastructure facilities, and the most important opportunity they are European funds. I think every mayor and mayor will think clearly and well about what's most worth it to him because I'm putting myself in a situation of every man and asking what we would do if we needed an apartment, an emergency apartment? Would we agree to enter that apartment and we know that it is worth, say, 100,000 euros and that in 30 or 20 years we will pay it at 300 or 400,000 euros. So three or four times that. Of course they'd give it up. There are examples that are not public-private partnerships such as encouraging housing. It's a similar form, which is acceptable. But I'm saying in this section where we talk about public investment and public buildings, I don't think these are good solutions, regardless of what I say to the government's good will to start an investment cycle. And he has to run, I say, because here we have a presentation of Mr. Cacic from the second month of this year where a big investment cycle was announced. However, all these investments of billions and 230 of those required, here are the means that we need to invoice practically in this budget, I'm afraid we're going to see that. And not to mention the additional 600m euros he promised with some maximum effect from the state administration and with synergy with local self-government. So here we have the HEP group almost 280 million euros nothing. Croatia's 120m-euro water is only building what the HDZ government left behind, and this is that famous billion-euro loan where there were over 300 projects. There are no new contracts left. Croatian highway 200m, Croatian road 300m euros. I'm afraid it's triggered anything. Of course HZ 130 million. That's where my colleague Novak is looking at me. I don't know if they did anything. And then the Ministry of Economy and Regional Development goes 100 million euros each. I don't mean to be skeptical, but the fact is, we're in seven months today. That we do it all the way it's nicely imagined that we could only have the realization in 11, 12 months and it's only the beginning of the realization and that all of this about the investment cycle but also this law itself that needs to allow new investments simply remains a dead letter on paper. Because as much as we like, I'll go back to what Mr. Milosevic said to cut that deadline from 180 to 30 days. We have tried to reduce the deadlines in previous governments on the most common issues. I just don't know if we can really solve these problems in such a short time. Just one well-intentioned suggestion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12040	Thank you, too. Your debate has been heard very carefully. She caused seven replicas. The first one was a representative of Natalija Martincevic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12041	Well, Your Honor, I'm extremely glad you brought up the Varazdin Sports Hall. Because, namely, the Varazdin Sports Hall was agreed by the former Mayor of Chehok and your Prime Minister, Mrs. Kosor, and because of these particularly good jobs that Mr. Chehok has arranged, he has been taken into custody and is being prosecuted. So, so much for that model. The Varazdin County, headed by Mayor Cacic, has invested primarily in education. We rated education as our priority. The fact that you in HDZ consider it a priority to pay Thompson half a million kuna not to sing we don't consider it a priority. We consider investment in education priorities and for this very reason we have invested in a public-private partnership in building schools and halls so that our children, our teachers, our teachers can work in quality work, so that our children can be educated in quality. We think that's the strategic goal of this country. And as a third, you were talking about a fallen building. Well, yeah, this is exactly the way to crash the building out of the crisis, to run investment cycles and not just build, but all other sectors related to construction, wood, metal and other industries get out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12042	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Comrade Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12043	Well, I don't know why my colleague's mad at me. She seems pretty angry. I mean, I wanted to be well-intentioned. I said what it was and I didn't say anything false. I mean, if two members of the HNS changed their mayor, they had a reason. I don't know. And was it because he was a successful mayor back then and as it says here, how I was able to read on the Internet so many investments made, so I said it's just that basic amount I guess, and then it's three times or four times more in the next 20 years. So I merely cited examples of bad examples of a public private partnership, and I also told Osijek that it was a good example. Because the city didn't pay anything. He solved his traffic problem. A private investor has found his own interest. And I think maybe that way the city of Rijeka, my city of Rijeka, should solve that problem. I think it's a good example and I don't know what the lady has to get mad at. I think the facts speak differently.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12044	I didn't notice a colleague getting angry, but maybe it's such a temperament. The next replica of my colleague Rilje, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12045	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, dear colleague Boric. Well, I'm actually here, so you said something that just caused me. Maybe it didn't really challenge me, but it's just that the thing is that mayors and mayors don't have to do it for themselves. You know, what you just said. So, look for ways like this. No, that's what we should do for the citizens. 'Cause look, it's really hard when you don't get to the last minute and it runs out you know the last job for a first-class stadium, for example, that costs 48 million kunas roughly. For a small town like Trogir he's small, big, but that's a lot of money. And on the other hand, it's not important to do it for the term of office. The important thing is that citizens have a quality service, primarily a communal but every other one that concerns social upgrades. So, in this context, I wanted to say that every communal service, a service that can be provided, is available on the market. You know that as well as I do. So, with regard to the EU funds, you know. Because we had, we had a gentleman who was the director of a municipal company in Trogir, and suddenly he became a concessionist. So, I want to say about the EU funds, we used the funds as much as we could. Now we come to this period when we're going to need these structural ones and when we're getting ready for this four-year run, four-year use from the next four years, yes, the use of structural funds. As for the use of funds. Look, we're all in charge. You don't have any budget users, you don't have any more resources in structural firms. They're all more or less in debt. Everyone. It can't come to you now, at least they didn't come to me like Croatian roads or Croatian waters and do something. I heard they might have done it, and I don't mind. Let him do as much as he can for everyone. But there isn't, there isn't. The money's gone, the money's gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12046	Thank you, colleague Rilje. Time. Thank you. We have a reply to the replica of Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12047	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I know Mr. Mayor, and I know he's trying to do what he can. I therefore said at the beginning that when you want to make public content that you are always suggestions and politicians, but also some experts that public-private partnership is the best solution. Here, colleague Rilje says he wants to do something he doesn't have the money. I have set examples of why something is wrong and what is good for me. If he wants his own market, his own fish market or something where a private investor can find his own interest because he's going to rent space then it's something different than what we're always talking about here, which is schools, kindergartens, education. I don't know, halls, etc. You in education can't find a private investor who, on the basis of his private interest, will enter such a project unless he's paid, and the payments are all examples of what we've had here within the last 5, 6 years are multiple amounts than it would have been if we had activated or our savings so what we've now had to pay 30 million kuna for 5 years so we'll pay that gym and build it in one year and at 6 we've solved everything. We have been burdened here for 20 years and I don't know about Varazdin whether the state is helping since it was the World Handball Hall so that the city can function as well as the city of Split. And I know how many commissioners have problems, I've been dealing with this for eight years, and I'm not happy with this fact that I've recently seen that one island of Drvenik just doesn't have water, that one utility doesn't give people the water they have the right to get under the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12048	Thank you. Next replica of my colleague Devcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12049	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague who's very concerned about the investments that are going on in the city of Rijeka, so I can only tell you how well you know we are and without the help of the former government who tried to block us at every turn what she was doing on an example of the station just because we had a problem with the railroads. The railroad is a state-owned company and you knew how to do it very perfiduously but how we built both a pool and a hall without the help of this former government, so we'll also know how to build a station. And as for the construction of your halls, if you were building halls, you were building halls for the World Cup after that no one knows what would happen to these halls anymore, they're terribly expensive and you left a hot potato for this government. And the fact is, you loved investment and you built but with an extremely high commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12050	Thank you. We have an answer to your replica, Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12051	So here's another incorrect address, especially in this last part of the vice president, and I don't think this has anything to do with anything. You've been building halls or I don't know what to do for a commission. So is that insulting the MPs?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12052	I didn't understand that your colleague was thinking of you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12053	I don't know who she meant.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12054	She didn't mention you personally with high commissions.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12055	Yeah, great.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12056	The commission is a broad term, a broad term and can be interpreted differently so it was not directly directed to think that she was thinking of you personally. I don't think the personality was even hurt.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12057	It doesn't matter. As for the hall, of course, the city of Rijeka could not have built that hall in collaboration with the state when the commission sent by this EHF that was checking out the premises where the World Handball Championship was to be played they instead sent the janitor to show them the hall instead of the mayor. The man looked at the hall, went and said thank you very much, let's move on. That's how it was. As for the beautiful life in Rijeka, the fact is that the census has shown that over the last 10 years, 15 thousand people have left the city, embarrassing for such a large city. People are coming into town. It leaves the city, and there Kukuriku is in power even in one expanded form of a dozen parties. As for the pool, that investment almost put the city on its knees because they built it themselves. The fact is that this city has more and more problems and that people there don't see their future. It's a town of pensioners and pensioners. And I would personally like us to have this bus station building, which I would be against, but the fact is she's been promising for 10 years from election to election and now there's going to be a television announcement before the elections and we're going to watch the futuristic pictures of that facility again, but the fact is that he's gone. It's the only thing relevant to me, and all of these demagogues about government non-investment we've already denied. 4.5 billion just in the last two years and we haven't attacked them. If the government had made a detour, and all the rest of the question is what would be of that city today.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12058	Time, buddy. Next replica of counterpart Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12059	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's a colleague of mine set an example of the Varazdin Hall that was already mentioned, so I'm glad he mentioned it. And precisely because the HDZ government has been applying a public-private partnership one completely wrong way and that is why this law is needed and that is why we also support it at the HNS club. and I am very surprised that on behalf of the HDZ Club, it is said that it is supported by the law that the honourable representative thinks that it is not good for this matter to continue to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12060	Thank you. We have a response to the replica of Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12061	Well, I didn't hear that we said we'd support this law, I didn't hear that from Mr Milosevic, who exhibited on behalf of the club. We've made remarks on this law and I think we've discussed it correctly and debated it. I've given examples that aren't good even though it's only a matter of local belongings when I told you about the town of Varazdin. We have other examples of ourselves and it's not that problem at all, we can transfer it to a smaller municipality or city in Varazdin County, and we'll get about similar results. I don't see what's the difference between 177 and 680 and a room that cost 20 and a payoff of 80 or 90. They're all kind of like relationships. So I said that regardless of what was the beginning, it was on the guidelines that did not end up defining the relationship between the public and the private partner that it was, however, given the construction initiative at that time, perhaps the best period. We'll see everything else for a while.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12062	Thank you. Next replica representative Marijan Skvarić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12063	Here's your esteemed deputy. First of all, two things would point to the presentation of the distinguished representative Mr. Boric, first of all I am as mayor... of the county and what is withdrawn that it is not Mr. Cacic and we have been replaced by the HNS's and others with a great collaboration of HDZ, but of course very quickly we came back to power, because that only replacement was based on ordinary politics and great envy because what was done when we were and we were now and Mr. Cacic was made for those three years more than 20 years ago. Another thing I would point out specifically is that public-private partnerships are not good because funds from other levels can be used. Well, now from what level? First of all, a truly public-private partnership should not be a private partner if the public sector has money. Cities and municipalities really in that part of the money we don't have on that part that should support the state, then give us the money. Again my example also as a mountain-mounted area of projects that we had with project documentation, building permits, three years constantly from the Ministry of the Sea we didn't get a single kuna for our projects. We couldn't get them because there was never any resources, there was no time, and now we're not up. The second source you said was the European Union. Look at the wonders, I've spent seven projects from the European Union funds, when these projects didn't go through me in the ministry... according to the funds and all the segments, IPA,..., CARDS, that's where I got the funds. So others estimate you have potential, you have opportunities, they give resources, and our country couldn't do that at the time. And a public-private partnership, so look at the wonders I have this project with me. Of course, we invested it in the development and construction of the school because we know that education, smart people are the ones who can understand projects like this and can start an economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12064	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, fellow Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12065	Thank you, Vice President. Here's the gentleman who said he's from a mountainous area, so he's obviously mixed up some things. The Ministry of the Sea in the last term, so for the last four years he hasn't had that area under his service, it was the Ministry of Regional Development if I remember correctly, and I was there, so I know that. But the islands, the coast had great help, especially the SDP's chiefs, the mayors, and I think more or less everyone has achieved their projects. Here we have an island commissioner, the mayor, so let's confirm it. And I think this story is that we've been giving someone, and we're not here for HNS, the town of Sibenik here, I think if we didn't give them anything, let Mr. Baranovic get up and say we didn't. And the school and hall that are now being built is being built exclusively by the money of the Ministry of the Sea, and now it's being transferred to the Ministry of the Regionals where even as a local self-government they had one big commitment, and given the possibility of loans, it took more or less to its part. So I think I don't know why we're discussing it that way, only we couldn't, and now, as HDZ municipalities and without a problem, they get that money. They don't get anything because there's no money. For the islands you have 10 million kunas, which you'll do with it, nothing. The hill-mounted area, I'm the only one here standing in defense of the mountain-mounted area in the budget for this year when I said that 0 kuna for that area is not correct. They had at least five or ten million kunas before, at least some kind of help. This power, your authority has said don't give you anything, you don't... there get anything. I don't think that's the job of the state, there's got to be a possibility as we speak, and through this law, this is an option. Unfortunately, you can't see through the budget, and it's not my fault.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12066	Thank you. The next member of the replica was representative Nada Turina-Đuric. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12067	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Boric, I don't know what portal you're reading from and from which material about Mr. Cacic's shift in Varazdin County, but I believe you're well-informed, that your party colleagues with your party satellites or your satellites have done political trade, not only in Croatia, but also in Varazdin County and replaced Mr. Cacic from the mayor's post. But it didn't take all this long, namely very quickly the basis of these projects, including the model of public-private partnership and the promises of the CNS before Mr. Cacic became mayor, so he went with this particular idea to the Varazdin County elections, realised these ideas and these projects, and then you replaced him with political trade. That's the truth. Unfortunately, there was someone talking about how we could also be financed under more normal conditions and from other sources, of course. It was precisely because the Varazdin County was never, at the time, at the mercy of the state government, had to be cut after this model of public-private partnership and built those facilities that were promised to citizens, or to realize those goals that were promised to citizens, which is that they have one decent education in the area of the Varazdin County and that is the real truth, Mr. Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12068	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Comrade Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12069	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, look, if this is how Mrs Turina said that HDZ councilors replaced Mr. Cacic in 2008, then they set him up. And I don't believe that story because if they could've certainly set up their own. The fact is that two HNS councilmen have replaced their former mayor as it says on the portal, I can't remember now but surely.... Now, here I'm listening again, so that's how well and successfully it's done in Varazdin County. Mrs. Turina was the mayor of our Primorje-Gorski County and now here, if so... I wonder why all our schools both on islands and in the surrounding areas, and even in the City of Rijeka the most, are not then in the same way, and they are constantly in power there also, for 10 years, more, 20, does not matter. And she's the mayor, and our schools aren't so perfect, they're not so good, they're not so beautiful, they're not so adapted to students, and they're good. And our county has almost twice as much money as Varazdinska. Our budget was somewhere between 350, Varazdinska about 180. So if that's the deal and we didn't do it, that's the question. Well, that's probably why either they're not capable of doing it or the model itself isn't the best. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12070	Thank you. We have the last line, colleague Marelic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12071	... I'd really like a couple of tips. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Projects that we ran from cities and municipalities rarely passed our wishes, but that's why they wanted to if party colleagues, parties in power, went through it. We were still eight years old we were paying for party belongings. That's how the roads on Korčula went bad. We have cultural projects I think half the government was... from the former culture minister to the others were committees. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] It's all going down, and nothing's going through. When we talk about supply, water supply, the project that Korčula was supposed to complete last year, 104 million, 50% of the investment went in, 8 years standing, no water. So I come from a place where there's no water, and I've had an auto-cistern available stock to pull it out before the election so people can run out of water. I mean, it's that policy we know how to do. I know a colleague in Drvenik, they have water Drvenik, Drvenik only has the water concession they gave Karaman for transporting water because I'm well aware of this water problem because I'm using all the water supply in our Adriatic and the auto-cistern so that with moments we've had to bring in auto-cistern, help from Neretva to jump in for transportation and water supply. I'm looking at this law is good because we've done something similar, one deal to build a supply center and a parking lot in the city with Tommy. We waited six years for a building permit, we couldn't get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12072	Time, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12073	But we've had it before the election lately, and now it's challenging, I think it's soon to be built.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12074	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12075	But projects, just one sentence, but projects that were unfortunately if you... The local boards and the wheels where HDZ was in power were all passing along with one paper it was written on it by an investment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] They just wrote one piece of paper and they were all passing through. That was embarrassing. Before the election, 500 thousand kuna
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12076	My colleague, thank you, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12077	Here I have to answer to my esteemed colleague, Marelic, since he is an islander from Korčula, so I will try here in all areas where the shortcomings lead our troubles towards the city of Korčula. I have to say, first of all, this isn't true. If Mayor Mirko had come to me too... and neatly sought out his projects and solved his city problems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As far as the roads are concerned, only Zrnovo and that compound are now new to Blato over 150 million kunas of value. As far as culture is concerned, we didn't help Mark Paul, but we did create a State Archives in Korčula, Mr. Marelic 7 million kunas of the Ministry of the Sea plus the equipment of the Ministry of Culture. As far as the plumbing is concerned, your island is the best I can think of, and only that part of the regional water line from Račisje to Smokvica is 15 km long, and the value of the investment is more than 20 million kuna. Not to mention the sports swimming pool. The first swimming pool on Croatian islands in the function of sport. Over 30 million kunas from the state budget. Well, of course I'd be dissatisfied as SDP's representative with the care of such HDZ authority towards my town to which it belongs. I think you missed Mr. Marelic like that 100%. Not to mention the House of Health that just now began the first phase of recovery and everything else, and the harbor and other stories that I'm not talking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12078	Thank you very much. I've heard from the Deputy Minister. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12079	Thank you very much. I would take advantage of the opportunity to return to the truth, and I think it is both correct and professional and fair on the words of Mr. Milosevic on behalf of the HDZ Club, who, in his review of the HDZ Club, confirmed on this final draft of the law one good intention of the possibility of this final bill. In a way, symbolizing this and as a continuity in using the model in a lack of funds. Why was I looking in some way to get involved in the debate at this point? Because I have a feeling that the final draft law in practice between units of local self-government and various political options may fall into that segment of debate in another plan. I would remind myself, but I would like to remind all of us, in particular, to change the debate in the context of the portal's mention, to remember June 26, 2006. At that time, I would really say in a positive way, and as confirmed by that meeting, then the Prime Minister gathered all the mayors and all the mayors. So in June 2006, with an emphasis on what was then achieved, so in June 2006, political agreement for a public-private partnership with a focus on health care, education, building homes for pensioners and the like. So, in 2006, when Croatia was moving with guidelines for a public-private partnership, mayors, mayors of all political options, all colors, they reached a party political consensus on a common commitment to this particular model and to seek to achieve savings, they set out in a public-private partnership, thus in a joint action on the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. And I think it might be good to remind myself at this point that six years ago, when the Croatian state first adopted those guidelines for the JPP that at that moment it was really among the executive authorities, local self-government, so the mayors, the mayors around the model and the primary objective of how to achieve public service through savings in cooperation with the private partner, so in some ways the common denominator of this support was indeed this political agreement. And here is the context of how the portal of experience with a public-private partnership on the example of the County Palace, the first such project in Croatia, was transferred to the meeting by Varazdin Mayor Radimir Cacic. In that segment it was the first project mentioning the Varazdin County. This initiative, therefore in Varazdin County, if I am not mistaken, correct me if I am wrong, resulted in 40,000 squares of the school space, with a sports hall, with one-way teaching and when the effects of the project that was presented are also analysed, so presented as a pilot project, as an example at Croatia level as it can be achieved and I would say by raising the quality of life in the Varazdin County. However, returning to the conclusion I would like to remind myself, therefore, that 6 years ago, JPP was as an option, not as a model being imposed, which was not imposed either then, which is not being imposed at this time but as a possibility, as a possibility through a lower price of capital, as a possibility in cooperation with a private partner at that time really had one general political support. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12080	Thank you, too. When people from the field are being debated, then we're spinning from local self-government and regional development and everything, it's always going to be that way, and it's going to stay that way. Thank you, Deputy Minister. We're continuing an individual debate. counterpart Nada Turina-Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12081	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, respected deputies, representatives of the public-private partnership agency. Well, here's the deputy lady as if she were psychic, as if she knew what I was going to start this debate with. I, personally as deputy mayor, was sitting at the meeting mentioned by Mrs. Obradovic. Where for the first time in Croatia means the presented possibility of building social infrastructure and seeking consensus, means between local and regional self-government. With this idea of the government going to the initiative, the true god of the Varazdin County where these projects were already in motion. And where, where the premiums were, the then prime minister in truth with great enthusiasm presented the project as a sort of new business of the then government. And where health ministers then gave examples and opportunities, and listed opportunities where all in Croatia could be realised. And what I can convey, and as I recall from that time, we all left from that meeting full of enthusiasm, happy, with a lot of hope that when we got to our local and regional self-government, we would talk about some projects that were ours and at that time priority. And as Mr. Boric says today, unfortunately, they are our priority, because we have failed to realize them to this day. To go means to work on that model. However, problems or obstacles began to arise at that time or in the next period. I personally participated in the work, in preparing several projects in the field of my county that are not in school, but in health and social, but simply by administrative obstacles and under-quality legislative solutions we simply managed to postpone some of these projects in the procedure, to finally stop them. And that is why right now, at the beginning, I have to welcome today's debate, and a bill that is just about to try to fix the situation with this law in a way that hastens these projects. Or to speed up the process from the idea and from the project to the realization itself. We've all had a lot of problems here. It's not a place or time to accuse each other. Sometimes I have to admit it. We were under the impression that the check and it was committed on purpose, or on purpose, some of these projects did not want to be missed either through the agency or through the consent of the competent ministries. For various reasons, if a ministry had already given consent since it was a project, the Ministry's parent project, in terms of activity. The Ministry of Finance then made remarks that simply could not be skipped, or could not be implemented due to legal provisions. So he says, I welcome this law, I hope this really speeds up, a little bit maybe I'm skeptical about those 30 days, but I'm not quite sure if it's 30 days after the end, so the project means adding consent or it's from the beginning. It's probably just out of agreement. So, I think if we succeed in this whole series of projects, we're in local and regional self-government that are already over. There are a whole series of projects that are in the high stage of preparation, but which simply because of these certain restrictions that we are now correcting by this law, will be made possible. What you'd just point out in the end. First of all, we were mostly talking about a public-private partnership contract model, which was the most discussed. Because it was about the investment of the state, i.e. the State's partnership in the realisation of social infrastructure projects. However, there is another model, of which someone here mentioned in the debate, which is a concession model, which I think the state must pay particular attention to, and through the investment and investment tracking centre. Because there, there lies the huge potential of investment in our treasure, that is, our property. With one great benefit in the end, and that is that everything that is invested in our, on our property, on our property, in 20, 25, 30 years will be an increased value of the property of this state, that is, this state will be worth more. And it seems absolutely incomprehensible to me that in some of our regional self-government and local self-government, I would dare say, probably out of ignorance and lack of information about the models of a public-private partnership, these projects refuse. And these are direct, in fact, investments in our assets, the possibility of starting the construction sector, the possibility of even starting the economy. So I think it's just as much or maybe more important to start investment in a public-private partnership in this second model, meaning in the concession model, not to talk about all the properties we have along the Adriatic, as much as you want, and we haven't been able to put them into function all these years. And we or our investors here don't have the money to invest in them right now. This, as far as the contract model is concerned, where the state investment in social infrastructure should start, is also two benefits. So we'll do something useful. I think it is the strategic goal of this country to become a state of knowledge, i.e. a society of knowledge and to build schools, to become a quality social state that will take care of its old and powerless, and to lack thousands of accommodation facilities for old and powerless in the Republic of Croatia. And that, by entering such an investment cycle, it would also be a construction operation. It's not negligible, it's very important. A project worth the circus, i.e. in this investment worth approximately 5 billion kuna, will be extremely important in this economic situation in which Croatia is presently located. That's why here's full support for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12082	Thank you very much. Next up for a debate, Nancy Tyrelli, here's your co-workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12083	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your esteemed deputy with your associate. So here's when we started discussing around 4 today, I thought I understood something about this public private partnership, and now as time goes by, I see that I understand less and less because I am this public-private partnership and the amendments to the existing law that we really see as something that needs to be changed because it's not good. But we just heard so much about that model. That's what Chehok and Kosor did. That's what confused me. If we're talking about a public-private partnership, if we're talking about projects that have been made so far under the existing law, then I don't see why we're talking about a project or a building or a school being made by a person or two or three people who were able to either at the time or in a commitment to sign certain contracts. I think the closest thing to the truth today is when we were talking about a public-private partnership here is a representative of Rilje who said that the Public Private Partnership Act is being passed for reasons that there is no money in local self-government units and there is not in most cases units of the local self-government of the second funding model. So, we can't borrow, we can't do anything else, so we could use the Public Private Partnership Act. This is quite good if no one's forcing anyone to do this, and today we've heard they won't. It is commendable that this law, as we have heard, already better define the positions of the existing law. Public-private partnership is something that has been developing for decades, upgrades. The public private partnership has an awful lot of contract relations that public and private partners can, dare, want to sign. There are many projects that can be built according to the public-private partnership model. We heard a few of them today. In addition to schools, communal facilities have those commercial objects where they would probably want a private partner to find their own account. In that part of contractual relations, it is important to always make sure that final users do not collect those services. So, if we're talking about a model at home for adults, then it's important that services to the final users of that home don't collect because the model is made public-private partnership. We talked about transparency as to how much more transparent it is if we made something out of a public-private partnership model. So all that is done or intended to be done or done in units of local administration or self-government is also and must be transparent. Is the problem with these units of local self-government not being transparent or perhaps the problem with us not looking for that transparency but we know that the Law on Accessing Information is essentially any work of the unit of local self-government is public. So each of us can also know how much local self-government is, a particular project, and pay for it, only if it intervenes. It now turns out that the public-private partnership is more transparent than anything else just because the public private partnership data will be published in the register, i.e. on the Agency’s pages of such partnership. Local self-government units also belong to the category of macro and medium-sized entrepreneurs. They have every right as well as any entrepreneur. And here, I think this public private partnership is just one of the tools available to these local self-government units to use it if they estimate that this model or that model to them at that point is the best and most rewarding. I'm sorry, I'm really sorry that we don't have any parallel data today on these projects that have been revived in Croatia so far, that we don't have any sum of analysis as much of their advantages and disadvantages. So what we estimate is good and what we estimate should be changed. It would be good to bring about changes to the existing law and, in these changes, to talk all the time about how the projects we have are good, to show it well and transparently. And that those who vote to amend that law and have something that they can compare themselves. Because this is how we have to believe, and the question is what do we believe in? As far as the deadlines are concerned, there's something I don't understand, so I'd like to ask the deputy here if she's in the mood to explain it to me. We're talking about 30-day deadlines, and I get that. Therefore, the Ministry of Finance shall issue an opinion and agreement to the Agency within 30 days of the date of receipt of the project, and that agency shall be hasty, i.e. after the Agency considers the project to be neat, means without delay, at least that is the way it writes to the Ministry of Finance. So, without delay, we think it's within a reasonable time frame. For 30 days, the Ministry of Finance has time to manifest itself. But the Ministry of Finance has no obligation to manifest itself about this project. So, it can or can't be. If, within the period referred to in Article 11(6), the Ministry of Finance does not decide on a request for consent, it will be deemed that the consent has been granted in favour of the public body. I don't get it now. So the agency sends it to the Ministry of Finance. He's been in the Ministry of Finance for 30 days. After 30 days, the Ministry of Finance wasn't obvious. At that point, the agency can understand that the ministry has accepted the project as such. I think it's bad, because then nowhere is it actually information that the Ministry of Finance has taken over a part of the responsibility, that this project as such looked at and that here it is behind it and saying, that this is good, this can go. And what I do, therefore, further writes the project proposal acquires the status of the project solely on the basis of the Agency's approval within five days of the date of acceptance of the consent of the Ministry of Finance. So, the Ministry of Finance is still bound to give it away, but then I'd like to pray that that part here technically corrects itself. And what confuses me terribly when we talk about reducing the deadline from 180 to 30 days then the public body has a period of one year from the day of obtaining the status of a public private partnership project to choose a private partner. So we've done everything within the deadline all the institutions have made their own, we've estimated that the project is a public-private partnership and then we give the public body a deadline of one year to choose a private partner. Here's what I'd like to ask you to explain. And maybe just for the end, I'm going back to my fellow representative Rilje said in the end that the units of local self-government are looking for and finding a way, but I certainly think it's important that the units of local self-government first have a vision, a strategy and a goal to get to a particular project, and then that this law is who we already have and who is existing and by whom whoever wanted to run something. We see how many projects are currently under way, how many of them are likely to be traced by these changes, but certainly here I am glad that this model will not be the only model and I hope that it really won't happen to anyone that forces them to use exclusively public-private partnerships in the construction of anything in their local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12084	Thank you very much. The Deputy Minister will answer your question immediately. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12085	Here's a thank you. I'm taking the opportunity to respond immediately as I'm going to have to answer to Mr. Lesar in the final. Since he's gone, he won't hear my answer, but I hope the bigger one stays to tell him because you're still there. Very short, 30 days, the silence of the administration, the General Administrative Procedure Act, and there is no doubt that there will be no responsibility, because whatever you turn or do not respond to because of the General Administrative Procedure Act, so if within 30 days after the PDO, if you do not answer, the matter is deemed to be approved and it equally activates the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance as if they have written and signed it. So, we've been pulling out of the zoo for 30 days. I'd like to compare the answer to the second question like when you get a power building permit. So you have this whole procedure for a year to choose your private partner you can even try on the basis of an approved project, so something in the negotiations with your private partner you have that year of time that you don't have to reverse the whole procedure with another private partner. Something can always happen in negotiations with a private partner, meaning it's like a building permit. You get a power building permit you have two years if good memory serves you have two years to put a shovel in the ground right. So you don't have to start digging up the foundations immediately the next day. Here's hoping that's clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12086	I thank the Minister. We have two replicas at the presentation of our colleague Tyrell. The first one came from a colleague, Marijan Skuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12087	Mr. Vice President. So basically, little Mrs. Tyrelli confused me because at the beginning of the introduction that I couldn't understand it and about all that part of the public-private partnership and later in her debate she really brought out some very good things and after the reply of the deputy minister we came to one of the important points which is a public-private partnership. And secondly... truly the only sense of public-private partnership in helping local self-government because they don't have the means to do so. So I can also confirm that perhaps the best public-private partnerships that have been launched and which have been realised and which have the highest option are run right by local self-government. Perhaps we mayors, the mayors, must best define this compatibility of costs the best results that can be obtained from this, and after all, we really appreciate it as a... public-private partnership must be one of the tools to start the economy to come up with new jobs and new content and activity within the social opportunities for all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12088	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Here you go, Comrade Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12089	I really hope that every mayor or mayor has worked by any model or whatever does a cost-effectiveness study for that model and I absolutely don't want to get into it. And as for my introduction to this, I just said that when we started the debate, I thought I knew something about a public-private partnership, but then it made me terribly sad when it came to a public-private partnership or certain public-private partnership projects, and we're comparing projects with the names and last names of people as if these two men had built a hall in Varazdin by pulling money out of our pockets. That's neither Chehok nor Jadranka Kosor did it, nor did he make it, or did anyone do it. So their names eventually stand on the signing of those contracts that are as such concluded on a public-private partnership and that's what bothers me. Because when you talk all the time about a good model hall in Varazdin and then you say it's a model Czechok it's signed by Czechok and Kosor. So much for that model of what else to interpret than that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12090	Thank you. Here's a colleague of Natalija Martincevic's quit. But colleagues of Tyrelli, that's quite true what colleagues have said about this case in Varazdin. We're continuing the debate. Next to discuss Tonka Ivcevic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12091	Mr. Vice-President, Deputy Minister with Associates. Now, after so many discussions today, it's really not easy to say something smart anymore, but here I'm going to use my debate to point out once again the shortcomings of the law so far and the advantages of the new one that we're making today. The public-private partnership generally includes design, construction, financing, public infrastructure management or public facilities by private partners on the basis of long-term contracts. This model is gaining more popularity in the modern era when governments of regional and local environments face a challenging task of protecting public interest on the one hand and meeting the increasingly different individualised needs of the population on the other hand. The expectations of the population are growing as their claims for better public services as lower prices. Moreover, the confidence of the population in their government in their mayors and mayors depends heavily on the quality of the services they provide. In this context, the role and importance of public-private partnerships are strengthened. Also due to the budgetary constraints facing the Republic of Croatia but units of local and regional (regional) self-government, more and more access should be made to the practice of entering public-private partnership agreements and, in order to further grow the economy, meet the objectives, infrastructure development, achieve social objectives, as well as to provide better public service to citizens. The advantages and benefits of the public-private partnership are certainly faster building public infrastructure, faster realising such projects, better and better quality services, creating additional revenues and, of course, effective public governance. However, during the implementation of the Law on Public Private Partnership, a number of shortcomings were also seen and therefore the derogations of the new law in 2008 were in fact only three projects in the preparation phase, and one was realised and the contract was concluded for him. Some of the shortcomings observed in this particular law are complex procedures and long deadlines necessary for the collection of various consents, opinions at certain stages of project preparation, high costs of implementation of the process, higher prices of this kind, problems with the need for change, questionable risk sharing, and finally, in sublaws, not a fully defined public-private partnership that creates dilemmas and legal uncertainty. In view of all of the above, the conditions of the crisis when public institutions are required to launch an investment cycle should be supported by such a new Public-private Partnership Act. The new Public Private Partnership Act removes all of these shortcomings and allows for a transparent procedure for the approval of public-private partnership projects, shortens the duration of the administrative process, creates legal certainty frameworks and makes public-private partnership more accessible. In this way, involving the private sector in the financing of capital projects addresses problems of lack of public resources, inadequate income structure of local and regional self-government units, growing public needs at local and regional level, and restrictions on borrowing and the inability to obtain favourable loans. Finally, I would just point out that it is certainly necessary to ensure systematic education and systematic education at all levels, and all potential stakeholders, in order to make the implementation of this law as successful as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12092	Thank you. Next up for discussion, a colleague named Bozidar Kalmeta reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12093	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I'd like to say a few sentences right now at the end of the debate on this bill. I think this law is not bad and I think that regardless of some dilemmas that I had, but here's listening to the debate and answers of the deputy lady I heard the explanation specified so I don't have anything to ask now, but I might still have some suggestions that might even improve this law, and all in order for him to open up additional investment opportunities today at a time when, and that we're all aware of the investment is gone, and the investments might really be more necessary right now than ever. The public-private partnership is therefore one of the models that should open up additional space and the possibility of clearly investing in the cooperation of a public and private partner, so open space to all those who have money and want to invest it so that they can agree with a public partner, whether it is a state, whether a unit of local self-government, county or cities, realize certain projects that are of general social interest. I think everything that's done, no matter what model, is fine. When school is made, it's good that school is done, when kindergarten is done well to create kindergarten, when anything that is of general social interest is done, I think it's good. And that's why all those bill proposals that open up the possibility of improvement catalyze actually these processes, I think they're good because I said... now new investment... capital and solving administrative barriers that stop investment is something that this country needs as much as possible right now. The public-private partnership is no news, so it has been practically in Croatia for 20 years. We have good examples of a public-private partnership because there are various models of a public-private partnership. The concession is also one of the models of a public-private partnership,... the model is one of the models of a public-private partnership, etc., so there are various models. Let's say one example, and this is a public-private partnership is the concession of an Istrian ipsilon that works French Buick. I think it's a good project. And then the question could be asked whether to wait, and we don't have money when it started long ago or to go on such a model. I think that, primarily Istria, and then all of Croatia has profited greatly by building an Istrian ipsilon in every sense, economic, tourist, etc., rather than waiting for a time when there will be money for it. So he was elected a concessionist, I repeat French Buick, and I think it was a good decision. We also have an example of Krapina Macelj, also a good model of concessioning. And then I don't know, I used to mention a lot of schools, halls, etc., etc. We are in the process, when I say we think of the last government, we are in the process of concessioning or preparing and implementing concessions for the Zagreb Airport, which the current government has finally made a decision, we have come to, I must say, a lot of obstacles and a lot of things that have not even been, I must honestly say, which have not been defined in the law. We wondered whether to go according to the public procurement model or not, so there were a lot of open issues that have kind of stalled and extended these deadlines until the final election of concessionaires for Zagreb Airport. Or the deadlines that were, they were long and that's a fact. And I think in this law the biggest gain is that the deadlines are cut to 30 days. There were speeches here and the question arises that it is easy to write for 30 days, but it should be done within 30 days, or it should be made manifest. I think it's a good deadline for 30 days. It might still be written here if I understood what Ms. Deputy said if the Ministry of Finance, because it is obviously considered to have given a positive opinion, and that's good, but as far as the Public-private Partnership Agency is concerned, it might say that because her opinion is a little more complex to say so, it's clear that if not 30 that I can't extend it again for another 20 days and that's some kind of maximum time limit. Therefore, it should be possible for that 30-day period to be truly respected and respected, in any case, to have professional people, to have good staff, to team up. Therefore, all institutions that and the Public-private Partnership Agency must also have sufficient capacity to respond to these deadlines. Because this is about a project proposal I don't know about, preparing for a competition, having a draft contract. So I think a public-private partnership is one complicated, I think complicated, one system that, or one procedure that is not simple. So, I repeat, in order to really shorten the deadlines which are good and what is absolutely said before, perhaps the most important thing in this law should really have good personnel and capable people who can do it all together and do it. A fellow Milosevic when speaking on behalf of the club said and mentioned perhaps something about a strategy. So, of course we should, primarily when it comes to e.g. school facilities where we all want, where we have the same standard throughout Croatia. It would be good to make this one strategy to know what, where, where and how, and also for social and social infrastructure facilities. The units of local self-government about it also here were saying it was also an additional possibility. If someone thinks it's best for him at that point, that's the only option, then surely he'll go into that model without waiting for five or ten years to make some kind of kindergarten he needs right now because he doesn't have money right now. So I'm going back to the beginning the question is, is it better to go immediately build it so that parents and children have that kindergarten or wait 10 years? I think it's better to go make it right now, and this is one model that provides the possibility, so I'm already told here that I'm not going to repeat who's in it, so let's go along with that model, and whoever doesn't go there doesn't. Maybe it says here that the maximum time limit is going on for 40 years, and I wouldn't limit it. I think by contractual relations, if the contractual relationship shows or I don't know the investment that that deadline should be 45 years and be 45 years or 50, which has to do with it. So I wouldn't limit it to 40 years, and if it were more, it seems to me that it's written here by a special law I would let it be evaluated by public-private partners, so to a private public partner to find in one mathematics what pleases one and the other independently of the number of years. I also wanted to ask for article 12 around the public body, but here you are, Madam Deputy, explaining it, so I have nothing to add. All in all, I think this law gives improvements to the past law, and in that sense, some major remarks I personally don't have. And here's what I said if I somehow contributed to this debate and maybe some ideas that might still fit into the law well, if not again well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12094	Thank you, too. Next to discuss Branko Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12095	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. At a time when public service needs are growing and available public sector funds that can meet these needs are becoming less and less public-private partnerships have been imposed as a new form of financing. In 2008, guidelines for the application of contractual forms of public-private partnership in which the private partner participates not only in the construction phase but also in the phase of maintenance and replacement of spent materials over a period of 20 or 30 years. Following this, the Regulation on the granting of prior consent to the conclusion of the PPP Treaty was also adopted, and in October 2008 and the law. The following month, the Agency was already established and 4 regulations were adopted in 2009 with the aim of monitoring the project, training of participants, establishing assessment criteria, establishing contract content, etc. However, only 14 projects have been approved all these years. Since a complex procedure has deterred public authorities from taking advantage of the public-private partnership compared to the traditional borrowing model. This law should simplify the procedure, more specifically define a public-private partnership and a mandatory risk to be taken by a private partner. Therefore, this law is expected to trigger the conclusion of a number of such contracts, and thus a long announced investment boom. The first Deputy Prime Minister and Economy Minister Mr. Radimir Cacic at the 11th session of the government, counterpart Baranovic smiled, promised to launch a new investment cycle on 23 February this year, and the financing was mainly based on the use of private capital just according to the public-private partnership model. The truth is that the investment cycle was due to take place by June 1st, according to his statements. Hundreds of project and investment competitions have not been announced, nor have tens of thousands of unemployed who would work on these projects been announced. It seems that this law was an obstacle and that after these newspapers in the public-private partnership, this long-published investment cycle will also be launched. This law should significantly reduce preparations up to two years, as deadlines from 180 to 30 days are reduced. Since the proposer wants to help the public partner, I see no reason why local self-government units that need such projects do not help professional advice, but is once again referred to the involvement of external experts, consultants for providing professional support in the preparation of project proposals. What is most critical or important is that we once again leave it to a consultant who can be questionable knowledge and ability, and without experience on such projects. Since the town of Vodice has the need and the necessary permission to build a sports hall, and certainly not from the city, county, and the state budget will not be built, we will be forced to consider building according to the model of public-private partnership. Also, building a school in Bilica as a series of projects in our Sibenik-Knin County will most likely need to be built on the same model. I wonder, or I ask you, a respected deputy minister where we'll find the best advisor who has knowledge, abilities. And the most important experience on such projects as has been in Croatia so far was only 14. Then why not train an expert team within the agency to assist public authorities, not just to check what they have handed over, and then throw them away or punish them with penalties even up to a million kunas. Furthermore, by this law, this fine form of financing, construction, maintenance of public facilities should in the future have a lease status rather than a debt. However, it should be said that no matter how we record it in our business books, as a lease or as a debt, all these funds must be returned and with all these funds we owe the future generations whatever we call them. And with that, caution must be even greater. It is good that this law also defines the risks to be taken by a private partner and allows partial commercial use of the facility to rationalise the project. Thus, construction, reconstruction, maintenance of public buildings are specified, and a private partner takes over from the public the obligations and risks associated with financing and the construction process, and the risk of availability of public building or the risk of demand. As we can see by this law, the public partner is additionally provided, but also additionally burdens the private partner. Let us not forget that even the private partners who are willing to learn at such risks are not too old, so this attempt that we expect investment boom, as counterpart Boris said, could remain just a dead letter on paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12096	Thank you very much. Next up for debate, MP Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12097	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Parliament, dear deputies, colleagues and colleagues. The Green Paper on public-private partnership, a document adopted by the European Union, to regulate public procurement and concession contracts, and to kill to define what a public-private partnership is, and what it is not. This law does not, of course, comply with the acquiss of the European Union, but it is to kill compliance with the rules governing the European Union and to comply with the Green Paper on Public-private Partnership. What is crucial to this law is not to amend the Law on Public-private Partnership but to be a new law, is the restrictions and all the shortcomings that existed in the existing law must be regulated with a whole new concept which will provide, in the right sense, transparency and shortening of the procedure. No country, not in Europe but in the world, can and does not have enough money for all public needs. The coalition government, the government, the Ministry of Economy has priority in their policy, and this priority is one of the priorities of key education, the building of schools and of course school halls, as accompanying facilities, not commercial halls where there were speeches and words, because commercial halls should not even go into the public-private partnership system. And because of this, it is this law that will prevent the possibility of happening to us again, if someone comes to mind to organize some championships, which would only kill 10.15 or a month they would enjoy, I believe in our victories, our teams, but certainly not the taxpayers who would have to pay for it as they are paying for the halls in Croatia. And which, these very halls have created a very negative one, created a negative message to the public and citizens on the subject of a public-private partnership, are killing and blaming that basic guideline, which is a public-private partnership that brings this law back to that space why it is important, which is a public service, public infrastructure, schools, school halls. So all educational institutions, the judiciary, the judiciary, means hospitals, health care, everything that belongs to an exclusively public service for the needs of citizens. When it comes to privates that they're going to make money, of course, they're going to make money even when it comes to the classic model. However, we have accepted the entry, by entering the European Union, by accepting all legal gains, and we have accepted a model called the market, and there is a possibility and profit in the market. And the profit is the engine and the wheel and the entrepreneur and the employment. Therefore, the model of a public-private partnership or a classic model quite logically, that the private partner has a particular interest, only here is it essential that this law regulates and controls it, and not as it normally is on the free market, which is one of the keys of this law and in one transparent way, public. With what to kill, this law gives us one truly, one quality step in legislation in Croatian legislation, and we get space. What is most important today is 329 projects, already mentioned some who have building permits and who, realistically, at the moment when neither states nor municipalities nor cities have any money, have the possibility of borrowing. Not only because of the government deficit or public debt, but also the fiscal responsibilities and spaces that have or do not have municipalities and cities. This is the space through a public-private partnership, through the lease to ensure the possibility that all these projects that exist, have a building permit, and of course prepare further all those needed to implement one-way teaching according to the government project. So, it's the key to this law, it's the key to this acceleration of the whole procedure with a public-private partnership where independent of the government in local self-government or county, which is often mentioned here and I'm extremely glad that and by HDZ there is this support, that they recognize that this is one consensus of the law, the law of development, the law of all, and I believe that the same support will be for other laws that are exclusively clearly developed and recognised from all sides. Therefore, once again, I support and commend this law which is clearly well-read and prepared and I believe that in this way we will succeed in a short and fast period of real and transparent solution to all these projects that are prepared for children to go to school in quality conditions, which are at European level and, of course, to get the opportunity to have as many young and in secondary schools and colleges as possible, because the conditions of quality will create and stimulate them to continue working, learning and dealing with both the economy and for the benefit of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12098	Thank you. Final word on behalf of Croatian National Party Representative Petar Baranovic's club, please welcome your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12099	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, respected deputies with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Before I go, first of all, I express my deep respect for all the rebellious MPs and MPs who do their job with honor. Why is this law and what kind of law is it? This has been improved, based on the empiria of the variants of the law passed by the HDZ government. So, after experience with their law, some new ones have been created in which certain knowledge of the shortcomings and the achilles of this system of public-private partnerships that there are doubts and dilemmas because, as we had the opportunity to hear in this House tonight, even within the parties themselves, there are duplicate opinions. One's for it, the other's against it. But it is indicative that among the opposition representatives there is a knowledge of the reality in which Croatian society is presently located. Why a public private partnership? The answer is very simple. There are four funding models in front of each unit of local self-government or regional government. One is from its own budget if there is such a mass of resources from general taxes and income. The second one's a loan-lifter. There are third combinations like we had when we were building a school in the city of Sibenik. Here's my colleague, Boric, here's my colleague Kalmata. My public thanks, you were very professional in this project. And the fourth is a public private partnership. What's the situation today? We are all deeply aware of this, and in this model of which we have touched the school in Sibenik combined financing of the central state unit of local self-government, we have drawn funds from the European Investment Bank, from the Central European Bank. So, the funds that came from outside for certain programs. It was the borrowing of the Republic of Croatia, let's be realistic, accurate. The city of Sibenik made a contribution from its own resources. That school is coming to an end. But the model came to an end and that possibility that every year Croatia is in debt for a very serious amount of money outside. Because, as there is in the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Croatia, a limit limiting 20% of the responsibility of the unit of local self-government, of course there are limits on the world capital market for countries. And we're all fat aware that we can't build progress on that model anymore, we can't start projects and we have to engage all the resources that are in the environment. Therefore, it is clear that the public private partnership has been improved by certain measures incorporated into this law. One option, not the obligation would be very likely for all of us in this room to be happy that units of local self-government, including the Republic of Croatia, have such income that all of those standards that we are obliged to provide to our citizens and all adjustments to new living conditions can be financed without a public-private partnership, so that what Cash and Cary say, we can draw out our wallet, build a kindergarten, build a school. But we are all fat aware that this is not possible, and we have a task in front of citizens to organise life appropriate to the standards of time in which we live, organise both the functioning and the education system and preschool education. Finally, someone mentioned retirement homes, nursing homes. Let us ask ourselves how many waiting lists are in nursing homes, how many can we objectively borrow, how many can we objectively use our own resources and incomes that are on our disposition to build or we still have to bite that apple of public-private partnership that is bitten by the whole world, and it is not exclusively the idea of neoliberal capitalism, as we in the Croatian People's Party are not neoliberal capitalists or followers of that ideology. Therefore, this law will support the Croatian People's Party as an alternative and the possibility of starting the construction sector, to save it, because it has already failed. And for this reason, if I were a Labourist and a representative of the Croatian Labour Party who took care of workers in voting for this law, I would remember all those construction workers who stayed on the street because of recession and job losses. I would support this law with insistence that it be implemented strictly, morally and professionally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12100	Thank you, too. And finally, on behalf of the proponent, Deputy Minister Tamara Obradović-Mazal. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12101	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I see I have 30 minutes to finish, so here. Of course, it was at least a joke attempt. As MP Baranovic said before me. Here is also in my personal name thanks to everyone for the debate, a debate that was dynamic, which in principle I think we can all agree on was positive. It has to do with JPP and those who are in favour and those who are against it. What matters is that both those who are in favor and those who are against know that there is a possibility. That possibility should not be abused, no bread should be sought over a cake. It needs to be real. It should be put in a fiscal context, in the context of accountability to the budget. But for those who are for JPP as a concept, as the idea of this law as well as the applicable law ultimately gives the possibility to realize their needs through that model if they want to. But above all, because often wishes may lead us, and I would say on the wrong path, there is, at the very least, Article 9 of the bill that says come with the costs, calculate, put yourself in real possibilities, make the formula, put all the figures on the table. We are the ones who will be your conscience along with you and tell you. You don't have that positive value for money in the That's a good idea. Your costs are too high, your risk is too high, you haven't shared the risk well. It's their responsibility. When people with numbers, not with wishes, ideas and big words come to the agency, the figures are that speak for themselves, and their responsibility in short terms is to say a great idea, but go to credit, give up the concept, find another time, this is what you came up with as you showed it in the context of the JPP don't go to that variant. It's their responsibility. They exist for this, and they must assess whether this project meets the criteria or not, and they must be in some way, not in some way, together with the finance ministry, a desire controller for anyone who comes with a concrete project. Just put it in numerical reality. As far as concepts are concerned, what I said in the opening is still standing. In segments of the ability and free will units of local self-government and executive authorities, so whoever represents public authority if he has an economically viable, riskyly well-divided responsibility, obligation but of course and rights, who has a good structure, he will go to the JPP project. There's no coercion, there's no general idea, there's general incentive, there's resources to be provided for certain lines of PPP. What we are certainly waiting for and waiting for confirmation that will happen is just provided financial resources that will, for example, price such capital through the JPP defined strategic downturn below 5%. It's hard to find on the market at this point. What is important and what I think has been crystallized through the debate is certainly raising awareness, perhaps even specialised people that as economists as lawyers as risk analysts are starting to become more concerned with public-private partnerships to embrace it as a concept to be later helpful. Because how to find truly advisors who will help you in one large part especially when units of local self-government are concerned through the Investment Center... it's their legal obligation. So the center there can be a counselor. Secondly, find advisors through the procurement process but also try to motivate economists, lawyers, locally present to be interested in, specialize and start to deal with public-private partnerships if there is one long-term interest at unit level in local self-government that these projects are developing. Why? Maybe in a few years we'll apply and be back here and apply each other, take a step further. Great Britain has the obligation of budgetary users to put it first in any construction process, so when they plan to build a new prison, a new school, anything, first and foremost legal obligation to put it in the cost of JPP, only when the costs of the JPP show that the project is not cost-effective, that the costs are too high, that the risks are not well divided then the public authority is allowed to go further through the lending or some other way. I'm saying, maybe in a few years we'll be back with that concept. Here, indeed, in the shortest possible lines, with Mr. Lesar's reply that the government adopted the Strategy of Government Programmes at its 13th session, and here may have fallen the server at that time, so Mr. Lesar failed to find it but here's the 13th session of the government on February 23rd this year the Strategy of Government Programmes. I am also taking the opportunity to accept amendments 111/1 and 111/2, therefore the amendments submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and the SDP Representatives' Club. Thanks again.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12102	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. I thank all of you colleagues and colleagues as my colleague Baranovic said we are persistent. This concludes the debate. Tomorrow we start at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 108. Good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-04-0.u12103	We move to a statement on the final proposal of the Law on Public-private Private Partnership, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 111. The debate is closed. The proposer accepted amendments submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and the SDP Representatives' Club. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 80 for, 8 against and 25 abstentions have been passed. My colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. We will discuss - Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 108 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Economic Affairs, the Committee on European Integration. You received the reports at the session. I ask if the proposaler's representative would like to further explain the proposal. Yeah. Deputy Minister of Economy, respected Tamara Obradović Mazal. Here you go.
