ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u13864	My colleagues and colleagues, the break time is up. In the name of the HDZ club, a respected representative, Stjepan Milinkovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u13865	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, in the last 10 months, I have spoken on several occasions about the problems of the village, agriculture, mostly livestock. Today, I am immensely sad because we are witnessing a complete breakdown of Croatian villages and destruction. After the efforts made since 2004 in the framework of operational programmes in livestock, which resulted in an increase in milk production by 150 million liters, several thousand new farms have been opened, these days we are witnessing that over 3,000 farms have already been closed. The number of cows taken for forced slaughter is increasing every day. After efforts to make sure that the number of unemployed and accordingly will grow every day and achieve new unprecedented proportions. So, after all these efforts have been made, of course and with the intention that our agricultural producers, mainly cattlemen, prepare to join the European Union, we are witnessing these days that they will not be welcomed. It happens, as I said, the fighting farms are closing, milk producers are here and downstairs looking for reception in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which the President of the Parliament has no answer. Therefore, we owe the name of all those who work both on Wednesdays and Fridays, farmers, because cattle farming is dear friends of the feather of Croatian agriculture, they never have vacations that work hard and hard to create and work without complaining, to say on their behalf that it is their turn to receive them and to talk. Because, as I said, they will not wait for this entry into the European Union. It's a very simple thing. Farmers, cattlemen warned about this issue of winter, said very simply that perhaps those 42 lipes that were given, because simply that the price of milk would be as much as possible to maintain the existing state and that they would be in some way able to prepare and be competitive. After all these circumstances, it was said that the price of milk would be 2.43, so it is not dear friends two but one kuna ninety below. And this really leads to the collapse of economies and such insurmountable hardships that make people truly desperate. I ask you, of course, also the Minister of Agriculture, the Prime Minister, the President of the Parliament, to receive these people and to speak to them because they have the same dignity, they want to work, they have never complained, they do not complain under the most difficult circumstances and this year when they were intolerable climate opportunities, they have worked and worked to maintain these economies. But this situation is simply unsustainable and I think we have to say on their behalf that you simply accept them to talk and try to find a solution. They are also supported by European milk producers. So, in any case, I welcome them, they are here, and I want to say that they don't feel alone, that we understand them, and we believe that such hearing and understanding will have both the Prime Minister and all those who can help find a solution because the situation is truly tragic, unbearable, and simply they are threatened. We're all thinking, we discuss our existence a lot here, our families, and these people are in extremely difficult shape, and they have to be understood, they have to be helped. Of course, do not allow dear friends to remain remembered as undertakers of Croatian villages. Our peasants didn't deserve it, they're doing as hard as I said on Wednesdays and Fridays. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u13866	On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, the Labour Party will speak for the respected representative Branko Vukšić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u13867	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, gentlemen our guests farmers, representatives of the peasants! First of all, the task of this House and politicians is dialogue, conversation. We need to talk. But lately, it seems less and less talkable, more and more dictatorship. I don't know if it's 2 kuna and 4th June real price, whether 4 kuna and 5 lipa is the real price of milk, I don't know, I'm not an expert on this area, but I know that the Minister of Agriculture often says in front of the cameras – no more, we won't give, we don't have. You need to explain, you need to take people in. It seems to me that it's not just the price of milk. The problem is essential. First of all, the problem has been assigned a way of assigning land to the sins of the former minister and to all former ministers. As a consequence, these are the consequences of what we have today. These consequences, rather than the new authorities, are resuscitated, they are deepened. We had a million and 200 thousand throats in Croatia in 1911. In 1991, or before the war, about 500 grand. Today we have 196,000 dairy cows. Today, 300 thousand liters of milk are less ransomed daily than was bought several months ago. This year, a hundred million gallons of milk will be less redeemed than before. So what's up? It's imported. Did we protect our production? What did we protect in Croatia in the first place? Why are we even in the Croatian state? Whether we're a state or we're going to allow it, we're talking all the time about hiring 3,000 jobs is shut down just because we let it go out from day to day. Three thousand jobs! And all the time we've been talking about the government taking care of employment. How does he care about employment? It says statistics, in three thousand jobs, which are economies that have failed, comes 1.4 jobs in those 3,000. That's another 4.5 thousand jobs. 7.5 thousand jobs we shut down like this we just turned the switch and we said no more. What is the agricultural land allocation policy? They got Agrokor, Zito, Osatina, Vupik Belje anyway it's all under one almost one man rule by it. When we talk about the village, we haven't heard a single constructive sentence about what will happen to Croatian agriculture. The only thing we can say is no. I agree not to, but let's agree on a way to approach the peasants, the way in which these 300 thousand acres of state land will be estimated inexplicable, talking about a million that's private land that the state can't share, how it's going to be assigned to the peasants. Those who produce food for cattle do not have enough land, and 300 thousand hectares of state land is inexhaustible. Why isn't it shared? I'm sure we should let... Don't earn, be courteous if the vice president doesn't already know how to courte you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Therefore, in this place in the Parliament, I am looking for a debate on agriculture as soon as possible, on the strategy of agriculture, on how to approach farmers, on what Croatia will be in agriculture this year, as we will, how we will address agriculture in the future. It's a pity that the milkmen, the representatives of the milkman, part of the representatives, we know because someone will say they're not all representatives, lurking in the square of St. Mark and no one wants to take them even for a chat. It's a shame we don't hear arguments about what it's about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u13868	Thank you very much. The positions of the HDSSB club will be presented by respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u13869	Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives, milk producers, owners of the family farms of God's people, what kind of country do we live in? What kind of land do we live in? Where this country has a bunch of poor citizens. In this country, those people upstairs are forced to spill milk, toss bread, what kind of land is that? A country where prosperity has been promised, and from that well-being there is no b. The country where the fall of standards is every day, the country that has experienced an increase in VAT, the country that currently has 323 thousand unemployed. With such measures by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the figure will rise to 350 thousand. Are these the measures for the recovery of the Croatian economy, the rescue of Croatian agriculture? Who in this country can invest in the production of a liter of milk 4.05 kuna, and in return for that produced liter of milk gets 2.43 kuna? And that promised 2.43 kuna? This country has also invested through incentives and capital support, these people have been taking loans in business banks, high-interest loans and, if this production stops, it will not only end up being closed down by those farms, but the entire families, the entire households will go to the drum and go to the Employment Office. And free those 1600 kunas and those measures and encouraging the resuscitation of the small and medium-sized economy when we're doing this right now. Which is the state, it is said that it will be and is promised to be implemented so-called. "milk package." The fact is, and it should be said openly, that the EU has passed laws on so-called "milk package", but no EU member states implement that law. So what is Croatia not a member of the EU doing? What kind of government, what kind of ministry is it, what kind of minister that doesn't protect domestic production, doesn't protect domestic producers, domestic family economies... the tender, the country's completed tender is in drawers for more than a year. There's a problem. It's not a problem in unprocessed land. That's what the former ministry used to do. It's not a problem in unprocessed land. It's a matter of taking responsibility because there's no responsibility. What kind of minister does not protect Croatian production and protect foreign processors? What's behind that? What is behind this is that these people, and every day someone comes to this square of Mark, have not been in a cage today, but before that, many have been in that cage, why does neither the Prime Minister nor the President of the Parliament receive them? Because this is where you need to announce yourself 20 days before someone takes them in, because it's the government, because it's the Parliament that's turned to all the citizens of this country. The Ministry of Agriculture must understand that at this point by putting aside foreign processors' interests, we have warned of this as well as the HDSSB club when the 2012 budget was passed, when nearly a billion and a half kuna investment was reduced. Is that rationalization? Unless, as a HDSSB club, we're looking for a wide debate, but we're looking for a solution right now. It is the finding of funds in the budget of the Republic of Croatia or the resignation of the Minister of Agriculture. Is by his work he proved to be incapacitated for that function. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u13870	In the name of the HNS club, a respected representative, Ivica Mandic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u13871	Mr. Vice President, colleagues, colleagues, respected family economies and dairy producers. What I would like to point out in front of the HNS I would certainly like to emphasise, I do not know which times that agricultural production, and in particular milk production is certainly one of the strategic branches and one of the branches that has the task and stability of the Republic of Croatia and the market in the Republic of Croatia. So as a party, we believe that energy and agriculture are extremely important branches on which the Republic of Croatia can have certain prosperity and certain development. What I do know is that we, unanimously at the club, were actually looking for an active meeting for the Committee on Agriculture 10 days ago with the Ministry's representative to try to alleviate and solve problems in dairy production. What is now happening in dairy production is, above all, a reaction or relationship of the dairy market, and the other thing that has also affected the unfavourable is an elemental accident that has particularly deepened the production of milk and has led it into a very unfavourable position. What I also know is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Agriculture are working intensively to mitigate the existing situation or mitigate very adverse financial effects in the production of milk. So that the government and the Ministry of Agriculture, through HABOR, has made it possible for all loans and loans to be reprogrammed and tempered, to mitigate the consequences of very unfavourable milk production. What we as a club would certainly say is that here, we won't be happy if we find the culprit, that part of the bad in agriculture happened long before, as far as milk producers know that operational programs allowed funds from HABOR, raised farms, that it wasn't 1 hectare of land. It's coming slowly now, as we believe, I know it and I'll tell you...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u13872	Please, just a minute, just a little buddy of Mandic's. Comrade Mandich, just a minute. My colleagues from HDZ, I ask you nicely not to throw away, act parliamentaryly in Parliament. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u13873	...and I remain on my claim, finding that part of the operational programmes went towards family economies that didn't have 1 hectare of land and raised farms. And I take my hat off to people because it's one of the hardest productions, so that's one part of the problem. With this problem, the ministry means in the next law somewhere around 120 thousand hectares of land to enable family economies dealing with dairy production. What I don't think is also good, is that these problems between manufacturers, buyers and traders, that even traders in such a elementary year must surely bear part of their responsibility or part of their compassion with milk producers. Thus, in this year or next year, it mitigates these unfavourable financial effects, so that part of the margin is waived for the benefit of the milk producer. What is also a problem in Croatia is that dairy producers are not also owners of processing facilities. In more developed agricultural countries with developed dairy and processing production are more or less owners of processing facilities and dairy. And this is one of, perhaps, ways for the milkers to join together, to build their milk processing, actually to give their dairy products, and in this way they would in one part give in the production, whether they could have certain benefits in the placement of milk. We also believe that agricultural economies have the right to volunteer, have the right to dissatisfaction, but in our HNS, we believe that it is not a good picture that thousands and thousands of gallons of milk spill across Slavonian fields. And here, on behalf of the HNS club, I support family economies, but we ask that they have a high regard for food, because in this way their dissatisfaction is not good. I ask the family economies to deal with this difficult situation in our conversation with the government and with the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u13874	On behalf of the SDP club, the distinguished representative Dragica Zgrebec, vice president of the House, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u13875	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I always appeal from this pay phone to speak responsibly. The responsibility for the spoken word is also important when you are in power and when you are in opposition. Because when you change sides, it always comes at a charge. Unfortunately, we've been wandering a lot in agricultural policy in almost all segments of land policy, of support policy, of so-called. capital investment, and we have now come into the situation that we are before entering the European Union and what we had to join in this year and last year as well as in the framework of the common agricultural policy of the European Union. When I say that we've been wandering around a lot then this personal resource of agricultural land that was in state hands almost 20% of the total farmland in different ways we've shared. So, from the fact that it was at the county level, and in the municipalities, that's enough. I don't tell my colleague Cobankovic it was just one party. So, all this time, we've been wandering in agricultural politics, we've been back in support of encouraging one throat, one hectare, production, quality, in different ways, and these are now the consequences, the consequences in the hardest time. Even in one year of climate change, it was terribly unfavourable for agricultural production. Through the operational programmes that we supported in the SDP, but they are, there is another component left. That market component, so where your products will end. So we also have a situation where we have livestock production that doesn't have enough agricultural land to produce food and when you have to find yourself on the market to buy food, then you're in a bad situation. So all of this is now reflected, all these 20 years in one year. Both we and the SDP understand the legitimate dissatisfaction of farmers not only of cattlemen, but of total agriculture. But today we are in such a situation that we all have to have patience and that we need to talk to each other. And I think the talks that are being held within the Ministry of Agriculture and agricultural producers must continue. It's the only place you can talk. We have always advocated that such talks be conducted within the resolution ministry. What is offered at this time or can be offered? Two installments of support for milk of HRK 54.6 million were paid this week. The funds are provided for the payment of support per throat and 800 kuna per cow’s throat, i.e. 500 kuna per breast. As for the very price of milk, which is significant in the price structure, both credit and unfavourable loans and interest, a solution should be sought. For example, producers who have long been in this production who are not burdened with loans do not have. So, there is a good part of these credit and business banks that needs to see what can be done through the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development to replace such loans with more favourable credits, to reprogramme loans in the HBOR and thus lower the interest rate for the last two years on payments that go through the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. As far as the price is concerned, I think the ministry should continue to actively engage in these talks between producers and processors. At this point, dairys offer a price of 2 kunas and 43 limes. Of course, under such conditions, milk producers do not satisfy it. However, our supply policy is also such that at this point we cannot intervene enough, for example, with the production of livestock or with food for cattle, because we have run such a policy that we have not provided annual stock supplies in those sizes as long as it would be necessary when we have one such bad year. That is why we from the SDP club continue to call on producers to continue these talks at the Ministry of Agriculture and we hope that a satisfactory solution will be found. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u13876	Thank you. We're continuing to work on the established agenda now. Dear colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We will continue to work, and we will discuss - The Annual Report of the Croatian Science Foundation for 2011 The Report is submitted by the Management Board of the Croatian Foundation for Science based on Article 18. Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science. You've received the material into the boxes. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the report at the session. Would the applicant like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Respected academician Ivica Kostovic, chairman of the Management Board. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19305	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. I would like to point out that this is a privilege to speak to the Parliament, and it is logical because the Parliament is the founder of the foundation. Secondly, I can say that the foundation with the funds that remained from the previous foundation's work managed to call for a new instrument, for the new instruments of competition, these are major projects, research and co-operation, and consistently carried out an independent review, in several steps, so on. historical evaluation with participation exclusively of international reviewers. For projects less, these are mostly doctoral, post-doctoral scholarships, establishing support and other smaller foundation projects. There was a panel evaluation by our experts. The prerequisite in general for the foundation to be a member of the European Foundation for Science, and it was accepted that it was completely independent from the authorities. And based on these performance criteria, the whole process was actually carried out by the Scientific Committees. The scientific committees were selected in an international competition and there were five experts from the diaspora on these Scientific Committees, there were meanings by our experts and 10 international experts from nearby countries, only one from the United States. That's why it's about saving travel and stuff. So, through an independent review, projects have been evaluated and there has been a great hunger for projects. Over 500 were reported, and all these research groups estimated to have an international reputation, as it was a prerequisite for the application. Unfortunately, only 6% of them were funded, not because the projects were not good, but because they could only finance 1 project from each area, i.e. 2 if they were said to be co-operational projects. The question now is how could the foundation operate if the budget hasn't been allocated or liped in recent years, this year allocated to 10 million, but this foundation had no time, the board of directors to call new tenders. This is therefore not to be touched by the underlying capital and the trust is operated so that there is always the means and for the whole agreed period. So the total of 2011 was planned for 39 million for all programmes. Clearly, these funds will be allocated in 3 years as each project takes the least. Of the other advantages of this independent way of reviewing, scientific research projects should be pointed out that cooperation projects also enabled the employment of young researchers as soon as possible because the foundation had only fewer projects. Furthermore, there is a small problem, or a great problem that the foundation has not been admitted to the new European Séance Europe association, why? That is why it is a prerequisite for more budget funding to be allocated to this independent way of financing science. That I hope will improve in the next period. I can say that I am glad that science finally came to the morning part of the Parliament's programme, because that is if you closely follow the rare opportunity to also the representatives who are, the Croatian Parliament has established a foundation, asked as 8 or how many thousands of scientists, what they do if there are no funds for projects. And national sources need to be ensured so that research groups become competent and can then compete on European projects. Here, this is my brief, in a way supplementing the report that is very extensive, thorough and any representative can see from the title of the project that has been financed to how much individual member of the scientific committee we get so-called. The fee.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19306	I thank the academic Kostovic. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. On behalf of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Honorable Representative, Valter Boljunčić, will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19307	Good morning, Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, Honorable MPs and MPs. Well, here you go. You only have a brief report on your desks, so the board's report. As parent board we therefore propose to the Croatian Parliament to accept the Annual Report of the Croatian Foundation for Science for 2011. We believe that there is therefore a shift in the quality of the competition, and on the other hand we are also aware of the situation in which the material foundation of the foundation for larger and richer funding of scientific projects is located. So, just to point out that we are proposing to the Croatian Parliament to accept the annual report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19308	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. We start with clubs. The HDZ club's position will be brought closer by distinguished academic representative Zeljko Reiner, vice president of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19309	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, the HDZ Club will, of course, support this report because it really is something that shows that the foundation has worked very well and, despite relatively modest money, has succeeded in the best possible way to achieve European standards in the distribution of these money. However, what seems almost to me so I dare say tragically is that we are now discussing a report of a trust that has been positively assessed by both the government and the board and we are all likely to support it, and that in the 7th month, so before we even heard that report, did this trust normally work, did this money work with it incorrectly, did something wrong, or did it make an excellent use of it, we have adopted a law that significantly alters some of the fundamental functions of the foundation. That, I say again, is just funny and just illustrates how it hastily, quickly, without thinking goes into some steps, and instead of putting it all off together, that it was brought a little later here after this report. This report could have been in the 7th month, and now we can discuss any changes to the law if we were to conclude on the basis of the report that something needs to be changed at all. But of course we didn't do it that way. We are again by no means aware of which times by an urgent procedure entirely contrary to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of this House which clearly states that, by an urgent procedure, laws are exclusively passed only when the interests of the defence or other justifiable, in particular the justified state reasons which were certainly not in this case, we, in breach of the provisions of our Rules of Procedure, have nevertheless adopted a new law which is now positively assessed by both the Government and I believe of all of us. In what sense will this new law change significantly? So, first of all, what has been a very positive step and in the functioning of the foundation, and this is also highlighted, and we have all commended it or we will commend it, which is that for the first time in the Republic of Croatia, the competition for large projects has been conducted according to all the criteria that it is in the EU, so that the international review according to all European procedures, in fact, one procedure that is impeccable has been developed and that I guarantee that I will once again stress the modest financial resources that we have for science will be used in the best possible way, that the best scientists will get them and that the results will probably be the best possible results. So what has been achieved thanks to the existence of scientific committees chosen in the international competition now, so let's be aware of that now after this report, which we will probably all praise to abolish, they will no longer be. How is that going to be evaluated? Who knows? This is not defined in the new bill. That should be better than the old man if we even think we should change. However, we brought it, once again emphasized, before we even evaluated the report whether it was right or wrong. So we changed that law and now it won't be. There will therefore be no more scientific committees that have chosen experts and scientists to evaluate this based on an international tender. So what the foundation has created over the past period has created organisational and humane assumptions for the achievement of European standards in evaluation, monitoring, funding research projects and scientists will now be no more. It may be with the will of someone to establish it or it may not be established, but in any case, such a provision is no longer in the new law. So, you have to make that very clear. Acadamik Kostovic mentioned one thing that seems to me quite important and over which we cannot easily cross, and that is that we will probably not be able to fit into Science Europe which in 2015 will start really working because she did not invite the Republic of Croatia to enter. Only three countries have not been invited, unfortunately Croatia is one of the three countries, and the good wishes of Kostovic's academics that we will be invited, I'm afraid, will not come true. And it won't happen because I'm afraid, because I'm asked to have a body that assesses scientific projects, which decides on the distribution of money by scientific projects be independent. This was before the case, however, by changing the laws that we all clearly raised our hands in the 7th month will no longer be an independent body, it is actually by its characteristics and is no longer a foundation, it will be formally called a foundation, it will actually be one agency that will be completely dependent on the course of politics. It doesn't matter at all what policy, but the current policy, the next day to the second current policy, but depending on politics, and it won't be as required by Science Europe. Therefore, this is one of the major problems, and next, I am afraid there will be great difficulties, if not impossible for the Republic of Croatia to withdraw funds for science from the European Funds of dedicated sciences. One more thing that's very important, and it's a tendering process. We must be aware that the tenders are not scheduled last year, they are not scheduled this year, there is absolutely no indication of when they will be called. The money was scheduled until 1.10 this year. If there's going to be money, literally change for these other two, three months by the end of the year, no one actually knows, there's probably a little money left. The sums left and assigned to projects are literally ridiculous, literally ridiculous. For example, significant projects receive 10,000 kuna per month, e.g. They're such significant projects. Just for comparison, since I took part in the evaluation and the freemore program, and 6 and 7 projects. As an EU expert, I can tell you that such projects there are funded with approximately 100 thousand euros per month, ours with 10 thousand kuna and less funding. The ratio is therefore quite clear to you, 1:100 is approximately, and some science is expected to be produced here, but to all of us, all of us are full of mouths that we want science and that knowledge will get this country out of trouble, etc. etc. Why did I specifically mention the tendering procedure? Because, as I said, no one is alive talking about when the contest will be called, but that they will be called tomorrow, that tomorrow they will be asked around, and obviously they are not prepared at all, and ask God when they will be called, that tomorrow they will be written down, I am calculating by law the minimum time it would take to make a contract is 310 days. However, it is completely unrealistic because whoever has little experience in scientific projects, applications, etc. It's more real somewhere between one and one-and-a-half. I ask you all here what will happen to Croatian science and funding, so over the next 1.5 years? No one knows that alive, no one has the answer. When projects are to be called, will projects be called after that, even if they are asked about what will happen until some projects are accepted or rejected and their funding begins? We don't have the answer, but we've changed the law, we've forced the changes of the law, and now we have the situation as it is. So, of course, by supporting this report from the Science Foundation, we have to say that I am deeply concerned, deeply concerned about what a report from the Foundation for Science will look like to the new, actually state agencies, no more foundations, for when, in probably a year, we will gather again and what we will hear as the next report. But I'm even more concerned about what's going to happen to science in Croatia which, I must say, I'm afraid of the lowest branches since I've been involved in this science. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19310	I thank Vice President Reiner. We have reported three replicas. First respected representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19311	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Reiner here, I would say that this is not about us being one of the perverse procedures set up in this Croatian Parliament in this term, but, of course, according to the Croatian Government's proposals for laws and acts to come to the Parliament. Not only in the Law on the Croatian Foundation for Science, but also in a number of other laws where we first change the law by emergency procedure, and then we receive reports on the work of institutions that are related to this law. Here we had a recent example of the Law on Prosecution where a new law is proposed, without a report to be submitted by the Ministry under the current law then there is a solution that the new law prescribes that a report to the Croatian Parliament is no longer necessary. On the other day, we had only an emergency procedure of the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, where we also changed and refurbished that office at a small door, without having any record of what the reasons were and what were the results of the law’s work. So I guess that's what the whole public sees, actually, that the reason for this urgent process is to change a series of laws without having insight into the work, the previous work of institutions. In fact, the only reason to allow an emergency staff shift and to change the leaders so far and, of course, without a public tender is to place those who are similar to the new political set, or as they like to be called, who are responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19312	Replication response, Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19313	Well, thank you very much. Dear MPs, you've verbalized what I didn't actually verbalize, which is that, you can't take away the impression that this speed that went into urgent, urgent changes to the law was really motivated primarily by the fact that the current administrative bodies of the trust that the note was not consulted at all in the preparation of the bill's amendment. And if it were really of some other importance, the greater importance of changing this law so urgently, it would have been expected that it was really valuable every day to prepare a new project system, then it would have been expected that in that period, in the spring of this year, it would have been often and intensely involved in the management of the foundation in preparing these changes, in the preparation of new competition discussions, etc. This was not the case at all, the management of the foundation was not contacted at all, and apparently the reason was just to replace the President of the Board of Directors and Foundation Management here, and then we'll see what happens next. And I'm afraid it's neither easy nor good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19314	Another replica, Honorable Representative Damir Tomic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19315	Thank you very much. We've really witnessed this wheezing HDZ for the past 10 months, but it's terrifying that they link a body's report to changes in the law. If we'd done that, you'd have sent us some reports from 2005. We could've waited forever for the law to change. So it can't be good at all. The law is changed because of a change in the framework so that future reports will be better and that the results will be better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19316	Replication response, Vice President Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19317	It is very logical to link the report to a change of law which was the sole purpose of changing the administration of that body submitted by the report. So the purpose of changing the body that the report submitted is that I guess that body did not perform its function well. We have a very clear situation here that this body was doing a great job of doing what the government agreed to, and we all agreed on that, but the law was changing anyway, and it was primarily for that reason. So he didn't, and he didn't exist, and neither was there any other reason why the law would have to change. Unfortunately, therefore, this observation of yours does not stand at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19318	And the third replica, the esteemed representative of Walter Boluncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19319	Thank you. Well, I wouldn't bring up a debate on changes to whether the board of directors is changing or not. First of all, science is a good process, which is that most of the boards or management posts in science are limited by law to one or two mandates highest and there is a shift after two or four years something that must be legally done for rectors, deans and such things. The second thing is that having had a positive 2011 report does not mean that it could not have been passed before the new law. If the foundation functions well under one law, this does not mean that by changing a certain way of doing business that should not be established by a new law. You have cars that were great, but there's a new model that wasn't created because this one had a malfunction, but because it's better. The second is the fact that I think in your debate you yourself said the need for a new law to come. You said it wasn't the funds, that they couldn't go to the competition. And the purpose of the new law is to put together all the resources that have so far been put through the trust and through other sources and through sources of the Ministry of Science where projects really were with some 10 thousand kunas financed, which would be enough for people only for some basic material costs. So the idea of the new law was to unite the money, to create a better organization and to give it a greater impulse of science. On the other hand, as long as we're in a crisis like this, everything has to be in an emergency procedure because we can have an excellent law, whether it's old or new, but if there's no money, if the economy doesn't work, then there won't be any. I hope that this new law will succeed in putting money on a pile, that some of the remarks that have been made to say certain scientific projects will also be given by some other criteria, and not only by exceptional scientific criteria contribute to that. Therefore, the fact that the report was positive, and what changed the law should not be in any contradiction, and you yourself said that money is not enough, so something needs to be changed in the organization of funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19320	The replica matches the esteemed vice president of the House of Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19321	So, of course, the administrative bodies are actually changing and that's logical, but they need to be changed according to the law, regulations and after a certain mandate unless they work. As this worked, there was no reason. However, speaking of how administrative bodies are formed, it should also be said that the law we adopted in the 7th month completely excludes the role of the academic community. The Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, the Rectors' Assembly, the National Council for Science, the University, etc., who, under the previous law, made mandatory contributions to members of the Governing Council now is no longer a case, they do not have to, they can propose, and the Government can decide whether or not to choose them, either of them or all of them as they will. So that's the first thing. The second thing, when we talk about the connection and the emergency procedure of the law and the housing related to scarce funding, there's absolutely no connection, because even under the old law, projects could be called normally, so they didn't call. Now we have a new law, we don't see, which only complicates things, we don't see any indication that a competition will be opened for new projects. And like I said, it'll take a year, a year and a half to wait for the contracts to be signed in the first place and to start working on these projects and they'll start funding themselves. So I see absolutely no reason why these projects couldn't be called in six months after the old law. And uniting everything into one cash register is the result of only having a third less money. In that register will be for this year already for the next third less money, for this one, and for the next God knows how much. For this one-third less money so united. Well, it's lovelyly transparent, but it's significantly less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19322	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Party, Croatian Labour Party MP Nikola Vuljanic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19323	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The Science Foundation was founded as a matter of fact by some kind of state institution. It could've been called an agency, but in the world it's called a foundation, so we called it a foundation, although it doesn't have all the elements the foundations have. The main objective was to finance, through the foundation, scientific projects that promote the key word enforcement. And it's all at the beginning of the first 1, 2, 3, Professor Lucin seems to be running that trust. All of this, let's say it worked, there were objections, of course, that it was particularly committed to some scientific disciplines, that others were neglected, etc. but it was more or less consistent and after the initial delay there was no longer this type of objection. The initial funding of the foundation was good and it was a significant amount of money that promised the possibility of organising scientific projects at such a level as to guarantee the performance in the results. But then came various, various crisis years, until there was this official crisis the funding of the trust was reduced from the state budget, so one year it was gone, so the second year there was 50%, etc. And projects funded by a large majority foundation have been reduced to those projects that were otherwise funded by the Ministry of Scientists mostly in colleges. With a monthly budget of 10, 15 thousand kunas and such projects they can't and no one expects to serve something else, but to allow that professor to go to some counseling abroad, and eventually buy a new computer, buy some books and so forth. Recently, I was at a counseling session in Dubrovnik, international scientific counselling of textiles, so a branch that is quite dead with us, no one thinks of it in any way. A professor of American, an Indian from origin runs a project there of new fibers, making new fibers that completely absorb their electromagnetic radiation, so for the purposes of course of the Pentagon and NASA and all that together, but also of course for industrial needs. It's a state project, a state project whose budget is twice as big as our science budget. Now, expect some steps from Croatian science in the light of future and projects, and results at Nobel and similar awards with 10, 15 thousand kunas is monthly illusory. What in this report, which is of course brilliantly done and systematically and says everything that has happened, what the report does not have is another key word that should always be mentioned in Croatia with the word science, which is technology. Croatia's basic, important scientific research with this money today, and neither tomorrow nor tomorrow, the day after and in the beautiful future will God know what to do. And on the technological plan, that's a whole other thing, technology is actually the use of brains that happened where this kind of money is spent, the application of our terms, and that's where we can and we have to do it. We must, what is the task of Croatian science, in fact, especially this part that can be associated with industry, is to train our industry and to do what the West will no longer do for a variety of reasons, economic, environmental, which, I don't know, doesn't matter which, and the East doesn't know yet. When the East learns that, he will do it cheaper, which is why the textile industry in Croatia has failed, and Germany has not. In Germany, the textile industry today is 4 industries per income and per profit. Why? Because they're doing heart-tec products, something the Chinese don't know yet. They don't try to make cheap shirts and cheap shirts because in Germany, of course, they can't. We weren't so smart when China entered the world trade organization in 2000, and still our businessmen received awards for what kind of kuna it was, gold, silver I don't know what, for a company that did long jobs. As soon as Serbia got rid of sanctions, as soon as China entered the world organisation, of course long jobs failed completely, you can't live on them anymore it's perfectly clear. But there seems to me the role of Croatian science to help with recovery. The scientific work requires a systematic organisation and systematic funding. Systemic organization exists, we don't invent hot water, there are institutions there and ways of managing, okay the law changed anyway, but that system is firm all in all. Solid because Croatian scientists have, and especially the academic community, mechanisms to defend against the aggression of the government. And they use these mechanisms, and they use them when they need to, and they use them well. Funding, today we talk about the foundation, we'll talk about the council later, but the real conversation that needs to be held on Croatian higher education and science is when the point of the 2012 budget comes, there's talk about politics, this is form, this is form there is politics. If you look at how the resources for science have moved and what level of scientific resources have come to Croatia you will see that it is a curve down and that it is far, far from any European average even below the resources of the share in the social product of our poorer neighbours. A report like this can be very good, but as long as it's so content, of course it won't. The programmes and projects the foundation has accepted, approved and funded have indeed been selected according to the criteria of the best models in the West. And those criteria are good. I think they're balanced and they shouldn't be changed. There are also a few subtitles that confuse me a little bit, one project is the creation of a professional title. Compliments, of course. Neither Croatian nor various professions especially technical in Croatia can function properly without a professional title on individual professions. I'm not sure we're not already doing a job in one part of it. A few years ago, the Croatian patent office, for example, made a list for patent applications to the nomenclature of terms. This technical title nomenclature covers most of the technical branches. Customs accepted that nomenclature and it operates on imports and so on. I don't know if this project is built into it, so it's being upgraded or if this is moving over and over again, you can't see it here. As far as I'm concerned, it's starting over, which, of course, is the cost. The development of research careers is one of the important functions of the foundation. The funding of our young scientists to go into the world, learn something and come back smarter and more professional than they've ever gone, it's a great idea, a great idea, but what worries me are hundreds of scientific recruits and assistants who will, after doctoring, after the course of those five years that the state pays to stay on the road. Who will send them where, who will hire them? If it belongs here, it doesn't belong here, but the problem is the same. One of the heads is the cooperation with the economy. In Croatia, unfortunately scientific research and almost complete research and developements are concentrated in institutes and universities. So the collaboration comes down to something being made and presented at the university institute, selling industry until industry develops its own research capacities as it is in successful countries, this is going to be one-way cooperation actually. And that's a shame, of course. Competitions don't show up and people at my college call me every day, do you know something, will anything happen, what happens? Nothing's going on. Is there any money? Is there any money or as much money as it says here? Is there any money in cash that can be opened? If there are, why aren't the competitions being debated? And is it clear to anyone who should be calling these competitions that the really big project is going on for a year, a year and a half. I have experience, my university group of scientists got an international project in collaboration with Graz, I've been working on it a little bit, it's been a year and a half. A 2m-euro project. It's a serious project, let's say. We can't expect this to last, what's going on with us to last much shorter. Our administrative procedures are mostly longer and more complicated so that what we would call now and in six months' time, it could go into business in a year and a half, two. Of course, what is lacking in Croatian science and not just science, what is lacking in this country is a comprehensive strategy. What we'd like, what we'd like to develop, where we'd like to go. We know where we'd like to go. We would like to reach the level of the Netherlands, Belgium, Switzerland, etc. And of course we can because we're a beautiful, rich and decent country, right, but which way to get there and what our tools are going to be to get there, it's still no decent thing to put on paper. Croatia has been working on a few strategies. One of the strategies was the Sustainable Development Strategy, and it seems to me that you were the minister when it was done. It is a beautiful book where many things are written about industrial branches in Croatia, smart conclusions. She ended up on the shelf. She was well-recorded. None of that happened. I expect the authorities who are considering the future of this country to actually make a strategy they will sign and agree on all policy options. So when the power changes so we don't throw everything in the trash in cleaning drawers, then we throw the kid in the sewer with dirty water and the kid. That we agree on something in this country and it becomes a starting line from which the state will move on. Scientific development is one of those points that I believe we could agree on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19324	Thank you, too. The desire to replicate this exhibition was first expressed by distinguished colleague Zeljko Reiner, vice president of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19325	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Well, I agree with most of what the esteemed representative Vuljanic said, and I've only actually called in maybe to clarify one thing. So, the Science Foundation has financed so far not these little projects that I've been talking about, so a couple thousand kunas a month, etc. Its role was to finance major priority projects. And she's been doing it, with about the same funding for the last few years until next year's projection when the money would be half as much as this year. And why is it different from these 2,200 about small projects that were funded by the Ministry of Health? Because, for example, the figures talk a lot, so the foundation has received requests and applications for about 400 projects as priority, each of us scientists thinks that their top priority. However, she evaluated and assessed the international review, only about 5%, of course there was more money, there would be more, I just want to say there is this difference, these are major projects, priority projects, and their funding was different from what the Ministry of Science funded. Now, however, all of this is put together with significantly less money and the logic of things is that everyone is going to lose a lot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19326	The replica corresponds to the respected Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19327	Of course, Professor Reiner's fact is that initial funding and funding projections were such that major, significant projects of strategic importance and the whole story would be financed. However, when you start saving, then you save a) in school, b) in science, c) in health, and every time like that. It's bit by bit, and in the end there's something that nobody really thought about at the beginning, and it didn't have to, because that kind of project could have been financed more easily through the Ministry of Science without any problem, it didn't need a foundation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19328	On the basis of the basic line, Valter Boljunčić, an esteemed colleague, also stands up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19329	Here I wanted to look back maybe on a statement that was like this, this is how it's about organisation of community and higher education, and it's a pretty solid organization that's known to oppose change. However, the fact of the, and the past and the bill of amendments to the law when he was Minister Professor Fucks, even the present, we saw that not only in such... but also according to the newspapers, the different opinions of one part and the other part. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So I think that the academic community needs an organization in which they will agree, because I think that what we could read definitely has no style, no view of what changes are needed and what changes are necessary. So what Croatian science, higher education still holds are exclusively, I mean teachers who do it well, and also students of our students who listen to them complain about tuition and other things. However, as they leave the country and find work outside, they are well educated. What is missing is primarily one organization and a different way of working, and then a system of funding to prevent the loss of these small funds where it shouldn't be. So with that part, it's a solid organization, I don't agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19330	And in this replica we will hear the answer of the esteemed Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19331	Of course, the academic community has attitudes and mechanisms because it can afford to have attitudes. It's not that simple to have attitudes, and attitudes come from practice. For decades now, it didn't start in the '90s, and before that, we've been schizophrenic about how our education system, especially high education, is not good. It's all garbage, and all of it, all of it needs to be scattered and organized by Shuvarovska or some other method. And in the same sentence, we tie up, we have a huge brain drain, so someone buys our brains in the world, someone who does it for real money. Well, he wouldn't buy garbage. Apparently, it comes out this way, from the education of smart people when someone buys them, and well-educated people. So with every reform you need to be very careful, not make hasty moves. The same is absolutely true of the organisation of science in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19332	Here are three replicas, the esteemed Ivan Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19333	I agree with Mr. MP, who stressed the need to unite the work of scientific institutions and economies. The way we got into this problem, in my opinion, it's a folk saying, "Sad Road, Grandma Forest."so that these 2 segments cannot be found and helped to get out of the crisis. The second was one, one move to establish a university in Croatia as scientific centres and one nation, one city, a larger city. We had eight universities that were burdened by the Ministry of Science. In addition, we have agencies, foundations, and now this should be in line with what Mr. Agent Nikola said, unite and create a strategic development plan for Croatia for the next 20 years. It takes time, will and patience to do so, as well as perseverance to reach the National Development Plan for Croatia, in which science would not be neglected, but which should make a major contribution to the development of the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19334	Col. Nikola Vuljanić will now respond to this replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19335	Thank you. Unfortunately, this topic of economic and science co-operation has become a somewhat secondary topic in Croatia, not accidentally. If you remember what happened in the '90s. Or, in the 1990s, when Pliva was sold, for example. The first thing the new boss did was shut down the institute. Similarly, it took place in Karlovac in the south of the turbine and in Končar and in many other places in Croatia. These moves went directly to abolish the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. The developmental component of sovereignty is by abolishing this science in the economy practically not being abolished today. The only thing left is this under the state cap at the institutes and now it can serve as a service to the economy but it's not cooperation. It's a service sale. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19336	We are continuing to debate the clubs, so I invite the respected representative, Damir Tomic, to bring us closer to the SDP club's position.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19337	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. The Annual Report of the Croatian Science Foundation for 2011 is before us not a draft law, not a strategy. Long ago at the beginning of the term I said that I would be happy if we had a strategy for developing Croatian education and higher education 15, 20 years ago to be a rich society today. Unfortunately, we didn't have any. It's time to make it. As far as the 2011 Foundation is concerned, it is the year in which the Foundation celebrates its 10 years of existence. During this whole period, the Foundation approved 250 projects worth 70 million kuna. It is commendable that the Foundation also opened a tender for research projects and cooperation research projects in 2011. It also signed a Declaration of Accession to the European Charter for Researchers and Codes of Employment of Researchers. So, the body, this body, the foundation that we're talking about, it's well done in the given frames. But we want to change the frameworks, but this is not a topic. This is just another answer from my colleague Reiner that we can't bring this report into contact with the amendments to the law. I'll remind you we had some reports coming to us about some things in the period 2005, 2006. Which would have happened if we'd waited for those reports and changed the law on this issue. Very ungrateful. In addition, despite the report's position that the Foundation is unable to call programmes and tenders due to the problem of national funding for scientific research in 2012. It is evident that neutral assets from 2011 were transferred in 2012. It's worth slightly more than 69 million kuna. Also, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports approved the budget, projected a pardon of 10 million kuna for Croatian Foundations for Science for 2012, and expenditure in 2011 was 17 million kuna. This makes it quite clear that funds are provided for the launch of programmes and projects to promote science, higher education and technological development in our homeland. It is interesting to note that this Report also contains the Strategic Plan of the Foundation for the period 2011, 2015. However, it is unclear why the Government of the Republic of Croatia did not take the opinion of the corrected version of this plan even though the Management Board of the Foundation made the decision another 8. September 2011. Of course in the report, the proposed frameworks well describe the organisational structure of the Foundation, the Foundation's programmes are well described, the tendering process and the evaluation of the project proposals are well described, the projects of the Foundation are well described and international cooperation is well described. In view of all of the above, the SDP Representatives Club will accept this Annual Report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19338	Thank you, too. Now we'll hear it, please? In the name of the club, the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, appears. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19339	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, I would like to request a break on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club for 15 minutes. But I suggest, if you agree to give us that break after the debate is over and these science reports. We are looking for Stanko because of the situation in Croatian agriculture, because of the state of the dairy producers, because of the general situation in the industry that monitors agriculture, I am looking for a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19340	Okay. We still have our hands in the air. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19341	On behalf of the Croatian Labourists for the same reasons, I am looking for a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19342	HDSSB.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19343	We're also looking for a 15-minute break for the same reasons. I'd just like to warn the collegiation, since we all agreed to look together after, so these agenda points, that's how it's gonna be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19344	Please discuss in the towers who's fair, who's not fair. HNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19345	Also on behalf of the HNS club with the same theme we're looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19346	SDP. Okay. Then we'll hear more points of view from the HNS Club and the esteemed representative Igor Coleman, and then I'll set a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19347	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished academic Kostovic. Given this new situation, I will make an effort to make this one of the shorter exposures on behalf of the club, the more the colleagues of the predecessors have mostly mentioned everything than the problem here is in a narrower and broader sense. Both me and the HNS club, mostly most of everything that's been said, can also be signed. The HNS Club will, of course, support this report and that part probably wasn't at any point controversial. So, counterpart Tomic said that over the past 10 years 450 projects have been funded for 70 million kuna. What I would add is that it's 156 grand per project, which then when a man looks at it in those ratios, it actually doesn't sound too convincing. The Foundation signed a declaration of accession to the European Charter of Researchers and the Code of Employment of Researchers, however, the fact is that we have a problem, that we are not part of a session of Europe and that at this point it is large, in a way a negative point for the Republic of Croatia, not for the Foundation, but for the Republic of Croatia and science. The proceeds of the foundation were 1 839 442 kuna, expenditure 17 637. Of these expenditures, around 2,900 went to salaries, fees and cold drive, so it was financed from the years transferred. And now, of course, all these discussions that are being held, whether the report should have been before, whether the law should have been before, whether the funds have been transferred or not, whether the ministry has given 10 million kuna or not. What we consider and want to point out again is that we here in Croatia have a principled, systematic problem of funding science and knowledge, we invest too little in science and knowledge. The budget was announced within a month if I heard it well and realized, it is the second budget that we bring in this composition of the Croatian Parliament and I honestly think my colleagues from the HNS honestly believe that if we do not have the courage in the budget that comes to significantly increase investment for science and knowledge in a broader sense in the Republic, we have no chance of taking a serious step forward and a serious step out of the situation we are in. What we, when I speak, think of those of us who have taken responsibility for the management of the state at this moment, we must have the courage and tell all those who use funds from the Republic budget, not some, not some, and we will, and we will not, we will not have to tell everyone we have increased your resources or we have reduced your resources because we have given you for science, research, higher education, but general education and knowledge in every way. And until we have the courage to do this step we won't be able to make the state, as an economy we won't be able to take a step forward and we all need to be aware of that. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19348	Thank you. We will now hear the final words of the President of the Management Board of the Croatian Foundation for the Science of Academics Ivica Kostovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19349	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, I thank you that all clubs, all parties essentially supported the need for greater investment in science, clearly with performance criteria and evaluations according to European standards. From the point of view of the Foundation and its executive, professional, administrative and administrative bodies, as well as from this Management Board, I only appeal that the scientific resources would continue to be allocated after a strict, strict and professional evaluation procedure. And I also wanted to make it clear that this little funding for big projects was, of which, a third of the technology funds, for projects that improve technology. It is clear that the MPs have not seen this fat book and all the contributions, but you can do any project that the foundation has funded, the name of the project, who is the bearer and the total asset. In the end, just another clarification, the trust, why did I see some kind of misunderstanding, why does the trust leave 70 million? So good business? That's why he has contracted projects for 3 years, so they're committed to projects and legally valid contracts. So it's good for the trust that there is, it's good that the projects will be started and completed by strict criteria and good business, but that doesn't mean that it has the resources for new projects, that's important. Here, thank you again for supporting science.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19350	I also thank academic Ivica Kostovic. I'm closing the debate, and I'm setting a 10-minute break. We'll continue at 10.45. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19351	Annual Report of the Croatian Foundation for Science for 2011. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal from the working bodies, I am voting the following conclusion: "The Annual Report of the Croatian Foundation for Science for 2011 is accepted". I'm asking you to state who's in favour of the proposed conclusion. Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of the vote's conclusion has been accepted and 120 for and 4 abstentions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19352	We are now continuing to work on the established agenda and we are moving to the point - Report on the work of the National Council for Science of the Republic of Croatia for 2011 The Reporter is the National Council for Science and this is the basis of Article 13. Law on scientific activity and higher education. You received the material by mail. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the report at the session. I'm asking if the motionor would like to give an additional explanation. Yeah. Doctor Maja Vehovec, president of the National Science Council. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19353	Honorable representatives of the Croatian Parliament, as president of this year's National Science Council appointed by you in the seventh month of this year, I am in the role of explaining the work of the National Science Council in 2011. The debate was held on the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. On this committee we have changed the information and I would like to convey to you that the Committee and the opinion of the committee you have before you is fundamentally correct. The National Council for Science is not as it was written right here, it failed fully in the implementation of certain legal obligations it had during 2011. But I also have to explain it to the general public. And it's that the National Science Council in 2011 worked for the first three months of that year. Can I go on? The first three months of 2011, and then turned into forced inactivity because of the unnamed members to be appointed, suggested the Ministry of Science to the Assembly. [[attack chairman: Only you speak]] And by the time it was done for seven months, it was inactive. The activity began again in November and November. So two months at the end of 2011. In those two months when I became a member of that National Science Council, we were actually only doing operational issues, described here as technical issues because they were accumulated at the time of the National Science Council's inactivity. The only thing I can say is that this inactivity was not only caused by the National Council for Science but by objective circumstances, and all the strategic issues that we were supposed to have done in 2011 started working and hastily being done under my presidency, meaning since the fall of this year, part of the things that have been resented here in 2011 will certainly be completed. We will submit the frameworks and the background of the Scientific Centres of Excellence, improve certain regulations and do everything possible by the end of the calendar year, and for more serious questions may be completed early next year due to seriousness such as. networks of public health organisations. Here, I think I explained, in fact, the very specific work and circumstances of the National Science Council in 2011 and I hope to come before this body with a much better report in 2012. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19354	Thank you. Does the Committee’s rapporteur want to take the floor? Yeah. Committee on Education, Science and Culture and Honorable Representative Valter Bjemunčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19355	Thank you. Mr. Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs! As already stated in the introduction, therefore, most of the votes of 7 to 3 in its session decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly not to accept the 2011 report on the work of the National Council for Science of the Republic of Croatia, given that the Council was not concerned with strategic but more technical issues, although, of course, with a note that due to the untimely election of all members, it was partially prevented in its work. So I'm saying it's a proposal not to accept the report on work.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19356	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. On behalf of the SDP Club, a respected representative, Damir Tomic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19357	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues! Another report today, we won't accept it this time. Namely, the National Council for Science is the most professional body to care for the development and quality of the entire scientific activities of the science system in the Republic of Croatia. This body is responsible for its work to the Croatian Parliament, in accordance with the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education. Looking at this report that's really detailed, we can determine that besides detail, it's not about anything. In addition to some objective circumstances mentioned by the President, the Council has shown that this Council has not fully succeeded in carrying out its tasks under that Law. Furthermore, the Law stipulates that the National Council is discussing issues of importance for scientific activity and proposes and encourages the adoption of measures to improve it. However, over the past years the Council has not drawn up a quality proposal for measures to improve scientific activities in the Republic of Croatia. Also, the Regulation on conditions for the selection of scientific knowledge, despite the broad debate, has not been substantially amended in 2005. During the multi-annual period, meaning not only applies to 2011, this Council has not declared its scientific centres of excellence, which was its task, nor has it participated in giving an opinion on the establishment of scientific technology parks. The National Council was also obliged to propose to the Croatian Parliament a strategic document of the network of public health organisations containing guidelines and criteria for the establishment of public scientific organisations and the projection of the establishment of new public scientific organisations in order to implement the evaluation process under the external insurance and quality promotion system. That document, despite the deadlines set, has not been adopted to this day. Although there were, therefore, some objective reasons mentioned by the president, we believe that this Council could have done better and completed its tasks. The SDP representative club will not accept this report with the hope that the 2012 report will be much better and that we will look forward to the results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19358	Thank you very much. The positions of the HDZ Club will be presented by the respected Zeljko Reiner, vice president of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19359	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! So, before us this report is, and first of all, it is not good that a new president, Mrs. Vehovec, was put in place, that she was actually talking about what happened last year, because she was a member of that Council but was not chaired by it. However, the situation is what it is and it is quite certain that there was clearly a whole series of problems in the work of the Council over the last year. This series of problems is reflected in the fact that, as the report states, the Council has been working on a new proposal for a Regulation on conditions of choice for scientific reference, but it did not in fact clearly send it to anyone expecting a permanent Science Act that did not happen then or until the day of today, but in any case, it failed to do so either. It did not declare the scientific centres of excellence which was also one of the tasks. It put forward a proposal for a network of public scientific organisations in the Republic of Croatia, however, in order not to actually get into certain situations it simply proposed that the existing situation in the register of scientific organisations remain what it is. It is also evident from the report that the final proposal for a strategic document of a network of public scientific organisations with all guidelines and criteria for the establishment of public scientific organisations and the projection of the establishment of new public health organisations did not actually make it, but asked the Croatian Parliament to bring it in. Obviously, the Croatian Parliament is not a body in which it can be brought, but it can be decided on the basis of a proposal. So there's one whole series of tasks that obviously haven't been done and of course they can be partly justified by the situation that the council was working in the back of the system, but the question is how much can it actually justify what was not done. The problem is one I would also say about elections in scientific titles where the proposal was made with stricter criteria somewhat, but of course it never became official, it was never actually applied. And when we talk about the criteria for scientific calling, of course, I have to admit I'm always here in some kind of doubt. On the one hand, I have always represented and will represent stricter criteria in assessing progress and for scientific calling, etc., but on the other hand, when a man looks at the reality of funding science then he asks himself how it is possible for Croatian scientists to still produce, yet they publish in the world’s top magazines. How is it even possible with such miserable means of science to produce any science? We need to be aware of one fact that we stand out a little more than 0.7% of GDP for science. The average European countries stand out about 3 times as much. So I'm talking about relative relationships, not absolute relationships. Many of them are far richer than Croatia. Therefore, in absolute terms it is incomparably more. In my previous discussion, I said that sometimes it is 100 times more for a project. But when we take relatively, so relative relations are only a percentage of GDP 0.7 and some percent relative to 2.5 to 3% as much as most European countries, including those countries that have passed the same transition, etc. Isolating. That is why I would say that it is a wonder how well Croatian scientists can still function, but of course they and all of us are dissatisfied with it. And I must admit that I absolutely agree with all that in the previous discussion on the previous item of the agenda said the esteemed Agent Coleman that our mouths are often full of science, knowledge, etc. We also read in the newspapers that from this difficult and poor economic situation, we can only be drawn from science, the promotion of knowledge, the land of knowledge. I have to admit that this expression of the land of knowledge usually only causes me to blink on my back because it literally acts like a joke in real terms when we know how much it's funded. And that's why, and that's why I'd like to end up with exactly what my esteemed colleague Coleman said, and that's why we're going to be here in a month to look at the State Budget proposal. Unbound by which party we are, are we on the right-hand side, are we on the left-hand side, are we in the middle after these discussions I'm just asking you, please ask yourself, when you see the numbers we're going to give for science, is that what we all really want? And are we ever going to have a face after that if we single out again like now 0.7% will we have cheeks then look at those thousands of people who are working in this scientific field as hard as they can, who are working hard, and some of whom are successful and publishing works in really top magazines, enormous effort, enormous torment, with conditions incomparably worse than their colleagues abroad who have to deal with and who have to be comparable if they want to publish in top journals, and the only product of science is the published result of scientific. There are no other measures for the success of science below the published result. So, let's remember when we talk about the budget and let's not be two-faced then, let's not for these or those reasons, for the reasons of party obedience, because what they're telling us is there's no money for either of this, or for what, let's not close our eyes to this fact that in this country we're giving out a miserable percentage for science, so less than a percentage actually for science, and let's be aware of that if there's any point in discussing science at all, if we want to talk about it, we just have to create some minimum conditions, and they're financially, no other. And no other stories about whether this body or that body will be chosen or not will be chosen, whether it will succeed in pushing its people to lead. These people won't be able to do anything unless they have the means to make something fair. So, when we decide here in a month, all together on the state budget, I put it to your heart to remember that we all swear that we are all full of our mouths that we want to develop science in this country that we don't want young scientists to leave in hundreds and go away, they're leaving more and more in hundreds abroad, not just because of higher wages but simply because of working conditions. We have reduced with this kind of funding, and we will be aware to a much worse level, to a miserable level of working conditions of these scientists, and again I stress many of them are willing to work and work for very small money, incomparably less money than in other sectors. But if we don't give them the working conditions then they won't be able and those young people will be leaving in a growing number and still out, we'll be producing personnel for abroad. So I'm just putting it on all of us, so let's just remember in a month when we're going to decide on the state budget and let's not be two-faced and not pretend we didn't know about all this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19360	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Damir Tomic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19361	Thank you very much. I'd like to refer to a few things my colleague Reiner said. I'm glad he agrees with most of those things I said about just the report. We talked here, he talked a lot about other things, so I'd look back on it. When he said we couldn't claim to be a land of knowledge, that we had to be realistic, I could agree with that. But at the same time, I don't know what kind of asset increase he's looking for. Why didn't they increase them? I am convinced that now in this mandate, in the next budget, we will increase resources for science and education. Also when he said that the most important financial aspect I would only complement that important is very, but even more important is the control of the funds, i.e. the funds spent. And finally just to remind him of the debate about the previous point when he said that we should wait for the report before we go into a change of law, and now he said that the rules on conditions for choice in scientific knowledge were not passed because they were waiting for a new law. So they were waiting for the new law, and we were supposed to wait for the report. A little contradictory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19362	Thank you, too. We have a reply to the replica, Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19363	Well, I'd primarily look back on this how it was just as little or even less money. Let me just tell you two numbers, and the numbers say everything. In 2011, total investment in scientific and research projects and programmes was slightly less than 150 million kuna, in 2012 about 110 million kuna. So, drastically less, drastically less than it's total. I'm not talking about certain items and juggling between items. The juggling between the items can always be made in the budget so somewhere you give a little less, and then you say that you gave a lot more, and it turns out to be a little more etc. I'm talking about total funds, so the total funds this year were less than last year. I'm scared, and I hope you'll all reassure me of that vote on the state budget that's not going to happen next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19364	Thank you, too. On behalf of the club of representatives of Croatian Labour Party party Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19365	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. These are formally two points, two reports, two bodies, but the subject is actually one. But since this is about the National Science Council's report, there's something that needs to be said about that, too, about the report itself. The National Council for Science should deal with strategic and tactical moves in science. Tactically, this daily technical, tactical, as you would like to call them was done by the National Council, which is not why the report is bad, and that is why the government rejected it, and that is why it is likely that this Assembly will reject it. However, strategic decisions, I am not defending the National Council at all, I have no intention at all, strategic decisions are political decisions and policy-type strategic decisions have not been made because the authorities had neither the will nor the interest to discuss science and to make any strategic decisions in science. The National Council could have produced documents that wouldn't represent anything if they didn't get the blessing of the current government, they didn't, and that is, they didn't do their job. In the evaluation of what is important in this country, we lack a list of priorities, we are very often here in Parliament, especially in the executive government in some kind of grip. We're being pressured by neighbors, Europe, the IMF, this one and then we're doing priorities by patching up holes that are bigger through which more water leaks we patch up, then the second one, then the third one. Of course there's no strategy and development. It is bad to deal with especially one activity, from which all of us at least say for this and other speakers we expect to make this country a paradise on earth. This way, of course he won't. The report is a success story. There is a 2010 report, practically the same on the same agenda, a successful spranca that is empty. The National Council is the Council of the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Parliament sets him up and submits a report to him. So far as I've seen it in practice, and for a long time I've watched that council was actually one of the authorities of the ministry and one of the authorities. And without the Ministry and the authorities, he dared not do anything. That's why the strategic moves didn't move because the government didn't move them. One of the tasks of the National Council is to improve science. And how will poor science improve when there's no money for it? Let's be honest. What in Croatian science is treated as a donation, a project, a subsidy because I don't know which way it's already called are actually funny figures. These are figures that, in some kind of organisation of decent scientific work that could be expected to result, would be spent on secondary material costs. So, the cleaning and the paper. Things can't be done like that. If this state thinks there's no money for scientific work, that they won't even have it soon because the Minister of Finance and a representative of the government says it's going to be worse a year, and in 2013, it might recover a little bit, but in 2012, it'll tell us it'll be even worse. So if that's the situation, let's say so. Okay. We don't have money for science, we're not actually going to play science funding in this way, we're going to give people who are in that kind of status or come into such dinar status, a couple of kunas, excuse me, so they can keep in touch with the world so they don't get lost in our Balkan impasses. So that's what we're going to give them the money and the point. And as far as I'm concerned... We'll deal with technology. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Maybe that's the answer. This act really doesn't lead to anything. So there's no money. That's what the National Council established. Nobody cares, and neither does the National Council, I haven't seen a single letter anywhere about what young scientists, innovators, children who have some ideas, who have even done something in life in their garages if they go under our feet anywhere else and go to the white world after trying to talk to someone here at all, let alone create something. That's one of the topics I'd expect in here, I'd expect that. These scientists, and especially those children, young people thirty and so many years who have decided on such a career, believe them they really aren't, and well I can't tell them it's not about money, they're living off money, but it's not their primary thing. I had an assistant in college, a boyfriend was both talented and smart and everything. But the pay was what it was, and he was willing to work for it as much as he could to become a professor one day, provided his lab was opened and there was equipment in that lab that he imagined. At that time, it cost 100,000 marks. 100,000 marks weren't in college. A man went to Australia. The other day I think Cambery was at the university, the other day they took him to the lab and told him that's where you'd be working. He didn't ask for a salary at all. But he asked about the lab. One of the jobs of the National Council is also the development of conditions for acquiring new knowledge, which is a strategic move. It is a strategic move that the National Council could do if it did not because, of course, the Government, the Ministry, or the Government through the law, would give general guidance but could have proposed. The entire academic community, at least the part of it that really matters and represents something in the world, is aware that the way of choice is both scientists and university teachers... that this system we inherited from Edward Cardell is still. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This system was introduced in the 1980s on occasion. The points system actually continues that parole each work is measurable, so today you publish 5 papers in the reviewed magazines abroad and you get certain conditions for a docent, and then you get 15 more for professors. 20 more and you've won for a regular professor. No one, no commission at least I haven't had a chance to see if there's a commission, maybe there is, I haven't seen them analyze those papers, not watch what they say inside. The work came out in such a magazine with such reference, was reviewed and a man was chosen. And I know from a personal example of a man chosen as a professor with works on the Bihac, Zenica, Tuzla. Reviewed magazines. It's all by the book. All points match. But such a choice of commissions, parent committees and selection expert committees are perfectly unnecessary in this situation. It can make a secretary, add up the points. Now, the objection can, of course, be so that you suggest that there be some kind of an end to objectivity and subjective approach. Well, I remember the time, I was in college when that subjective approach worked, so three respected teachers chose the fourth. One colleague was told by a colleague while the three of us are on the council in front of 120 people, while the three of us are alive here you will never become a professor. And she didn't become a teacher, and she worked in all sorts of places. They estimated that these works weren't worth it, that there was a scientific spine, so it was called for a variety of reasons and they didn't go through. Because they had their reputation, which was a living reputation behind it. There's less and less courage in the academic community. The more under the influence of politics, the less courage it is. And it came to me to seem worrying levels. In the new Law that is here, a new scientific calling has been launched – a scientific advisor in secret calling. No one has rebelled against it. What does that actually represent? I mean, why is this new science calling made up? So that a group of people could stay in a slightly lower position and that this stratification could be done better in one institution. It's actually sad. How valuable these criteria are to the fact that 80% of extraordinary professors become regular professors, which by normal some natural logic is actually impossible. But there it is. It happens because of the policy of unhappiness and lack of courage. One of the tasks, i.e. the bodies of this National Council, is also the area council. The district councils which determine the reviewers who decide in the process of evaluating the university and the programs at the universities because it is not worth it. How could an acquittal be given to an institution called the Media University? It's not a university, at all. There's a higher school if it's – I don't know. And this Media University, the company that founded it, founded a daughter company, passed a license on to that company's daughter and sold that miracle, that papasia for 7 million kuna to a local self-government unit in Croatia. And now it's going to work out there as a Media University. And they say now they're going to start a Food Technology Study. It's completely messed up, and it's got nothing to do with common sense. But no one, not from this Council, not from the Higher Education Council, not from the Ministry, not from the B. Such perversions happen that should not happen in normal high school education. I believe they don't even happen. But one more general question, in the list of network institutions here is one university. I suppose it meets the formal conditions to become a scientific institution. However, all the universities in Croatia, if you look at English names, are today called the University of Plain Science. So, universities of applied science, about. Who authorized it? Because someone asked the National Science Council that that's how it can go around the world? It seems to me he's doing whatever he wants, and the result, of course, is none. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19366	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. The first reported by Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19367	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleague Buljanic. Well, you've been saying all this nicely and well. I've come this way to the professor, I know what it means, there's a lot to talk about, but to say something that you've said -- there's no money, so the lady also said there's no money, we all say today -- there's no money and it all ends up on that finding as if there's no one left, no will, no inspiration, no aggression to say -- there's money, let's find them for something and so on. I say there's money. This is my replica. For associations, we give, say, 2 billion kunas. Now, associations are necessary, I claim some unnecessary, some do good, some do nothing. They're all like this and they're all like that. I don't want to argue with associations, but it takes about two billion. Then a fellow academic claims 170 minus 110 billion, that doesn't matter at all. Because it's, they're down. The question is whether Croatia, my replica, has the brains and the will, is this Government, so this is not a selective now criticism on this left hand side or this current government, nor have associations been formed, nor has this system been created in the last nine months. We generally talk, it will follow us for the next 10 years or not to say 20 years. What do we want in Croatia? We and the money have only a question of this Parliament and the Croatian people in which to channel it. I say, let's say, it could reach into the money for associations with, say, 500 million kuna and give it to science. And what would happen? Happy birthday! Nothing bad would happen on this side, and this one would do a lot of good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19368	Thank you, too. We have a response to the replica. Nikola Vuljanić, come in!
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19369	It is absolutely certain that there is money, and that is why I said at the last point that this discussion should continue at the discussion on the Budget. I'm sure there's money, money has to be for this sort of thing. But all governments so far, especially the HDZ government, have been extremely anti-intellectual. And if it was saved, first it was saved – cut off teachers and teachers, cut off universities, cut off science, cut off health! And everything else is our voters. Well, we're not gonna cut them. And that's the consequence of this.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19370	Thank you. Next replica of Walter Boluncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19371	I would have answered the same thing again as before. Namely, by giving negative examples and presenting it as if it were, as if it were exclusively about science in this way is not right. When you said before no one was looking at it, it wasn't like that. The report shall indicate the works. I don't know what college I'm at, I'm in math, they're seriously watched there, and the list of magazines that were put up for selection if the strong magazines they have a very strict review procedure. Some of the works that are published are less than 5%. The other thing is what you cited for selecting counsellors in a permanent calling. It's explained in future law, but we can't know. But it's an idea to combine it with calling a regular professor in a permanent calling, but the point is that after that, the same thing is being published. And now with fast elections you can get to the level after 15 years you don't have to do anything else, you have a constant calling. And by the way, what you said... It exists in Germany and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But if you didn't... For the past year, the university has been called polytechnics, polytechnics, and these names are also difficult to talk about because in English, polytechnics mean professional school, and in Italy or France polytechnics means extremely strong technical university... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the names are completely meaningless. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Although I would agree here with the fact that many high schools, whether they are public or private, are advertised as colleges, and they are not. They're not a university, they're a professional study so it stands.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19372	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19373	Yeah, I agree with this other part, of course. That's true. Names don't matter, content matters. But the show in the world's gonna be weird. People introduce themselves out there for something they're not because it's bad. These universities in Croatia were really called polytechnics, polytechnics of this or that and that's ok. And this, this isn't okay. As far as the election is concerned, mathematicians are otherwise a strange sort and, of course, the criteria of mathematicians are different than elsewhere. But this election formalisation system is something that has definitely damaged Croatia's higher education. It's possible to conduct a procedure so no one can look at what this man really wrote, which is under those headings. Is that copy paste or something? It's possible to carry him out like that. In a good number of places, that's how it's done. I don't say it everywhere, of course, but that's how it's done in a good number of places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19374	Thank you, too. The next one is for discussion on behalf of the HDSSB Representatives' Club Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19375	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Report on the work of the National Council for Science of the Republic of Croatia for 2011. National Council for the Science of the Republic of Croatia. How's that? I'd say bitter, it sounds bitter. Em's national. Em's for science. But in my discussion of this report, I will begin at the end. So, from page 54, and the Council contains 56 pages in which it writes, at the bottom of the page it writes. Obstructions to more strongly involve scientists in solving concrete problems in the Republic of Croatia. This is what Mr Vuljanić says to include also politicians, including science in the economy, in solving problems in the economy, in the progress of the economy etc. So he says like this. So these obstacles, and one of the main ones is exactly what it writes, which is, therefore, over the weaker ones, and also over the Croatian people, are carried out operations of psychological warfare in which the individual is subject to the phenomenon in psychology known as trained helplessness. This phenomenon combined with the dispersal of national pride deprives the single ability and will to reflect on the future of the community to which it belongs. This is what Mr. Marasovic says is happening, to spit on ourselves, to say that there is no money, how helpless we are, etc. This sense of helplessness or what the learned helplessness says has ruled the Croatian society and the Croatian people. I'm asking for peace in HDZ over there! Therefore, their awareness of the citizens has been modified so that their mind-thinking about the community puts them in a different plan. This is what Ivo Andric Nobel Prize winner said that citizens are beginning to think abstractly, completely beyond all contexts of sovereignty. If it's a bad home administration, think of the government or if the state has a foreign administration. I don't know what to say about what's going on here. But what's called learned helplessness is obviously in action. It's also visible from the debates here today. We can't, there's no money, there's nothing we can do, etc. And then the constant repetition that there are only 7, 7 and a half of highly educated people in Croatia, so that is why Croatia is scientifically and in every other way poor and helpless and not so. Furthermore, when it comes to scientists, scientific degrees or careers of scientists, another obstacle or obstacle to promoting scientific titles is so called. Cytomania. The system of advances in scientific titles is based solely or almost exclusively on scentometric indicators, and the inventions, innovations and patents are ignored. You yourself are witnesses, Mr. Reiner, especially you, that when we read our medical journals that the list of literature and quotes is bigger than the article itself or the scientific paper itself, it's longer, it's spatially larger and longer. And that's also what the citatomony is, so it's an evaluation. Those who deal with inventions and innovations are trying to penetrate this and the economic sector, in the Association of Employers, to advance along with scientific exceptions, they can hardly, much harder to advance in scientific terms. These are the obstacles that plague the Croatian state and the Croatian people. And especially the first one where we're constantly being subdued by our thought that we can't do anything, that we're left behind, that we only have 7.5% highly educated, etc. And it's not like that! Now we're just going to go to a report that's actually a report for five months' work in 2011. Because the National Council only acted for technical reasons, because the Croatian Parliament which is the founder or founder of this National Council for 6 months did not adopt a Decision on the resolution of one of the members of the National Council and the appointment of others. Is the National Council wrong about that? Is this our fault here? Who is to blame for the fact that the National Council has been obstructed in its work since May until the end of October, full of 6, 7 months? Let's take a little nap with the ashes, especially those who were here in the last meeting and led the Parliament. The tasks of the National Council have already been counted by my predecessors as the Network of Public and Scientific Organizations, the announcement of scientific centres of excellence, scientific and technological parks. Here when I see this first point of the Network of Public and Scientific Organizations then in this, here it is on page 22, 23, 24, the 25th proposal of the Network of Public Scientific Organizations in the Republic of Croatia. That network has a total list of public high schools from 1 to 90. I must mention again when it comes to public high schools what we in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem are deeply resented, although it is not the National Council that is going to be the trigger for something that would be crucial in this sense for the Network of Public Higher Schools, which is another university in Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem. So there is only the University of Osijek, and in the sea part of Croatia here we know that we have the University of Pula, Rijeka, Zadar, Split and Dubrovnik. The continental part of Croatia as they like to say it now in government they now call it the statistical continental region, except for Zagreb which is a clear university pair of exellance for the whole of Croatia our pride and dika has only the University of Osijek. Are we in Slavonia intellectual and scientific something lagging behind, perhaps? Does anyone have any idea there should be another university for millions of people in Slavonia? Do you have any idea that Slavonia and Slavonski Brod are therefore more difficult and good in Bosnia and Herzegovina's Posavina, so more than that of the millions of people of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem? It's our students going to study in Oresje, Brcko, Banja Luka, Bihać to gain the title of highly educated. What's it called? Level seven or something, I don't know anymore. Me when I was tall and tall, and now it's a little different from the bologna. And one more thing, I can see that in that list of public higher schools there is no university except for one in the 61st section of the University of Rijeka, and it's listed, classified in public higher schools, and it's a university. And the high schools we have in Croatia, they have nicked like mushrooms after the rain, not to mention in every nearly village, but about the need for it is another topic. However, the only university that is included in this list of higher universities is Veleučište in Rijeka. About the public scientific institutes that are 25 in the Republic of Croatia, I will not admire what they would say in Slavonia because they are the institutions that are numbered, which exist and which are institutions. Now, alone to say the council was what it was. It is also mentioned here by the Science Agency and as it is already called, but it is good to read those data that could be called the Score of the State, although it does not say it here, which is on the page. 49th writes: "The contribution of Croatian science to exit from the crisis." So he says that on the basis of the available data in 2000 in Croatia, 1.07% of GDP was spent on research and development, or how someone likes to tell the GDP. At the same time in 2009, only 0.84%. You'd say it's not some big cut, so that's 0.017%. However, when observed or compared not to say by foreign compromises, for example. With Slovenia next door, then we see that this amount is 4 times smaller. It says Croatia invested $159 per capita in research and development in 2007. At the same time in the same year, Slovenia invested $464.5 per capita. During the same period, 1.85% of GDP is spent in the 27 EU member states for research and development. We had 1.07% in 2000, and now 0.017% is twice as much. When I say 27 EU countries, then there are both Romania and Bulgaria and all those countries of the coastal countries that are joined a little later on by the EU. It is not England, France, Germany and Italy, so on that average there are also these countries that we think about as we think about let's say standard already in our heads, right, Romania, Bulgaria, Hungary, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, etc. That's why it's hard to say as ad hoc as the first club to discuss, we're not for this report. Stupid, great. In this Assembly and the election of members of the council, the National Council for Science of the Republic of Croatia obviously depends and is burdened by the weight of political relations within the Republic of Croatia. So don't be sad about this relationship. It's what it is. It turns out that actually the composition of the National Council for Science of the Republic of Croatia is a political function, with one authority comes with another gone. Or it's a deal, so that's how many council members there should be seven of ours and five of yours. That's why the HDSB club doesn't even think about how it's going to vote for this report. We're more concerned about what I said at the beginning of my speech. But that's why I can say that I have both in fact and that I know personally, and that every one of you many of us should say small people and without scientific titles that have terrible innovation potentials, that can't fit from citatoms into our science and apply in our economy. Starting with Mr. Jakobovic in Slavonski Brod, which already produces tractors or machines that mix water with conventional fuel and saves 30% of fossil fuel to a number of others. However, they cannot break through from the citatoms and from others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19376	Thank you, time. We have two replicas. First responds Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19377	Dear Mr. Vice President, I actually wanted to report about what Honorable Representative Boro Grubisic was talking about cytotomania, i.e. I would say a dictatorship of centtometry. True, it has become, unfortunately, an almost exclusive criterion for us. It exists, it's not our invention, it exists in all actually environments far more developed than we are. However, unlike these environments where the centimetric evaluation of individuals in scientific work is just one of the segments in no way, perhaps even crucial, the values in us have been imposed as absolute, and that is simply because I dare to say it openly, what is the point of being clear and responsibly said by this scientist is good, this is a bit less valid, this scientific paper is a bit less than a quote, and this is less good. So, simply responsibility for your position is clearly expressed and always a danger or an impression of danger that if a man does so, he will be accused of favoring someone or I don't know, don't give God corruption or something like that. And people then, in fact, fearing to express their position clearly even though he is unofficially well known, usually in microcentres, and it's clear exactly how difficult he is as a scientist or not, we don't always dare say that, but we hide behind the cover of scentometry, the number of papers, the intact of the factors in which he was published, etc. And that's unfortunately our reality. How do you reach her? I believe the National Council will also contribute to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19378	Thank you, too. We have a reply to the replica, Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19379	Thank you very much. A fellow Reiner, namely, he likes master's likes. in which only one author was quoted in the literature. Here, for example. in a master's work written at a time when I think HDZ was also in power, etc., 60 pages of the late Boris Kandare were prescribed. But you didn't do anything about it but it went out of date, did you? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19380	Thank you, too. And another replica, Walter Boluncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19381	I'd like to look back at the part where you said it's also in the list of public institutions... As far as I can tell, it's not exactly like that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here you have under point 5. High School of Economics in Križevci, you have Zagreb Health University, Veleučište in Rijeka, Technical University in Zagreb and Veleučište in Karlovac, so the higher schools have more. It's not just Rijeka, so on that side. However, it is also a fact that according to the laws of how large, last, smaller these four universities you have listed, three actually Zadar, Pula see certain and inequality in relation to them while the universities, say Osijek and Rijeka, can have departments that are treated specifically as legal persons in the list. For example, Zadar, Dubrovnik and Pula are only treated as individuals, which is an inequality towards these universities. You should either be all the same or all the same. I guess, I mean, I'm happy now that there's at least one university, but there's more public speaking plus private because they're more or less, except for this one in Dubrovnik that I don't think came back to life at all. Everything else is essentially professional, or high school, public universities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19382	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Comrade Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19383	Thank you for your help, but you have already said High School in the Križevci as in the first sentence. If it's high, it's in college. So, yes, yes. We have the universities I was talking about. If they're tall, they belong there, right? As for you reaffirmed what I actually said, which is precisely a lack of hearing for high schools or universities in Slavonia, Srijem and Baranja.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19384	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Walter Boluncic, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19385	Thank you. So here I was just on an individual high, now generic name. No more higher schools or higher schools, but different as professional and university schools, but good. Whatever. It's obviously high economics not college, I guess. So I wanted to look back on today where you're talking from these two points about the position of science. Somehow, we all revolve around exes a year ago or current changes to the laws that have been withdrawn from, therefore, the procedure. And in some ways it seems that our science is not good or that it has anomalies and that it's always someone else's fault. I still think that our science is pretty good because people outside of Croatia are educated, in principle, by the basic part because for any later scientific research at some age it is crucial that which education was acquired at the university or later on in the doctorate. So I'm still at the point that organization and funding is the part where the most suffers, so our science, and of course students in higher education, although it's almost always the same in some way when it comes to science, automatically attaches it to higher education even though it's not the same. We have two councils now, according to a proposal for a new law, there should be one. Yet it is somewhat logical procedure because most of the scientific work regardless of public institutes... in universities and universities in some way these two, meaning higher education and science are tied up, and they are even bound by the fact that through higher education students must also be led to science. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In that section, the student population should be considered in these parts. The part that, therefore, I think is the community from... It's the academy's fault that we have an uninterrupted excuse to wait for some strategy that someone has to bring. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] She's working now. However, if we look at scientists, university professors are the most educated part of society, and that part of society should have come through a large number of years ago with a proposal for a strategy, not only for the development of higher education and science but also for the development of the state. This way it turns out to be a bad situation, but they don't want any changes to be made so I don't think that in this part of the academic community can be removed from responsibility for the adoption of the strategy. It needs to bring a strategy for itself plus a strategy for the state, not to expect someone else to bring it. Furthermore, since the comments made earlier on the report are essentially in this. So, the report is about technical matters, not some strategy that's been done. If there were no election of members for seven months, there were five. That means almost half a year we've had. I'd like to tie myself up, a little while back when we're talking about this list of high schools and some debates that were before. It is definitely necessary to pool the funds and try to find a strategic way of using these resources at the state level. However, I am afraid, in one remark I felt it on one emphasis on centralised how to decide. The academic community is very sensitive to that. And I think it's right, because sometimes the part that we lack, and that's very short of integration into science within the very university that I don't speak between anymore. However, if only the laws are expected to pass something, then integration with integration has nothing to do with integration, but it becomes one centralisation where everything that would be extremely bad is decided in one place. I support that universities, universities, or any level of education can be opened outside these large centres with the satisfaction of course of basic criteria. As we need universities, we also need universities, and I think that with one law that is already more or less finished and it seems to me to be sent to the Assembly, which is the HKO - Croatian qualification framework, however, it will specify some levels and structures and which must be obtained through the completion of a certain level of education and where it is possible for horizontal, or even more important vertical flow. I hope the report, science will be better. I also hope that the resources that will be given to science will be greater. But once again, I think there should be a law, a change of some facts that essentially points to some irregularities that occurred during the course. Here I agree with the previous, many of them, speakers in the debate who said it was from the election to the calling, to the work, etc. various anomalies. I think it just takes one law, one organization that will be able to attract those funds. Secondly, insisting on science exclusively and neglecting higher education, by the way, just to point out that almost always every bill that comes must be returned with one technical error that is evident to everyone, which is that this proposal is also about the music academy and art, etc. So let's not forget that part. I also agree with some speakers who say that the measurement in the number of articles published is somewhat favourable to private and technical sciences, so in the proposals of the new law and in the work of science that I say is not only about sciences but also about art, we should take into account the differences between individual sciences, between individual universities and individual branches because, apart from science and economic ties, what I hope will help us in economic recovery, this cultural education is very important to us, social and particularly humanist universities that are almost reduced to this crisis, I will not say very much on their knees, but it is not far from that. So in the discussion of science, we should not even discuss only that a center of excellence must be determined, etc. We need to raise some of our average education to a higher level. Because of the students who finish a few percent will just stay away from the science system, it's the other students who go to work. These people will therefore work in certain places and they must be quality and highly educated to help in this development. And another fact which therefore applies to, I know it may not be so tied up, but it's a debate on another topic, which is the position of students. We've had opportunities to see different riots of theirs where some colleges really give me unreasonablely high tuitions, justifiable, unwarranted. The ball is transferred from the ministry to colleges, universities, Senates, etc. I think there's a very important point that young people who are in a very difficult position today are probably unemployed parents, they have to work, they have to finish schooling. By joining the EU we will simply be in some way the student populations of other countries will simply cover our market if we fail to motivate ours. Once again, I advocate that this science and changes of organisation come as soon as possible so that the limited resources can be as much involved in the development of the economy as possible. I also agree that in the reports that have been and where related to parent committees which are progress reports exclusively on the number of works that it is wrong, that this must be one criterion that is the whole world-wide criterion, as the publicish or perrish would say, but other conditions must also be taken. I hope that this law will come as soon as possible and that it will change something in science after all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19386	Thank you, too. This is what we're done with the reports. Mrs. Vehovec, here's a quick final.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19387	I thank you for all the comments and suggestions you've given. I followed them closely, and everything that is very important for our body's operation under the current law I have noted. The length of this debate convinced me that this topic is important for the Croatian Parliament. I was really convinced that the debate would be very short, but the debate showed all the dubiosis and all the problems that are really big, deep, complex and related to higher education and I can only repeat that in the good communication that we have with the Ministry of Science and I hope for better communication with the Committee on Science, Education and Culture of the Croatian Parliament that we will have a better report for 2012. Although, I only have four months in this year to correct one and two and three years that you have actually discussed as years in which there has been no particularly strong shift. So I'll do whatever I can to do by the end of this calendar year and start next to re-change the members of the National Science Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19388	Thank you, too. I thank Mrs. Vehovec, president of the National Science Council. This is what we're done with. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19389	Report on the work of the National Council for Science of the Republic of Croatia for 2011. The debate on the report is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The report on the work of the National Council for Science of the Republic of Croatia for 2011 is not accepted, given that during 2011, the Council was not concerned with strategic but technical issues, noting that due to the untimely election of its members it was partially prevented in its work". By raising our hands, may we please state who is to suggest a conclusion? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you. I find that the conclusion has been accepted by most 90 votes for, 3 against, and 31 abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19390	We move on to - Annual report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2011 The report is submitted by the Management Board of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development under Article 16. Law on the National Foundation for Civil Society Development. You've received the material into the boxes. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. We have Mrs. Cvetana Plavša Matic, chairman of the Management Board. Would you like an introduction? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19391	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, distinguished MPs and distinguished MPs. I am glad that for the eighth time I can present the Annual Work Report of the National Foundation, specifically for 2011. The specificity of this report is that every two years we carry out a long-term research on the state of development of civil society in Croatia, and some of these specificities and results of this research, which, on a sample of 651 associations, have also shown that the continuity of development, but also the problems that exist between civil society organisations, is related to what we identified two years ago. What the National Foundation managed to do last year is, of course, a constant effort to improve the forms of support that we provide to civil society organisations aimed at democratisation of society and the development of civil society itself and empowering citizens in these processes. The main source of the National Foundation's income is part of the revenue from gambling. In the last year, it was the amount of 36 million kuna, of which 90% were focused on financial forms of support to civil society organisations for over 300 different projects and programmes that we funded. And what is particularly important is that support actually went to all the counties in the Republic of Croatia. So, there was no case that any of the county was not covered with these forms of support. Supports granted come from those small support for citizens' initiatives at local level to joint projects where we help more developed organisations help those who have not yet reached this stage of development and motivate in fact the integration of at least 5 organizations from different counties in the Republic of Croatia to avoid metropolising that unfortunately is the presence of a civil society organisation in Croatia. We also finance projects for the development of local communities, institutional support for civil society organisations, as well as the transfer of knowledge acquired among our organisations to the international community. For the fourth year we have 2 pillars of infrastructure to support the development of civil society. One is related to the unification of regional development, where thanks to regional networks we allow associations and civil initiatives that are not designed to be better quality in their activities, to be able to do quality business and manage their organisations, to be able to prepare for projects. So we give them some kind of knowledge or know how. On the other hand, we have a second pillar that is related to a decentralised model. So it was clear from the beginning that the support of a development society cannot be monopolized in one of the National Foundations. For the fourth year we've been working with four regional foundations that we're actually transferring some of the funds that we have, which help small initiatives in local communities, so where the problems really are, we put down the money to be there, right? What is important is that last year the National Foundation passed the accreditation process for EU funds, and we are glad that here we are now 16 August from Brussels confirmed that we have passed all these degrees of audits that were with us, that we are now qualified and that we can participate in the distribution of funds from European funds that will be allocated to civil society organisations. And now still for the IPA, but very soon from next year and for the European Social Fund. We are particularly proud that we were the first public institution to have an ISO quality of business certificate in this segment to grant financial support to civil society organisations, and this certificate has been granted to us internationally in the past year and we have started the important processes of involving citizens in the development of local communities and investing in their knowledge and abilities for this much more demanding environment that we will enter when we enter the EU. Here, that's briefly all I wanted to share with you, and very detailedly it's all presented in our report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19392	Thank you, too. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Party Club, Nansi Tyreli. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19393	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the chairman of the board of directors. As far as this Annual Report is concerned, it is like such a complex, beautiful and shaped and contenty and certainly. You said in the opening statement a brief explanation of what everything in it says, I would certainly focus only on some segments. The results of research into the foundation for assessing the state of development of the civil society organisation in Croatia show some interestingness. To begin with, what I would particularly point out is that a third of the sample associations simply were not able to survey them because of inadequate data, i.e. they had no contact information or had no time to participate in the research. This is certainly something that we should be concerned about because if these associations are doing business and if they are working, then they should certainly be available. Furthermore, it is interesting that each ten association does not currently implement any project, two-thirds of the associations publicly publish annual financial reports and associations as such allegations that they are easier to co-operate with local media than with national media. Furthermore, the question arises as to how the foundation achieves one of its basic objectives, which is to increase the influence of civil society in the process of adopting various forms of public policy. Unfortunately, there's no record of that in this report. Despite the fact that the debate on reports from all those earlier years highlighted the need to work towards equalisation and some regional equality of support for regional differences, as you yourself stated in the allocation of funds, are still as significant as that. So there's this metropolision that we all agree on. The most approved support from this report is in the City of Zagreb with a total amount of nearly 11 million kuna. This is certainly one of the questions to which we should certainly find an answer which is why. Is the reason why more registered associations in the City of Zagreb, is the reason why these associations are more engaged or maybe even the reason, and I think it is, not enough to invest in the knowledge of members of the associations located outside Zagreb who are marginalized as such in one part of the knowledge I will say so. We see a contest on the Internet, associations can apply, however, the question is how many associations outside of Zagreb are unable to attend just all seminars, all educations in the development of human potentials and similar to that of the foundation as such organised and other civil society organisations in Croatia. As far as they are prepared, therefore, quality appears in certain competitions and, as such, to create a certain quality program that would meet certain conditions. In 2006, we had 29572 associations in the Republic of Croatia with 2766 projects and singled out 321 billion kunas. 2 years later 36212 associations 6350 projects and about 624 billion kunas. 2010. 40300 associations with 5611 projects and 528 billion kuna, with an average of 9 associations in the Republic of Croatia per 1,000 inhabitants. The most common form of monitoring spent all these billions, i.e. all these allocations to associations by project or by some programme activity, is internal evaluation. Standardisation of project monitoring and the impact of projects or of this programme which would be measurable, defined, expected or perhaps only desirable, and in this context and standardised unfortunately has never been implemented. External evaluation, surveillance and control is more unfortunately rare than practice and this applies to all civil society associations. Project financing is mostly short-term, segmented and fragmented. Sometimes depending too much perhaps on the trends imposed on the outside rather than on our needs on the ground or needs in those units of local and regional self-government. There are too many European projects. I think we might be doing that part right now, so maybe we should think about it. I think we have quite understood what Europe means, in which way we can coordinate with Europe as a future member, in which way we can extract funds from European funds, especially from the Social Fund. But here, again, we are going back to that question that maybe we should invest more in that human capital, that is, intellectual capital. So, give these people on the ground some new and different knowledge. The definition of general good in the Republic of Croatia is not defined by any regulation or other act which determines or could establish some kind of public policy related to civil society organisations, and can then often ask the question of what is the benefit, or what new value that brings to civil society's well-being. So far, there has been no difference between civil society organisations acting for this overall good exclusively with the aim of meeting the needs of their members, nor has civil society in its efforts demonstrated the need for itself to make such a distinction. I appeal to the adoption as soon as possible of a new Law on Associations, which would indeed separate associations that act for general good from those technical associations. Unfortunately, we have also seen various activities of the associations, and for example, youth associations are organized, that is, the Football School Association, according to which a certain football club has been blocked by a jury account paying its money only higher than that that football club with that name is registered with certain competitions, with certain funds, and then ultimately parents continue to pay for transportation for these young football players and all their needs. So I think we should keep an account here and we should finally have some kind of control over such associations. It is also necessary to revise the implementation of certain support. In the report, we read that 27 regular programming and financial evaluations of associations were carried out, but in those associations that were granted multi-year institutional support, which is fine. But I wonder what about the revision of those one-time donations of its 10,000 kunas, 20,000, 50 or more thousand kunas. So, for a particular project that has been reported as such, age certain funds. Whether or not it was controlled and how these funds were spent. And it's not enough for a time just to send a certain association, or civil society organisation, a subsequent report that says nicely what the funds have been spent on. Of course, I believe that more frequent and financial analysis would be needed here, and that is not so much so that it may be controlled or said that the associations are non-transparently spending money, but perhaps more so that these members of the association, i.e. the management of these associations, are really taught that using pre-accession funds, the justification of all the funds spent will be everywhere and where, must be more transparent and simply force them to do so, or perhaps not even force them, but I will say that we will learn how to be up-to-date and how much it is necessary to be detailed in every step in implementing this particular project. There's a lot of addresses to report to the competition. I've already mentioned it, and the same projects are getting funding from more sources for the same project, and I think maybe that part of it should kind of think about it, so here's when it comes to reading the new Associations Act that maybe we can pay a little attention to that, because some people really can't report on anything or can't get funding from any of the tenders, while others are using and duplicating funds for the same project. Those people who volunteer in various associations, civil society organisations for a reason, I think they've become sensitive to some of the situations that are happening on our civil society scene. To keep these volunteers from giving themselves, their time, their knowledge, I think that we must finally separate those who work and those who create this new, inexplicable value for a wider community than those who have made associations because of certain individuals, some of their personal interests and here they are doing certain single projects, and unfortunately in most cases only for their own personal promotions. The Republic of Croatia will become 28 members of the European Union next year, additional financial opportunities will be opened for civil society organisation and quality investment programmes in the knowledge and ability of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia should certainly be developed, as well as new models that would be willing to contribute to the new values of civil society and, as such, join the local community. I think then we're really on the verge of using all the resources and all the tools that we can use to enable them to do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19394	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Ante Babic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19395	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleague Tyrelli. You were actually talking about metropolising national trust funds and maybe the inability of associations from local level to make quality programs. But that's not true. Associations from Split-Dalmatia County have had as many as 92 applications, and 27 projects have been approved. I wouldn't want... [[You can't hear the speaker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19396	Thank you, too. We have a reply to the replica, Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19397	Yeah, buddy, I was just talking about it, but then I asked a question just like that. If someone reported 90 or 100 projects, and they were granted 20 projects, then the question is, what's wrong with these projects? Whether projects are well-designed, whether projects can compete as such in these scheduled competitions, or perhaps the problem is that the funds are centralized, and the project is good. So, we should take care of that, and that's why I said that we should make some standards of good or bad so that we have a qualification then, and that we know how many points I have to collect on this project in order to here at all, so figuratively, to express how much I should be able to collect points in order to go through this project later on, or whether I'm from one county or another county.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19398	Thank you. We're continuing the debate on behalf of the clubs. In front of SDP Damir Mateljan. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19399	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, President of the Management Board, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. When we talk about civil society associations, it is important to say that those for the community they operate, regardless of the size of the community in which they always work, enrich the social life of the community, or give added value. Civil society organisations have the support of NGOs, which should essentially mean non-partisan. About today's Croatian society when each and every one of the most banal events, when almost every single one and every trivial solution is viewed through the prism of politics, have organisations that are supersede, the only goal of which is to improve a particular group of society regardless of the political color. Such organisations make an excellent adjustment to the public sector’s public sector, i.e. an excellent correction. The National Civil Society Foundation is a roof organisation at national level that not only coordinates civil society associations, not only for a number of years but also represents the most important domestic donor whose small and medium-sized support in terms of 13 to 400,000 kunas represents the key national leverage of civil society development, but the National Foundation is an irreplaceable tool for the sustainability of small and medium-sized associations, especially those in rural communities such as the pensioners' associations, such as youth associations and other associations whose capacities are unfortunately not at the level of the use of various EU funds at their disposal. Without such systematic and essential support from the National Foundation, which strengthens not only the financial but human capacities of associations, the civil society system in the Republic of Croatia would completely collapse. This fact, i.e. this possibility of losing the entire public or the entire civil sector, is not even harmless. The confirmation of this is also the influence that civil society has today in the Republic of Croatia. Today, civil society associations in Croatia are the best, most expedient users of EU funds. The use of EU funds at the disposal of civil society associations is almost 100%, and in this, the fact should also be seen by state institutions, the whole public sector, and in particular local self-government units. Civil society organisations carry out a huge part of social services work without which the work of social services would be unimaginable or at least significantly unskilled by not using the money of local budgets or burdening the state budget as a whole to the greatest extent possible. So it is quite clear to me that the public sector in the Republic of Croatia is very much benefiting from civil sector services as a partner in solving the problems of different groups of Croatian societies, and such partnership and such a role of the civil sector are recognised by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, as evidenced by the research carried out with the technical assistance and civil society organisation of which 80% of Croatian citizens recognise what these are civil society associations, and 60% of Croatian citizens have an extremely positive view of the work of civil society associations. Dear colleagues and colleagues imagine that our work in this House is perceived in this way, but it is now of course another topic. In order for civil society associations to be able to do this part of the work, they of course need financial assistance, co-financing of their work to carry out their activities and at national level. And that support should be between 10 and 50%, or 30% on average. And this particular part of the financial cake is largely covered by the National Foundation for Civil Society Development. The following facts are also visible in this report that we are discussing today: The National Foundation is not only a donor providing concrete financial resources for the work and projects of civil society associations but the National Foundation is developing a whole range of support systems for civil society development through media programmes, volunteering, international cooperation, strengthening the capacity of civil society and research projects. The National Foundation and during this reporting period, therefore in 2011, allowed 512 persons to be employed in associations in the Republic of Croatia and 6875 volunteers and volunteers who provide a wide range of social services to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. As one of the most important successes of the National Foundation, I would point out, and this is also pointed out by the President-in-Office, is the entry into the accreditation process as an implementing body for the EU Structural Funds, more specifically the implementation of the European Social Fund in the Republic of Croatia. I believe this is a huge success of the National Foundation, which has thus proved itself to be an institution capable of almost implementing this extremely important EU Fund. In 2011, unfortunately, the last year in which the National Foundation implemented support for new networks, so-called Democratisation of topic B, i.e. small support for democratisation of topic C. In my opinion, this is extremely important support, which is unfortunately not foreseen in 2012 and the need for them has not been reduced at all in 2012. In particular, these support is important for the development of the democratisation process in small, rural areas where these support was based, i.e. the development of the specific capacities of local public sector institutions. Perhaps the best example is how important these support is those two most exhibited media examples this summer, which is the migration of the Roma family to Skabrnj, or the integration of Roma in preschool in Međimurje, where it is precisely these support that is used to educate the public sector and citizens in these microcentres in order to achieve democratic solutions and to avoid creating such problems. The conclusion is therefore that the most qualitative contribution to the development of civil society The National Foundation gives its institutional support and is one of the few institutions in the Republic of Croatia. The National Foundation is also one of the few state institutions that promotes social entrepreneurship. And finally, of course, this report is comprehensive, this report is really exhaustive and quality, therefore for these reasons and for all the other reasons that I have counted in this short debate, the SDP Club will support this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19400	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HSU Vishni Fortuna Club. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19401	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable President of the Management Board, the Honorable colleagues and colleagues. I would say first in the introduction that the development of civil society and the non-governmental sector is important and important to every state and every society. I always say that our associations are actually extended hands of every administration, every state institution in which they work voluntarily, most volunteering. And on this occasion, I thank all volunteers in our Croatia for their hard work through all the associations in which they participate. That is why the National Foundation for Civil Society Development, which has been working for many years, is one of the most important factors in this single coverage network, so that everything that I have said in the introduction is even better, better and more meaningful. Every year the report delivers its report which, here I am this year for the first time, this report is really comprehensive, quality, methodologically excellent with pictures and everything. Therefore, I commend the making of this kind of report at all. And about this Annual report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development in 2011 as well as in all previous years, in a simple and summarised way, gives an overview of all the smaller and greater achievements of many people working together in civil society organisations on positive social changes in order to act for the general good, democratisation and development of Croatian society. In 2011, the National Foundation also influenced the social change and development of civil society in our country through the systematicity and diversity of its forms of support. And this from the financing of short-term civil initiatives addressing problems in the community through projects that contribute to the democratisation and development of civil society, then promotes and strengthens civil society organisations as high-quality and reliable public service providers at local and regional level. Furthermore, stronger institutional and organisational development of associations. It enables links between civil society organisations. Then rewards children and youth for volunteering, and units of local and regional (regional) self-government for examples of good practice in the development of participating democracy. The Foundation supports research projects in the development of civil society, opening up public space through non-profit media projects. Furthermore, it supports international co-operation and development assistance provided by civil society organisations. Furthermore, it contributes to the transfer of knowledge and experience from Croatia to the International Community, equates regional development of civil society in the Republic of Croatia, and opens channels of direct influence of civil society organisations from Croatia on the adoption of public policies at European level through INPACT offices in Brussels and supports programmes introduced by civil society organisations in the quality action system. By launching development initiatives during the recession and crisis, the National Foundation has introduced an additional factor of stability into the sustainability of civil society organisations through two specialised programmes, Europe plus for good, and continued the trend of supporting civil society employment. In this way, thanks to the investments of the National Foundation in the field of civil society organisations, employment, i.e. working relationship for a total of 512 persons, i.e. the inclusion of 6785 volunteers and volunteers. Either my colleague got confused a little while ago or I got confused because the little singer here was made. I don't know whose it is, but it's the fact that over 6700 volunteers and volunteers are employed. The investments of the National Foundation in projects and sustainability of civil society organisations had multiple meanings in 2011, and one of the most important is that the supported organisations managed to attract four times more funds from the European Union and other international funds from the amount invested by the National Foundation itself. Furthermore, the National Foundation has provided support not only for more successful civil society organisations, but through development programmes it invests in civil society in a long term to prepare quality for a new financial framework with more development opportunities through the use of EU structural and other funds when the Republic of Croatia becomes its full member. In this context, the continuity of the implementation of the Regional Development Programme and the strengthening of the capabilities and civil society organisations at local and regional level and the decentralised model of funding for civil society development in the Republic of Croatia through which the National Foundation actually built an entire infrastructure of associated partners with which it affects equating the regional development of civil society with adequate financial support available at local and regional level. In this way, the synergies between social and financial capital in the local community has been successfully achieved, thus linking and actively contributing citizens and citizens to the sustainability of local communities development and the quality of their lives. In 2011, the National Foundation was for the fifth time re-reciprocated for the implementation of a system of quality of action according to the international standard ISO 2001-2008 in the field of managing the process of funding civil society organisations' projects. And this is precisely why it is not surprising that it is decided that the National Foundation is involved as the implementing body of the fourth component of the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance IPA Human Resources Development, and soon the European Social Fund as the largest structural fund that the Republic of Croatia will be able to use by entering full membership of the European Union in the coming year. This will further extend the existing public sources from which the National Foundation will finance the development of civil society in the Republic of Croatia by means of EU funds, allowing civil society organisations to achieve financial support through a number of competitions to be launched by the National Foundation from domestic and EU sources. In particular, the efforts and achievements of the National Foundation in the field of transparency of the use of approved financial support and responsibility for the financing of quality projects and civil society organisations programmes by financial support providers from public sources, i.e. the Ministry and the Office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In this context, the computer support programme plus which has designed and perfected the National Foundation for the past 5 years provides the necessary transparency related to the process of granting financial support, so that we believe that the application and use of this programme from this year and to all the authorities of the State administration will also contribute to better coordination of all bodies financed by civil society organisations, and that at the same time it will allow all interested citizens to see the results of the funding of projects and programmes. We expect that this example will soon be followed by units of local and regional (regional) self-government which will also use the support programme plus thus contributing to the overall network of financial support providers at all levels. From all of this now presented, the report on the work of the National Foundation of the Croatian Party Retirement Club will support the report on the work of the National Foundation for 2011. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19402	Thank you, too. On behalf of HNS MP Sonja König. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19403	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed manager. We in HNS support the report and the work of the Civil Society Development Foundation in the Republic of Croatia, and at this time I would like to give on behalf of the HNS Club our few expectations from the Foundation, but also from politicians, in part and from politics. It took a long time in Croatia to rule, that the state, to make governments realize how influential this non-governmental sector is and how important it is for our country. It took us some time to realize that joint cooperation and constructive dialogue have affected the development of democracy and the resolution of many social problems, and since 2003 it has been involved. The Civil Society Development Foundation. In Croatia, at the beginning of this year, more than 45,000 associations were registered in the register of associations. They say from the register that on average, 8 or 9 associations are registered daily. The results of research, visibility and public perception of associations in the Republic of Croatia, which was conducted by the Institute of Ivo Pilar in the middle of this year, are here on this survey, showing that 13.5% of citizens have never heard of the expression of associations or NGOs, and 22% of them have heard of the term but have no idea what it means at all. It is also true that, compared to the same research in previous years, the situation has improved and that in recent years there has been more knowledge and work of associations. But these around 35% of citizens who are not familiar with their meaning and work show that in front of the foundation there is a huge job of the manager and that the realization of their goal, which is the increase, visibility and organisation of civil society, has a great space for progress. That is why "Days of the Association" organized in June by the Office for the Associations of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the TASK and the National Foundation for Civil Society Development are a valuable tool not only of informative but also of a formative character. We at the HNS think that this is a good way to achieve the objectives of the foundation whose report we are talking about today and discussing. Many on the NGO scene suspect that a third of registered associations do not work at all. This is in addition to the report mentioned by Mrs Tyrelli, who is now not here, which says that when carrying out an assessment of the state of development of civil society organisations in Croatia about a third of the 1000 associations in the sample could not be contacted at all because they did not have adequate contact information. So, no address good or phone number. On the other hand, this is no reason for one of the criteria for obtaining financial resources to be an active activity of the association for a number of years. Because that in the beginning reduces the chance for those who may have done some other work for some reason or are just now established, and they have very good and quality programs. We expect from the foundation a sharp warning and immediate termination of the funding of those who do not fulfil their financial obligations in the intended manner. Because despite the fact that in the last 5 years associations have received nearly 7.5 billion kunas, colleagues and colleagues 7.5 billion public money, according to research conducted by their annual financial reports, not even a third of the associations have publicly published. And just in most of their programs, the word transparency is mentioned. We all agree that the non-governmental sector is very important to every society. Afirmira volunteering or taking over part of a job that at a certain point state or county cannot do. But the fact is that in Croatia, the recession situation is the state that has become almost the exclusive financier of the NGO sector. And we in the HNS believe that there is a huge space for cooperation between associations and the business sector. Perhaps by introducing the i.e. by increasing tax incentives for investing in the non-governmental sector in areas such as social care, culture and art, education, and the development of democracy and human rights protection have enabled greater competitiveness among civil society organisations, as well as largely redundancies in the budgets both of the states and of the county, i.e. local self-government units. There are specific proposals, instructions and opinions on similar issues and on the foundation, because it is an institution that has enormous experience in working with associations and is not just how some people can say it only by an institution that can call the competition and split the money. We, Madam Managers, see you as an institution that has and should play a major role in the development of the civil sector whose contribution to the creation of civil society and the development of democracy is invaluable and therefore we accept your foundation's report.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19404	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Davor Stier. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19405	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, the esteemed director of the National Foundation. The HDZ Representatives Club will support the 2011 National Foundation for Civil Society Development Report, which is why we want to further highlight the importance of civil society for the development of Western democracy. And mostly for that reason, I'm going to rely on what my colleague from the HNS said before. It is alarming that many Croatian citizens do not recognise the work and importance of civil society because indeed the strength, the dynamics of civil society, is the measure of a developed democracy. I'd say not just a measure, it's a differential of Western democracy's specifics. Exactly the existence of such a strong, dynamic, plural civil society and what distinguishes Western democracy from what Giovanni Gentile or Benito Mussolini once said that everything must be within the state, nothing outside the state, essentially anything beyond the control of the state apparatus. This very dynamism, this pluralism of civil society, is what distinguishes our democracy from that totalitarian system that until the 1990s ruled Central and Eastern Europe. The communism of any type, that Stalinist kilogram or titoistic one, has always denied free and plural civil society. Everything had to be controlled by the Party, all social institutions had to have this socialistic feature, and even football clubs, and that's actually the problem with these totalitarian systems. Only the Catholic Church was at that time an oasis of freedom that was not under the control of the government although here it was because it was because it wanted to preserve Cardinal Stepinac to lose his own personal freedom and later life. Hence, from the perspective of even Christian democracy, this power, freedom, pluralism of civil society is extremely important. It is essential for the democratic system, and even if you want to come from that evangelical syntagma emperor, the god of God who was actually a revolutionary idea at that time to limit power so that it is not totalitarian, that it simply does not dominate not only the political but also all the social processes. Of course, many centuries later, in the development of political doctrines, such an idea is shaped into what we know today as a liberal democracy, for which we are all at this moment in the sense of opposing every totalitarianism, every totalitarian system. That's why you see from the perspective of Christian democracy, as well as liberal democracies which are both actually anti-totalitarian political doctrines, the development of civil society, and of vital importance for the development of democratic values. However, the prerequisite for this is understood that this civil society is indeed developing in the spirit of pluralism. Because nothing would be worth it to us if the NGO were just some cover or extended arm of political options or even worse one and only one ideology. Civil society is also expected from NGOs to be able to pursue the general good, to use public space and public funds that are not small to promote and tolerate public dialogues and not just particular interests. In Croatia, we have about 46,000 associations, but we need to always ask ourselves whether taxpayers' money is distributed in such a democratic and plural way, that there are no associations that may not be because they represent certain ideology enjoyed by some privileged position. In this regard, it is seen in this report that there is, for example, no programme of the National Foundation that would promote family values, and the family is the foundation of every society. If the family is at risk, it is impossible to make social progress, and then neither economic or any other development. There is no funding of associations that, for example, promote the rights of parents that they, not government and state bureaucracy, are those who will decide what kind of education they want for their children. Clearly, I do not consider responsibility exclusively to be in one institution. So we all have to work together to secure one more plural picture and our civil sector. Let's look at this evenly representation of the associations before me, and more than 50% of the organizations that received support have its headquarters in Zagreb only as regards institutional support, only one association has received institutional support from Brod-Posavina County, from Dubrovnik-Neretvanska, Koprivnica-križevska, Međimurje, Virovička-Podravska and is only one from Zadar County. It is something that certainly opens up a series of questions and we must look together for answers to this, because it is absolutely certain that it is impossible for all civilian let's say or the scene of the civil sector concentrated exclusively in Zagreb. Well, I guess there are also smarts and good projects outside of Zagreb, and my colleague Babic mentioned earlier that from Split-Dalmatia County there are a number of projects which, unfortunately, have not received financial support. Of course, the fact is that certain associations have an advantage, if they have benefited before, is quite certain and those resources that the International Community has also given to certain associations have acquired certain expertise and can be better prepared to more effectively apply and get and now from the National Foundation financial assistance, i.e. support. However, it seems to me that especially when it comes to institutional support which, if I am not wrong, they are conditioned by the existence of projects rather than going into the affirmation of certain civil society institutions. In this segment, it seems to me that much more needs to be taken care of by the pluralism of our society. That's our homework. Finally, I would like to open up another dimension where I think we need to think more about it, and this is a projection of our civil society towards the neighbouring region of Southeast Europe. A large number of people in Croatia have gained extensive experience in working in civil society associations. As I said before at the beginning they were mostly financed from abroad. They are now largely financed from the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. The third natural phase would be for such associations that receive funds from the Croatian budget, these funds and these programmes to support neighbouring countries now and thus contribute to the development of civil society in Serbia, Montenegro, Kosovo, Albania, Macedonia. This would be in the final line and in line with the Croatian Parliament Declaration on the promotion of European values in Southeast Europe. All in all this is a report in a clear, transparent way showing how funds have been spent, which is shared with associations, and I repeat because we consider it extremely important for the development of Croatian democracy that we have a strong and dynamic civil sector club of HDZ representatives will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19406	Thank you, too. We have a replica of your exposure. Damir Mateljan, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19407	Thank you. I think the problem mentioned by Mr. Stier and Mrs. HNS before him is the problem of associations that didn't report to this poll, or that actually doesn't work. It is not the transparency of the work of the associations themselves, but the transparency of the work of the local self-government units. Namely, many mayors, mayors, the heads of the association seek to use not as partners but as a tool for obtaining a certain electoral body by giving them non-transparent, direct money to these associations. They actually completely distort the meaning and the essence of civil society and that's the point of the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19408	Thank you. If I had a chance, I'd answer the line, but I can't. Next, we move on to an individual debate. Marija Vukbratović, here are your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19409	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Madam President of the Management Board, colleagues and colleagues. For reporting on this subject, I have three reasons, so let me explain them. This is a unique opportunity to say a few words about associations and their meaning for the lives of people in small communities. Associations in these areas are the holders of cultural and humanitarian programmes, and very often educational programmes. Leaders and members of the association are hardworking and sacrificial people, volunteers whose work is often underrated. The legislation of some countries is more priced by volunteering, and volunteering is valorized as an important element in enrolment in schools and universities, and many, and especially by younger people, believe that our legislation should be followed by these examples. Secondly, I'm lucky, so I was assigned one of the volunteers who was employed in the Croatian Parliament. It's an extremely hardworking and hardworking girl and we both conducted a survey on civil society associations. I considered it necessary to present only part of the results of this survey in order to meet with them the representatives of the foundation. And thirdly, for the debate, I was also motivated by a contribution to the central daily on Croatian TV about MPs in the Croatian Parliament where they are shown as uneducated and quite lazy people who prepare for their discussions by watching soap operas, so Sulejman the Great is quoted. Speaking about this subject based on a survey I want to show that it's not always like that. The survey wanted to prove and find out what problems the associations face in everyday life, how much they are actually familiar with the work of the National Foundation, which all sources of funding for projects, are working with local and regional self-government units, and what the environment's view on their work is, although there have already been a lot of talk about polls today. This is specific for the reason that it was implemented in the area of two cities – Križevci and Vrbovac where 260 associations of which 142 in Križevci operate according to the Register of the Association of the Republic of Croatia, and 118 in Vrbovac. According to the dominant activities targeted by the associations, we could share in several categories – sports associations and alliances, associations dealing with humanitarian work, associations dealing with the protection and promotion of the interests of special groups of society, associations whose members are engaged in certain activities, associations for promotion of culture, and associations that simultaneously achieve more goals such as increasing the quality of life, preserving ethnic heritage, preserving the environment, affirmation of women in society and the like. It is necessary to point out that it is almost impossible to single-mindedly distinguish the activities of associations because each of them can have humanitarian action, each of which can implement projects related to the conservation of the environment, increasing the quality of life and others. These associations are mainly funded from the budget but are partly funded by sponsorships, voluntary contributions, membership fees and other. Unfortunately, the crisis and economic recession were first felt by associations and therefore the existence of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development is of paramount importance. The higher-quality associations, associations with better management and better quality programmes of broader meaning can be partly financed from the source of the Zakla. However, reading the reports of the 2011 Foundation raises some questions. Number one, for the funding of the support programme for the development of civil society under the cooperation and development programme, only associations from the city of Zagreb appeared. From other counties, the association did not report or were rejected after the assessment. It's interesting why so few applications from other backgrounds, why they were rejected, if they had any help writing the program. Secondly, when it comes to the decentralised model of funding for civil society development, it seems to me that it is my subjective view that the regions may not be the most justly divided. Let me give you an example. One region is 8 counties plus the city of Zagreb. Bjelovarsko-bilogorska, Karlovacka, Koprivničko-križevačka, Krapinsko-zagorska, Međimurska, Sisak-moslavačka, Varazdinska, Zagrebačka and City of Zagreb. So one region makes up 9 units where almost 50% of the population actually lives. While you have, for example, a region that consists of only three or four counties. Third, the monitoring of the implementation of the programme and the funds spent is fine. However, whether an analysis and a real benefit have been made from these projects, whether the projects have been revived and whether they have continued. Is there any feedback? Something about it was said by a colleague named Tyrelli. It is also worrying that only one out of 50 respondents heard of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development, according to a survey conducted. Maybe the foundation should work harder on its promotion. And fifthly, those associations that heard about the foundation, who cooperated with it and who appeared in competitions also have several objections. For smaller local associations that certainly bring additional value in the development of local communities, it would be very valuable if regional foundations began to finance some other projects, not just citizens' initiatives. Although it is also possible to obtain 13 thousand kuna for the funding of these projects. In order to achieve this, the resources provided by the National Foundation should be increased to regional ones. Furthermore, in principle, in all competitions and calls for trusts, the level of administration should be reduced. It is thought of the number of documents and forms that associations must collect in order to meet at all the formal conditions of these tenders. The very useful solution proposed by these associations is the introduction of an online application via a web application such as has the Ministry of Culture. The leaders of some associations believe it would be easier for them to work and plan if the tenders were scheduled early in the year, as some ministries also do, and not only in the second half of the year. So these are just some of the hopes of constructive thinking and suggestions of associations. Finally, I would conclude that in the area of these two cities where the survey was conducted, there are numerous associations that have a wide range of activities. They are the bearers of social life and sometimes the only help they need. The organization's operators are selfless volunteers. However, associations and their volunteers are generally not sufficiently directed to the possibility of using the services available to them as well as to the financing choices at their disposal. It may therefore be useful to design an education program for the heads of the associations. The awareness of the importance of volunteering and volunteering is quite low but the number of volunteers increasing year after year gives hope that young generations have feelings of solidarity and empathy, so such virtues should be recognized, encouraged and rewarded. We intend to expand the survey, and when it is completely finished and processed, we will make it available in the faith that it may help improve the work of the foundation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19410	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, actually, my debate is going to go more on a few issues because I've read all the materials we have and I understand a lot of it, and I've just been asked a few questions, so I'd like to ask you at the end of the debate to answer me. I know that civil society is very important for Croatian society, but we are also talking about more than 45 thousand of these associations, we are talking about a lot of money with which these associations are financed and how you will separate associations that work generally well from associations that are purposeful to themselves. Because we're also saying that you can't contact a third of the organizations, so you don't know what they're doing because you can't even know what the funds have been spent and how they've already received if they don't come back to you. I'm also interested in you having an association that, for example, They're promoting the truth about the Homeland War. These associations also finance foreign countries so that I am very interested in how much and whether you are under pressure from various embassies to support or allocate certain funds because I have the names of countries that support different associations. 50.8% of the association receive from gambling, state budget 48.8%, environmental protection fee 0.2% and non-financial support 0.2%. So, from a state budget that's very weak, where there's a huge 48.8% savings going on. So I'm very interested in how you're going to control these associations, in which way I'm going to say not to punish or reduce the giving of these associations that are really the purpose of themselves, and the honor of those who are truly selflessly working to improve the lives of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19411	Thank you, too. Next up for debate Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19412	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Manager, colleagues and colleagues. Here is what I want to underline today, i.e. to highlight and highlight, which I believe is obviously not sufficiently highlighted because of the data that my colleagues have said before me, which is that 13% of the citizens have not heard, i.e. 35% of the citizens are not familiar with the meaning of the foundation, or civil society, which is why I want to stress here the role of the Civil Society Development Foundation in the process of democratisation of all societies, i.e. from the democratisation of Croatian society. In fact, European experiences also show that public policy models that take into account the attitudes of civil society are more effective than those that are actually imposed from some sort of political centres. In this regard, I believe that the foundation actually gives one synergy in decision-making processes, allows for the inclusion of as many citizens as possible and opens up the possibility in some kind of democratic dialogue. Also, the fact that there are additional sources of funding beyond the public budget imposes in fact additional dynamics in the number and quality of associations, and today we have heard the data that you have presented in fact that one third of the associations do not correspond at all, then what is the frequency of the formation of new associations. Therefore, I feel that we really need to think about both the number and the quality of the associations themselves. All that we have been talking about in Croatia for 20 years with hope, we are talking about transparency, inclusion, decentralisation, we are talking about encouraging wider communication, we are talking about issues of public interest. And it's actually happening here in practice, right through civil society, that is, through this foundation. I also have to show satisfaction, or encourages the fact that we have a trust from last year, I think it's called "Culture New". This foundation, which is very important, is aimed at providing professional financial assistance to civil society organisations in culture, which is very, very important. Now there's something else I'd like to say about the area, my area of Dubrovnik where I come from. In fact, in this area, our city's civil society foundation is very much present both as institutional assistance and as a help in other respects, the assistance of projects. She is present in associations, supports the work of the Association of Desi, art workshops... , the European home and other associations that the City of Dubrovnik cooperates with, that is, so that we have a foundation, that is, civil society of the City of Dubrovnik as a local self-government, which is a very good partner. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here I will now tell you about Desa something very short, very interesting, Desa who today has development programs, has educational programs, has programs to strengthen civil society, what Mrs. Manager pointed out at the beginning, what other colleagues said was the problem. It's exactly the education of the Head of the Association, that our association is essentially doing this job, so it's spreading its knowledge which is the goal, and we know here that we're not giving in vain money. And that association started a long time ago in the war, started thinking about what to do with the apathy that was in those days, what to do with women who were just waiting for that help that was humanitarian aid. It has therefore made it possible for all members to look back on their inner values and work in this way since the start of the programme. The first programs were created in small rooms, and today I say again there are developmental, educational projects, projects to strengthen civil society, or art workshop Lazareti, which was created long ago, I think it was '88. years created. It's a workshop that has, deals with contemporary art, which has concert, stage activities, etc. etc. We therefore have very good examples of how the foundation is financed by such associations, i.e. examples of partnership between local self-government and civil society. I can therefore conclude that a society where the civil platform is not really solid, I can freely say that no democratic society has been developed, by supporting the Civil Society Development Foundation is also supporting the development of democracy, i.e. the public sphere and society. That is why I am of course in favour of this report, which is very comprehensive and very transparent, which is very important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19413	Thank you, too. Next, Ante Babic. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. And finally Florist. I'm sorry, buddy Babic. I called you. I haven't noticed. Next time, be a little faster. And finally Tsvetana Plavša Matic, chairman of the Management Board. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19414	Honorable MPs and respected MPs. I thank you for this debate and for the support you have shown to the National Foundation, but perhaps perhaps what you are, is an interesting survey that you have presented to us, we have so much to confess we do not praise in the public as a national foundation, we highlight the results of what civil society organisations are doing, perhaps it is a mistake, perhaps not, but somehow it seems very important to me that the citizens know what, which is the benefit, which is the impact that has taken place thanks to our work. This, you've all mentioned somewhere this one-third of the organizations that haven't responded, it's a pattern that we've actually received from the Government's Office of Associations of 1,000 907 organizations that have been funded from the state budget, not only have they been national foundations, and the problem is, in fact, that the body of the state administration has been once approved by civil society organisations, and that's what we've now managed to propose to the vice presidents of Opačić that this program, which was mentioned by a representative of Fortuna called support plus, which we've developed to actually be applied to all bodies of the state administration, and then when we do that, we'll know exactly who approved who, how much funds, whether we duplicate funds for paying, for the cold drive of these associations, so we'll have one unique, one tool in fact to prevent duplication of funding funding. I've been doing this job for 15 years, and I can tell you responsibly that when we start that way, we coordinate that one third of the funds will be available for any other general useful activity. One third of the funds are certainly going to duplicate that we all who are financial support providers do not coordinate and that sometimes even the same projects occur, if they are not projects, then at least the same project items. So I think that this program, this is the information program that we have developed in the past five years, which we have now made available to the Government of the Republic of Croatia without any compensation because it is our contribution to all that we have done so far, in order to achieve further transparency. This is also very important to us because of those associations that work really well and very well, not to be in the same basket with those who are unfortunately not so profiled. So we think that we will contribute to this additional democratisation and transparency with this one tool, and what we are doing is, in part, the answer to Mrs. Tomasic's question, we are doing an evaluation on the ground before it is approved. So we go into the field, see if this association, I mean the paper takes it all, you know, then we go and see if there really are human potentials, if there's an organisational development that can do it, if there's knowledge, if there's even experience in financial management when you give someone 50 thousand kuna he needs to know how to manage that money. And it will certainly be, when we talk about associations that work for the common good, it will be easier for us when, if we have some kind of document, the law or whatever it is we'll call it, when it'll be specified, but you can do it now and now, you can do it through the criteria of the competition very clearly tell who you're giving that money, what that organization has to satisfy to get public money, taxpayers' money is the hardest money, I always tell them that I'm giving you 100 kuna like this and I won't even ask you if you've spent it, but taxpayers have the right to know where that money is gone, primarily our responsibility that we get from the state to allocate it, our responsibility, but also the responsibility of those who finally got those funds. It's personal I think it's a very big responsibility for all of us who are in this process, and we need to take it seriously. This support plus, meaning this computer program that will be used by all the authorities of the state administration as of this year, and in negotiations with some units of local self-government, Rijeka has already shown interest, Zagreb has shown interest and some other cities, so when we are all networked, then this programme will allow one part of that programme to be made available to the public. So one will be for us operatives who follow these projects, the other part will be available to the public and these associations will write the results of their projects in that system and each of us, each citizen and citizen will be able to see what they are for those 10,000 or 100,000 kunas they have received, what they have achieved, what the results and that will be the greatest contribution to the public of work, so I believe that next year, when we report to you, we will definitely have some new indicators to say. So it is important that I also agree with what Ms. König said is very important that we influence the education of people, that these people must be aware that it is important to know how to manage the organization quality, how to prepare projects quality and how to implement it in the end line and report it, these are very important things, and therefore it is important for us to have our regional development, and the regional networks that are on the ground and which provide this support to civil society organisations, and they organise seminars and workshops and one on one consultation, legal advice they give, I think they are really the support that nothing costs them, and we pay for these services. It is important that we also concentrate on a local level, it is quite agreeable that what you said may not be appropriate in one region that one foundation has 9 counties, unfortunately at a time when we have called this contest, we have chosen the foundations that are our partners, there has been no foundation that has reported this contest, this does not mean that we will not try again, perhaps to share this region in two, so that it is simple to manage it, but it is important to continue to decentralisation this story, we have introduced this year, and we will report this next year, we will introduce the possibility of financing local projects through cooperation of local self-government, and these cities up to 30,000 inhabitants, means small cities that together with their citizens prepare projects, now it is in the phase of assessing these projects, to assess which priorities, to prepare projects and motivate cities to establish the benefits of their citizens, to work together with their citizens, to be able to implement the projects, to be able to work together with their citizens, to work on their citizens, to work through their citizens, to be able to be able to work through their citizens's projects. So here, hopefully, I've written down everything you've said and thank you for all the suggestions and suggestions, we'll certainly put that into what we're preparing for next year, but I believe that already this year we've made some steps that will help us be more effective in this responsible business that we do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19415	Thank you, too. By exhibiting the President of the Management Board of Honored Tsvetana Plavša Matić, we have completed and exhausted the list of applicants for discussion on this subject. I am concluding the debate on the Annual Report on the work of the National Foundation, and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19416	Annual report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2011. The debate on the report is closed. In line with the proposal of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Annual report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2011 is hereby accepted". I'm asking you to state who's in favour of the proposed conclusion. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you. I find that the conclusion has been accepted by the majority of 118 votes for and 6 abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19417	And now I'm asking for an apology. The Proposer asks us to skip the point next on the agenda for a moment, to do the 2011 Report on discrimination, and then the report on the work of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre, because the promoter will come here, has some... If there is no opposition, I would suggest that the 2011 Report on the occurrences of discrimination is now under discussion, the applicant is the Ombudsman, based on Article 12 of the report. [[You don't understand.]] The Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. You received the materials by mail. The government has delivered its opinion. The report was discussed by the Committee on Health and Social Policy and the Committee on Gender Equality. You received a report from these working bodies at the session. Does the Proposer want to further explain the report? The esteemed Attorney General Jurica Mancic, he's here, he's coming. I just got word. There's no one here. There is, but he's not here. We're here. He'll be right there. It's good to think a little bit about discrimination before we get into the debate. There's going to be a public defender coming. ... All kinds of discrimination, we're wide-ranging. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yeah. Is it possible that while we wait for the regiment, perhaps representatives, presidents of the Committee on Health, Social Policy, perhaps the Committee on Gender Equality? No, I don't. Nothing. He's gone. We'll do it. Nothing to open up the debate. So we'll hear about it when he gets here. I'm opening a debate. The debate starts with the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Let's get this straight. The first club is the Croatian Labourers and respected representative Nancy Tyrelli. She's not here either. Go, go, go. You. Given the situation, let's stop. Di's Nancy. ... It hasn't been published. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I agree. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's take a break until 2:00. That's enough. 20 minutes off. Thank you very much. Fair enough. When it doesn't go differently, we'll do it honestly.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19418	Honorable MPs, respected MPs. Here's a break we've done to successfully say that part. We are now moving on to the presentation - the 2011 report on the occurrences of discrimination. That's what we announced. I call for an additional or introductory explanation of the attorney general of the esteemed Jurica Malcic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19419	Representatives, this is the third report submitted by the Ombudsman to the Assembly as a central body under the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, which, as you know, took effect on 1 January 2009. The first report was considered, so the 2009 report was considered by the old assembly, while the second report, so the 2010 report, even though it was delivered to the Assembly, was never put on the agenda or the old but not the new assembly. So this is the first report discussed by this new assembly. Therefore, because this is the first report, I must express my regret, and in some way also dissatisfaction with the fact that the committees have not been able to discuss this report and that this report is being discussed in such a decor as is today, given that the public defender is, in order to say whether or not one mediator between the Parliament and the citizens has intervened in 10 thousand cases so far, and I think that the experience of the Ombudsman should somehow be treated in a better way. It is clear to me that this is a random situation, so there are circumstances, but I would like to express my belief that, as the new coalition has said, it will treat the attorney general positively and through legal change, and through budgets for this year, that the institution of the Ombudsman and his report will also be treated in the future in the way it was advocated while it was in opposition that the institution is being treated. In the opening part precisely because it is the first report we have made a somewhat broader reference to the very concept of discrimination, the relevant legal regulation, but also to the position and role of the attorney general as a central body, as well as other defence institutions. Afterwards, we gave an indication of the treatment of complaints, i.e. complaints of discrimination with statistical data and the necessary comments and explanations separately for the attorney general and for the special defences, but through certain tables and united for all institutions according to certain criteria, according to the sex of the complainants, the foundations and areas of discrimination... etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In doing so, only one note, as you know under the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, is submitted by the Advocate General, the special defenders do not have the obligation of a special report, but they in their regular work reports, of course, since their main area of work is to combat discrimination in certain, according to certain grounds, they, these reports were discussed at the Parliament, therefore in our report, their contributions, as they gave them, in a more general form. I am also sorry that they are not, do not participate in the work of this session, because it is their problem, although of course I only in, when I sent the report I suggested that they be invited to the session when the debate is held. But as I said considering and they had already participated when their work reports were, therefore it will not be such a big problem. The data on complaints show lower deviations of the continuation of already observed and known facts and trends, remains the largest share of complaints based on ethnic nationality, if you have seen 51 complaints of 147, so one, slightly more than one-third, while the number of complaints on other grounds is evenly moving, it is not a large number of 3 to 10ths therefore... state, religion, union membership, health status, so all the other basics, are mostly individual complaints while the most relevant number is based on this basis on national and ethnicity. [[You don't understand.]] According to the complaints, discrimination is also most often in the field of employment, hence work, working conditions and employment, also one third of all, but it is also quite common in the areas of administration and justice, education, etc. And as the perpetrators of discrimination, the complainants, far in most cases, cite the authorities of the state and local administrations, judicial authorities, and bodies with public authority, and in a significantly smaller number of legal persons, therefore in the area of the economy, others which do not have public authority and natural persons, this number moves around 20 such complaints against legal persons, i.e. natural persons. All the data is shown in the tables, and commented, so I won't repeat, of course there's no need. However, what should be pointed out is that among the complaints is the largest number and even a surprising number, i.e. the share of unfounded complaints, or those in which or... either after the investigation procedure, there is no need for a degree of likelihood of discrimination. [[You don't understand.]] I'm not going to explain the reasons, I think in our report they're somewhat well explained, but the fact is that it's different to say the legal concept of discrimination from a layman or even a Colloquial, and many use the Institute of Discrimination to solve some of their other issues. Of course, we do not throw such complaints into the basket, but treat them as other complaints that come to the Ombudsman, so not as discrimination, but as possibly an incorrect or illegal treatment. It is precisely because a large number of these complaints should be interpreted with a certain reserve, which is why we have also commented on all these tables in a way that shows that it is not to be taken for granted because the complaints are only one part and that is a far smaller part of what is happening in this area of discrimination. We are, of course, collecting and learning about the occurrences of discrimination from all possible other sources, there are statistics, there are research, there are analysis reports etc. both state bodies, international organisations and civil organisations, and in that sense, the other part of the report, which deals with a little more detailed discriminatory grounds and certain areas of discrimination, we are, of course, using our complaints and any other possible source of knowledge. So in a team to say so in that part where we sort of chose certain characteristic and critical to say critical areas and basics, we could think competently in some way give assessments and according to these and certain recommendations. So we specifically processed ethnicity, national origin as a basis, then age, faith, and property. So it comes from the arraignment of the attorney general, but also from the responsibilities of the special counsel, so... gender, sexual orientation, disability, children as a special category, etc. [[You don't understand.]] So that's the one I would say the main part of the report in which we presented our assessment of the situation, but of course we followed it with certain recommendations that were specifically isolated and which I can of course serve to further debate. What I would still like to point out is that, of course, it is still a focus to be at those critical points I would say it is discrimination based on national and ethnicity, then especially on gender equality and discrimination based on sexual orientation, not only because these are common ground but also because they are still in some way unlike most others were followed I would say to a certain verbal and sometimes even physical violence. I think that some progress has been made and that things are going in some way in the right direction, but it is still absolutely unacceptable that today we have physical and verbal attacks that are not in an adequate way spotlessly and should be condemned, not only in public, but, of course, in a political mile above all. For the first time in our Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, namely the research carried out this year shows that in the perception of people, the focus is in some way being moved and on this basis of discrimination, so more and more people consider it to be a very common basis of discrimination, and they feel discriminated in this sense. There is not as much direct discrimination as there is in some way indirect discrimination, which means that what we can say right now is what we specifically mentioned in our report, which is, for example, free legal aid as one of I would say the biggest possible problems, problems when it comes to property discrimination, it is one inappropriate free legal aid which, despite a few years, does not work properly and does not allow anyone who is necessarily necessary, and even the criteria of some European state, I would say and by our criteria does not allow equal access to court as others. So this is one of the most equative examples, however, of what people object to, it is that some legislative solutions, of course, which are neutral because they concern everything, given the very unequal and difficult situation of the poor and the weak that they have such an impact, are almost discriminatory, and that means that they are in fact coming at the risk of social exclusion and I would say cuts for some fundamental and fundamental rights. I think you'll need more attention, with what I've said, so these forms that are more and more known are just trying to get through all the measures, laws, regulations, etc. to take care of the treatment of unequal... It's equally not good and positive in any case, and that's what it's going to take to take, I'd say more accounts. [[You don't understand.]] As far as justice is concerned and judgment by discrimination, as you have seen reports very little still under the new Law of Powerful Judgments. But the number of total proceedings before the courts is increasing, increasing each year, and yet it is expected that we will soon have a little more court practice which, since only the court can finally determine discrimination will give a certain satisfaction, improve the reparation, etc. While the occupier can, of course, only help people to exercise those rights. What we wanted to achieve is that as far as justice is concerned, to amend the Law on Discussing Discrimination of Provisions which determines the obligation of the courts and the Ministry of Justice to provide us with certain data because you can see from the reports that we have very serious problems, that the records are unequal, and that it is difficult to draw certain conclusions. I am sorry that the recent amendments to the Law on Discrimination were not our requirements in this regard, but I hope that this will be corrected because we and the Ministry of Justice have taken certain steps to try to establish a system, even with such legal regulation that we can give more thorough judgment assessments. The fact is that relatively few people address courts, however, it should also be prescribed, of course, and the general state of justice, with us long-term proceedings, mistrust in courts, so these are all issues that affect significantly. Here's the report is enough, we've shown a relationship with civil society, our international cooperation, I don't think there's any need to burden you anymore because neither convince the content of the report, we'll be here if it's necessary to provide the necessary explanations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19420	Thank you, too. Before I reopen the debate on the report, I am sorry to say to the esteemed Ombudsman for a part of your evaluations presented here, and I share my opinion with you on the importance of the issue you are taking here, but for the sake of the public interest, I must say that the Parliament was also surprised when you were not at the beginning of the Parliament's work on this item, which is on the agenda and on the agenda of today's session of the Parliament, and this is what I would like to say about the debate on this subject for the time being. I am fully responsible for saying that this is above average interest in the subject. Now I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the board. [[Intruder: On behalf of the board.]] Here you go. Thank you very much. On behalf of the board, the esteemed representative Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19421	Thank you, Mr. President. So here's again for the public and for the record, first of all, I think that our attorney-in-law came in time, since as far as I know one item of the agenda was skipped, so as such, he couldn't have known that it had to come sooner, he probably followed the agenda, and the second, too, at the beginning of his presentation, the parliamentary committees were called and he was sorry that they hadn't discussed this report, so here I am reporting on behalf of the Committee on Gender Equality, which was held at his 9th session on October 18th this year, discussing a report on discrimination for 2011 and here on behalf of the Committee I am now reporting. Introductoryly, the Deputy Attorney General presented a brief report. During 2011, 147 new files relating to discrimination were opened, of which 103 complaints on discrimination were resolved, and 18 established suspicions of discrimination. The majority of complaints were related to race or ethnicity and national origin as a basis of discrimination, and labour and working conditions prevailed from the field of discrimination. Our committee was also attended by a lawyer for gender equality who presented part of the report on gender discrimination. During 2011, there were a total of 188 cases of discrimination in 85.1% of cases of discrimination, in 8.5% of cases of sexual orientation, and married or family status in 5.9% of cases. Even 40.4% of cases relate to the field of labour and working conditions, and even two-thirds of complaints on discrimination were related to the conduct of state bodies, and only one third were complaints of discrimination against employees in private, legal and physical persons and civil society organisations. They worry about increasingly complex cases and emerging forms of discrimination. Cases of discrimination in access to goods and services have also occurred so far. The lawyer pointed out cases where the Croatian Health Insurance Institute discriminates against pregnant women by declaring certain fixed contracts for work concluded during pregnancy. As a result of such a major and serious problem, a meeting of the Ombudsman and representatives of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth and the Ministry of Health was held recently and an agreement was reached on the modification of such behaviour. The following debate estimated that the report does not differ much from previous reports, and the opinion that anti-discrimination legislation is good and that it is necessary to work on education and the dissemination of awareness of discrimination even at the youngest age. It has been indicated that the report is being discussed in the Croatian Parliament and in the working bodies because that is what the law requires, however, media should also report on it. Committee members pointed out the need to educate young generations on this subject through civic education, as well as a wide range of other courses in schools. Furthermore, a small number of reported cases of discrimination do not mean that discrimination was not but that due to the difficult situation it simply did not report. A large number of citizens, especially employees, have been raised intolerant to discrimination and are more prepared to endure rough forms of discrimination in order to preserve their jobs because of the material situation. Furthermore, the members and members of the Committee of Opinions are that the state institutions have more reported cases of discrimination because the complainants do not fear being fired, but they are somehow more protected, while in the private sector the situation is far, far more difficult. The work of the attorney general and the work of specialised lawyers is not sufficiently represented in the media, it is not said enough, it is not written enough, and as a very valuable part of the report, it is assessed that the recommendations of the Advocate General are to be carried out, or even better monitored for their implementation, that is to say, to see how far we have strayed from the implementation of all these instructions that the Ombudsman in that report lets us say so in the legacy of what we should do. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach the following conclusion: - A report on the occurrences of discrimination for 2011 is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19422	Thank you very much to the Committee on Gender Equality. Does he want a representative of the Health and Social Policy Committee? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. The debate begins with the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The first club is the Croatian Labourers and respected representative Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19423	I would like to thank Mr. President, the esteemed Attorney General with his assistants. Here it is, I won't repeat what I just said on behalf of the board, not necessary. I would take this opportunity to look at the discrimination that young people are experiencing, which is becoming more obvious every day, and which we may not talk about so much, here is what we have mentioned about the Ombudsman for gender equality, so I will focus only on this one report that was made on a sample of more than 3700 young people who have answered the question of discrimination in the following way. Even 76% of young people aged 15 to 29 feel discriminated against during the employment process, i.e. the selection process itself, as well as during the work process for a specific employer. The results are the first systematic research of young people on the labour market called "Uncomfortable Position", and the Report on Discrimination of Youth in the Croatian Labour Market conducted by the Institute for the Development of the Labour Market in collaboration with the Moj- Job Portal. Age discrimination is mostly met by young people between 15 and 19 years of age, and with age it is rarely related and sexual and discrimination is not based on membership of a national minority or for disability. Among the most frequent discriminatory issues in the youth’s job interview, especially women between 25 and 30 years of age, raise questions about family planning in the first place. The second most common form of discrimination is to observe a person through prism smoker or non-smoking while in third place there is sexual discrimination. Participants in the public debate are that discrimination on the labour market is not the result of evil intentions but simply the result of lack of information. In fact, although most employers and young employers are familiar with the fact that there is a Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, many of them are not aware of what issues are considered discriminatory and that there are issues which, in a certain context, may be discriminatory. This is what the Ombudsman warned us about when he said that a lot of cases simply must be rejected because of their own poor foundation, and probably one of the reasons is that the employers think that they can ask and have the right to ask anything, someone else is feeling hurt at that time. So perhaps here, because of such situations as much media attention as possible on this issue, as much school education as possible, children of the earliest age should be able to recognize simply where the border of good and fair taste ends, and where the course of discrimination begins. The good news is that 35% of young people point out that discrimination encourages them to be even more persistent while 43% of employees exposed to discrimination in the workplace simply decide to change jobs. However, such a type of resistance is not enough to combat discrimination, but a systematic education of all market participants on this subject is needed. So, from the arsonists, but also from the employers. And from this analysis, i.e. from this short study, a proposal for measures for stakeholders where they say that education should be given to the public, young and employers on forms of discrimination especially through the regular activities of the Croatian Employment Service because it is one of the addresses where unfortunately these young people are too often. To monitor and keep records of all youth work experiences, including part-time and similar engagements, and to record them as well as any good work experience in the workbook or e-book of workers that we have talked about here several times or some third form of work experience and competence because it is obvious that when young people report to work, you are often young, there is still time for you, and the fact is that it is in one form discrimination if this young man who applied to the competition meets all the conditions in this competition, so that he should certainly not, as such, be at any time and there should be no obstacle. Increase the number of hours of practical teaching, so for all forms of education, provide a mandatory and regular education on professional guidance and information on the state of the labour market for all school educators and psychologists, introduce incentives for employers who employ their scientists, i.e. practitioners, which just means that they have already met, stress the importance of fair relationship of employers to employees, provide support in organising events that promote positive Croatian practices, a stronger educational promotional media campaign. And as for the employer's recommendation, they look like this. Therefore, to intensify mentoring programmes, to explore on the Croatian labour market all those practices of employers in the field of governance of these very diversity, to monitor statistics on young people as a workforce within the company itself, to support the working collective, to create young groups within companies, to provide education for employers in respect of the anti-discrimination legislative framework, to include young people in the planning and development of services and products and to hire on the basis of competences and to reward the engagement and responsibility of employees to achieve business results. And perhaps what is most important in all these recommendations for employers is to be present at schools and universities through workshops, fairs, donations, presentations and various meetings precisely because they get to know the strength and competence of young people. Cases that have received their epilogue this year, which is a verdict in favour of the Ogulin raiser on the basis of national discrimination and an unlawful verdict at the Varazdin Court, which has been passed for discrimination on 2 high school girls who have refused to apply for practice because of their ethicality, show that there are positive developments in the matter of discrimination, and probably this is an incentive for all those who do not yet know that there is a law as well as institutions that can, try and want to resolve that they are definitely being addressed and asked for their help. And once again here is the appeal to the media that this concept of discrimination in Croatia, on any basis, takes it very seriously because it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19424	Thank you very much. The next club is SDP club and respected representative Dunja Spoljar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19425	Thank you, Mr President, for the representatives of the rapporteurs of this report, colleagues and fellow MPs. Unauthorized distinction of persons based on race or ethnicity, based on the colour of the skin, sex, language, religion, political or other belief, national or social origin, property status, union membership, based on education, social status, marital or family status, age, health status, disability, genetic heritage, birth identity and expression of sexual orientation, is also not permitted. The Law on Discrimination of Discrimination is categorically clear. But discrimination detection is already a different story. Discrimination will be recognized by verbal or physical actions directed against some persons who are placed in an unequal and unfavourable position in relation to others. Discrimination does not always have to be an activity, but can also be done by inaction. Usually discrimination is divided into direct and indirect. Wasn't it declassified in the 21st century to discuss discrimination? And this is not a preventive, or theory, but to testify discrimination through the Report on the occurrences of discrimination. If it did not confirm 147 complaints received by the Ombudsman, 188 lawyers for gender equality, 25 lawyers for persons with disabilities and 7 lawyers for children only in 2011 to whom this report refers. If some research is correct, and if 367 complaints I counted only 5% of the real phenomenon, then in 2011 there were 7, at least 7340 incidents in which an individual or group was discriminated against. The data are from several sources – complaints from citizens and NGOs, news and information from media and various internet portals, court practice, independent research, and reports from domestic and international organisations and institutions, and from the report of three children's lawyers for persons with disabilities and lawyers for gender equality. The biggest complaints are from the field of work and employment. As we've heard, 63% of cases, and the most common basis for minority, ethnic groups. Therefore, the most frequent victims are members of national minorities, especially Roma and LGBT persons. Then comes health care, justice and police treatment. Social origin and property are highlighted as the most common reasons for discrimination while nationality fell from first to second place. Emphasis of the property situation as the main reasons for discrimination can be attributed to the growth of unemployment and the fall of the economic power of wider layers of society. It's a very, very thin line between prejudice and stereotype, and discrimination. Animosity towards groups stems from stereotypes and prejudices by feeding on uninformation and ignorance almost regularly grows into discrimination. In this light, almost dangerous research results, political literacy and attitudes on Croatia's accession to the European Union are also interesting among the students of the final classes of secondary schools conducted by GONG in 2010. And that's where it turns out that 45%, so high school kids think most jobs can be divided into more suitable women and more suitable men. 45% think homosexuality is some kind of disease. 64% believe that homosexuals should be banned from public appearances because they have a bad influence on youth rearing. 48% that young people should have priority in employment compared to older people. 24 that you cannot imagine married to another national and 40% that Croatians should have more rights than other peoples in Croatia. The Croatian legislation is clear on the tolerance of discrimination. Protecting fundamental human rights and promoting the equality of individuals regardless of gender, race and ethnicity is one of the fundamental values of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. So prescribed by the Constitution. Discrimination in the Republic of Croatia is prohibited by a large number of legal acts, a number of international laws on human rights and freedoms adopted by the Republic of Croatia and a number of laws of which are the roof law - the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination and an equally important Law on Gender Equality. It is not only because the signing of the Treaty of Accession of Croatia is particularly under the increased Member States of the European Union since accession to the European Union will have an obligation to ensure the effective application of the Law on sex-based discrimination, above all, rather than fundamentally because of the need to ensure adequate equality between men and women, the equality of citizens and citizens, and to raise public awareness of the importance of equal treatment regardless of the diversity of the conditions for living in a society with a zero degree of tolerance on all forms of discrimination, but also on the permanent amputation of stereotypes and prejudice from all pores of society, particularly from the education system. We welcome this trail of recommendations from the Ombudsman that it is necessary to carry out systematic education on human rights at all levels of education with an emphasis on the phenomenon of discrimination because education is the most important factor for change and improvement in society. From this autumn after 13 years of preparation for school, an experimental exercise of civic education is being introduced. Students will be required to listen from the first elementary to the end of high school education at 35 hours a year. They will learn how unacceptable all forms of discrimination are from birth to ethnic and racial, how to accept different people regardless of their religious, material, or any other status. In the expectation that the report on the occurrences of discrimination will be significantly lower and more substantially shorter, when these generations of children grow to the active holders of social activities within the Croatian society, underlining, thus underlining the recommendations of the Advocates and Advocates, and supporting the achievement of these recommendations, the Club of Representatives and the Representatives of the SDP accepts this Report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19426	Thank you, too. The next club is the HDZ club and respected Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19427	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the vacancy attorney with the associates. Here is the Croatian Democratic Community club that discussed this report. And we have to say that it is the Law on Discussing Discrimination, whose application began on 1 January 2009, that has made a major step, because the report uses precisely to get a real picture of whether human rights and freedoms are respected in the Republic of Croatia. It is a law that prohibits discrimination on the basis of a large number today we have heard here discriminatory grounds, of race, of ethnicity, of skin color, of sex, of political beliefs, of employment, of union organization and of not counting because colleagues have mostly made it all out, but in practice it means something else. It means equal treatment for everyone or accepting someone because of his diversity. The question is how well the citizens are aware, and this is what colleagues have already asked in their performance, how aware they are at all that they are making discrimination or that they themselves are exposed to discrimination. It's a very thin line between these two concepts. During 2011, 147 cases of which 103 cases were resolved were reported, and 18 of them alone identified suspicions of discrimination. Since this is the third year of monitoring the implementation of the Law on Discrimination, the awareness of what discrimination has been developing has increased and the number of complaints reported has increased. There were also cases where, after a detailed examination, there was no doubt of discrimination but of another fundamental right of citizens. This shows that we really need to invest as much as possible in strengthening public opinion on the concept of discrimination and on education. The most discriminatory basis in the 2011 complaints is race or ethnicity, skin color and national origin. The attorney general himself has said a third of such reports. Most often, they relate to employment, the resolution of Croatian citizenship or housing in areas of special state concern. It is good that, unlike the first 2009 Report, the Public Advocate, and we who have followed these reports, we can see that there has been significant progress in this observed period and on this basis on the reduction of such complaints. We should certainly work to make additional efforts to raise public awareness of the concepts of discrimination. The majority of complaints relate to employment and employment rights. So that's what bothers the citizens of Croatia. And within that problem, the most complaints refer to the female population. Traditionally, we are a society in which, after 3 years of application of this law, women are placed in an unequal position as regards employment and employment relations, often women also say colleagues, do not report this discrimination to the competent institutions. This report shall contain a report by the Special Advocate, Advocates for Gender Equality, for Persons with Disabilities and Advocates for Children. If we analyze complaints by sex of the prosecutor, we can see that more men have spoken to the attorney general, as many as 37 on the basis of this one, and women 22. And the lawyer for gender equality is multiple women, 91 women, and only 43, so somewhere half men. The largest number of complaints based on discrimination was gender and 76 complaints to the lawyers on gender equality on labour and working conditions which mainly referred to the position of women on the labour market. The situation remains extremely poor. It's a high percentage of women's unemployment. In September, 330 111 total Croatian citizens were registered at the Employment Office. Of which 165 185 women. So almost 50% is a woman. Besides, there are still differences in women's salaries. Women continue to receive an average of only 65% of men's salaries for the same job and for the same training. They continue to meet now in 2011, so I believe it will also be in 2012, because I did not notice that there was a significant step there, with questions about whether you have children or whether you will have more children. No matter how much we try to change the picture in public about these issues and ask ourselves how to protect against discrimination, we must seek answers, colleagues and colleagues among us. We need to talk publicly about this phenomenon, include all institutions, civil society organisations, media that can certainly have the greatest impact on the reduction of this phenomenon. But we need to, and I'm going to underline and agree with my colleagues before, do the most in education. Education from kindergarten to school and in the choice and first profession. Why do I say it in the choice of professions? We have to break up the concept once and for all in textbooks and in the school of men and women's professions. I worked in the '80s and '90s at a professional school in the profession of a tokar in one class was a girl. And I have to tell you, she's been pushing a lot of attention ever since. But when I meet her today, colleagues and colleagues, she unfortunately doesn't do her job even though she was a great master, in practice she proved to be one of the best in that class. Unfortunately, she didn't get a job in her profession, she works at the store. Why in the store? Because the store says it belongs somehow under the quotes of "female" occupation. At this time of economic crisis, when thousands of people lose jobs, employees often file discrimination, do not report exploitation because they consider it to be the least evil of job losses far less. The other day, I asked a lady at the store out of courtesy the way you are? Okay, I'm having a hard time, I've got a small salary, but I'm working. My husband lost his job, he's 57 years old, so who do you think's going to get him and where do you think he's going to get a job? That's the answer she said everything. Why everything? Because it's much easier at this point for people to suffer discrimination and less wages than to lose their jobs. How do you feel about those 20,000 employees in state and public services who are constantly threatened by layoffs, reducing jobs? How many of these people, how safe they feel at all when one minister says we're going to fire surpluses in the state and public administration, and the other says there will be no layoffs. So as representatives, each day someone asks you, is that true and what will happen in public and public services? In several cases, the Advocate General has given the cases to special lawyers who have also provided their analysis and recommendations in this report. The government even showed itself to some recommendations and to this analysis of the situation. We certainly need to support these recommendations and we should really work on some legislative changes, because here I will touch on another very important problem that we colleagues and colleagues have opened yesterday by discussing the report and the suppression and drug control strategy in Croatia. We specifically said there is an increasing problem in Croatia public portals, Internet portals, that drugs are already being offered publicly on these portals. Especially because I want to point out it is, and it is also the public defender in his report and pointed out, an increasing phenomenon in recent times of discriminatory hate speech in public space. The phenomenon of taking views on various forums in electronic media, calling on the lynch, is increasingly dangerous because such media, more young people use the internet. It should certainly be possible for such texts to be published, and some portals to clean it, so-called. "cleaning" those texts. Some have administrators who clean it up. It is good that one part of the Croatian portals has seen this problem so you cannot join in and contact for comment unless you have previously registered. Even if you give a name that is not your real name, they can come and have knowledge of what person it is. But unfortunately, a large part of such portals and unfortunately a large part of the portal have servers that are currently publishing such texts without them being found in Croatia, but ask God somewhere and then you can't trace who's answering these messages at all. What is very significant is the information that has been going through all the reports so far, and that a large number of complaints have been unfounded. So, it says that people may not yet know what discrimination is. That is why it is good for all of them to highlight education as one of the most important tasks. But not just young people, I repeat not only young people but all of them. In particular, it is necessary to educate people who work in the system of education and education, especially those who will work in the system, so those who study in teaching schools should especially be educated on human rights and citizens' freedoms. How mature we are as a society shows how willing we are to accept and respect others who differ according to certain characteristics or attitudes. And finally, colleagues and colleagues, with the prevention of discrimination, it is also necessary to sanction these kinds of behaviours. In order to make it clear to everyone that discriminatory behaviour is completely unacceptable and that Croatian society wants to build its future on the sound foundations of traditional society that will mean respect for diversity, which certainly contributes to the further development of society. The HDZ Club will support this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19428	Thank you to the HDZ Club, but two replicas have been reported for its presentation. The first is the respected representative Ana Komaraic Devcic. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19429	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, you colleagues said in your debate that children should be educated and I absolutely agree with you, but I also think that we should control what our children are learning. And now I'm going to give you a concrete example. I have two children in primary school and I have to admit that I stayed very surprised as a mother seeing what our children and what texts they learn. Under the heading "Dražić B, Mom K and Dad A" my children were learning the following sentence: "Mama wrote something all day, wiped out and rolled with a cookbook, and Dad was doing a very responsible job. He came home tired, tiredest in the world. And I must admit that I remained very surprised that my children are being handed over such texts today. I think that the system of education and education should be very controlled by texts that enter the books of our founders, so children in the second grade of primary school.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19430	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, respected representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19431	Thank you, colleague Comparic. Well, I was just pointing this out and pointing it out. In fact, I may have dropped it in a row of thought, but I wanted to warn both of our textbook standards and of the control of texts, or of the control and approval of textbooks. I've been in education for years, and we've been fighting for years just to keep this line from being taught by children. When I told you about that student who really exists it's a shame to say the name then I wanted to point out that we just have to say in children that there are no such prejudices, that there are moms who have cooks and dads who are very tired at work. I could do the same, but I don't have time to tell a real-life anecdote that would confirm these words of yours not from your textbook but from one drawing of a child in kindergarten that was drawn by the family, drew by Mom and Dad and Grandpa and Grandma. But my dad's gone, and my dad was somewhere near the bottom of the paper. I'm sorry, I'll finish. At the very bottom of the paper. And when auntie was in kindergarten, she asked well, and why dad's so small, and Dad's gone. Mom works, Mom cooks, and Dad comes home and reads the paper, so I couldn't draw how he reads the paper. I mean, it's a real-life story just like with this sentence of yours. So, what I wanted to highlight from kindergarten to school, but also from the education of teachers who will write textbooks, from people who will write textbooks and from people who will approve the same textbooks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19432	Thank you, too. The next replica and respected representative of Đurjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19433	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, my colleagues, I've listened very carefully to your debate, but I've heard it all before you. And of course, I'll agree with you that education from the earliest age is the one, but in the family, of course, you can see how it behaves, so it's kind of an experience. But here it is, I'd like to tell you through your debate, and I'll ask your opinion on it, but also later on, Mr. Attorney General. I want to know how you feel about how young people who have graduated from colleges feel, mastered, doctored everything else, and suddenly disappeared competitions by expertise, but there was simply a similarity in the game. I can personally tell you from a number of experiences that they are particularly disappointed not only now but always when it comes to it, and now it has been particularly evident in this change of government. Because even public tenders have been suspended. We haven't heard from the D.A. Then I'm also interested in your opinion as to how he did, but I don't know if the D.A. called and what you think he was supposed to say when his mother came to talk to her for a job with her underage child who unfortunately had nowhere else to leave, and the employer kicked her out. She couldn't even say basic things about herself, because when he saw her with the kid, he just said go. And what I'm always on our Committee on Gender Equality, and now I'm going to say again, when it comes to discrimination, and that's domestic violence in the media usually occurs, Mr. Attorney-General of the victim's picture and these big pictures of the victim. It's usually a woman who's banged up, blue, all bloody, swollen. However, the perpetrator or bully is nowhere to be found. So once again, I appeal to all the media that since there are registers or there will be registers of paedophiles, I kindly ask that the registers of thugs in the family be established and that their big pictures are given to everyone to see. And they knew who they were dealing with around here. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19434	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica of the respected representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19435	I thank you, Mr. President. You guys asked me a whole series of questions. I'll try to answer it in a row, I've recorded it. So you asked me how those young people who are experiencing today feel when this power came to power, all this employment mostly in the state administration without competition. Well, I don't believe a bit of discouragement. And this report by the Ombudsman's staff contains information that, as far as employment and employment relations are concerned, the most complaints Excuse me. [[Adversity President: Join the esteemed MPs.]] The most objections were precisely to the occurrence of possible job creation without competition and past competitions. What will happen in the 2012 report when it is now evident. I expect that there will be some objections on the subject. The second question you asked me was about an employer who brought his mother back with a child. Well, I think in my debate, I pointed out that women are always in a difficult position, and even when they don't even talk, they just bring the child to the employer. Such examples, such examples must be constantly highlighted by us. And I'm going to go back to what, not just education, but we have to come from us, we have to go from that barrier, that very thin barrier, jump over, bridge and already say gender discrimination is one of the most difficult forms of discrimination in the field of employment. When it's sanctioned and punished, what I've already pointed out in my debate, only then do I think when it's punished and not just recorded in reports like this, when it's really punished, I think we'll only achieve success then and say that we've solved it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19436	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. Next is the club of HNS and respected representative Sonja König. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19437	Thank you very much, esteemed President, colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed occupier with his associates. Everyone in the Republic of Croatia has rights and freedoms independently of his or her sex, regardless of religion, regardless of skin colour, language, political or other definition, education, birth, social status or other characteristics. They're all equal before the law. So says our Constitution, so says many conventions that we're signatories to, but so doesn't say life, so doesn't say this report that we're discussing today. They say discrimination happens everywhere, they say discrimination happens daily. And it comes from prejudices and stereotypes, and unfortunately it's a dizzy and resilient phenomenon, and it's also spoken of by my esteemed colleague, Dunja Špoljar, and today it's true that all the colleagues who spoke before me. Because the world’s view is conditioned by our personality, life experience, and learning from family and environment under whose influence we shape our own attitudes and values, and they are quite difficult to change. That is why we need education, education, education, laws, regulations, penalties and rewards that point to socially acceptable behavior. And discrimination, i.e. disabling the exercise of certain rights to someone just because they are different or different, is not acceptable in modern democracies. In fact, it should not be acceptable in any system, any man, any human being, at least to me. Because we're all by some minority criterion. Each of us, by some standard, belongs to a minority at some point. Whether by gender or by age, or by geographical origin and ethnicity, education, sexual orientation. By different criteria, we are all minorities. And when we fight for the right of minorities and a society where everyone has an equal chance of trying to achieve all their potentials, when we fight for a society that protects the weaker we actually fight for ourselves, for our children and for generations to come. Because Croatia is a small country of limited resources and it is therefore totally unacceptable that someone's potential is not fully realized just because he was born or born in the wrong place, which is the wrong sex or faith either is not a believer or a believer or loves a person of the wrong sex, but this is still happening in our society, and only some forms, or discrimination, are reported to our defenders and defenders. Our Ombudsman estimates that one of the most important reasons why victims of discrimination do not take action to protect their rights is that, despite the fact that it has been 3 years since the entry into force of the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, Croatian case-law has not yet been developed, there is still a lack of confidence among citizens in the effectiveness of the judiciary, and we know that all long-term and expensive judicial proceedings. Our citizens are not yet sufficiently informed about their right to equal opportunities and life without discrimination so that they can achieve the same. And that is why we are joining the recommendations of the Ombudsman on the necessity of public campaigns with the aim of spreading knowledge of the rights of potential victims of discrimination, as well as the message that discrimination is unacceptable, that discriminatory behaviour must not and will not be tolerated. As politicians, we, too, have to show by our own behavior, and as politicians we will have to prove both when adopting the next budget. Because in the HNS' view, there's no excuse for human rights recession. Since the obstacles and recommendations of the Advocates are on this path and on this trail to highlight the need for systematic education on human rights at all levels and all stakeholders in the field of combating discrimination, and in particular in the judiciary and state bodies, we at the HNS club accept your report.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19438	Thanks a lot to the HNS club. And now the SDSS club and the esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19439	Mr. President, Mr. Attorney General, the esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs and counsellors. The Club of Representatives of the SDSS will support this Report of Discrimination for 2011, but I will also say on behalf of the club a few things that I think are important for this report to say. Unlike the 1990s, when the dominant forms of discrimination that existed in the Republic of Croatia, whether it was under government control or controlled by those who did not recognise the Government, the dominant form of discrimination was on an ethnic basis. And those forms of discrimination that were created under, say, umbrellas and dominant forms of discrimination which were also the dominant type of political speech, which is economic, social and territorial discrimination that they didn't see at the time, but their roots were now actually developing. Today, there is discrimination in different areas and on different grounds in Croatia. Why? I'll say on behalf of the Independent Democratic Serb Party Club some of the reasons we see it that way. First, from day to day, Croatia is increasingly a society of inequality. From day to day, Croatia is increasingly a society of unequal opportunities for young people, for old people and for middle-aged people. For young people because the assumption of getting a job means the right to work is increasingly reduced every day. For old people to be able to live on what they have earned for their century also because their pensions are getting smaller, their purchasing power is getting smaller and the assumption is for the use of social rights that society should also have. For people of working age or working at different levels. First, because labour mobility is reduced and therefore the possibility of choosing which jobs to do. Secondly, because it reduces the possibility of protection in labour law and in the labour sector. Discrimination between those working in the public sector and the private sector is obvious and therefore wants to destroy the public sector among other things so that it cannot represent the measure by which protected labour rights in the labour sector are still respected as much as possible and because they are not operating in the private sector. Discrimination on a territorial basis. It doesn't matter if you live in Zagreb or live in Zadar or live in Split or live in Knin, Donji Lapac, Korenica, Sisak or Varazdin. No, you don't have the same voting rights. The parties don't treat you equally, you don't have the same opportunities to use state administration services because the state finds you too expensive, you don't have the same access to the Offices of State Administration, the institutions of the judiciary and what's most important to you, or those who live with you especially those who are younger have no equal chance of any kind of possibility whether it's about education, whether it's about employment, whether it's about starting a family. Therefore, a country that should guarantee equal chances, which should ensure how much equality among its citizens does not succeed, does not have these instruments. And those instruments he's got, unfortunately, don't work. Legal instruments don't work. Government instruments in terms of uniform regional development are not working. Controls of media public space when there are calls for discrimination that can be heard including people sitting here in this House. Today, however, they do not belong to the main current of political parties in this House, but they are heard loudly and clearly, who are telling whom, to which members of individual minorities such as Serbs should know where they belong in Croatian society. As if by now there were not enough messages of this kind for members of the Serb community or other minorities. It's as if there weren't enough messages that weren't verbal, but also non-verbal, but now it's necessary that MPs from these benches tell them they need to know where they belong. Okay, I could say and get it to stand. But the one who doesn't think about sending such a message sends a message about himself, not about anyone else, and that the song you're singing to each other now and the order you're giving to someone else tomorrow is about you because you're the same minority just in something bigger, in something bigger, in something more serious circumstances. In other words, if we will provide ourselves with the pleasure of discriminating at home the weaker, and forget the fact that we are also weak in relation to others on the bigger scene, then we have no political brains, then we are prisoners of small pleasures, local domestic discriminatory policies that cost us dearly. That tomorrow we are the subject of discrimination as we are in the money market, in the capital market, in the market for political decisions and in the market for the political decision-making system. Adhering to a cheap story about how we're being sold from the developed West, about the system of human rights, whether we're going to meet this group and that group, etc. and to forget what is the measure, what is the measure of logic of discrimination with us, and not to worry about where as a society itself brings us tomorrow into a discriminatory position towards those who decide when we will enter the Union, under what conditions we will enter the Union. Of course, we're not worried about that. Why? Because we have our own little pleasures. Because these pleasures need to be solved if we want to create equal society and if we want to create free society. Now allow me colleagues and colleagues to say a few things about certain parts of this report, which we, of course, underestimate very well done, as is the case with the reports of the public defenders, regardless of whether it's the vacancy attorney, the arraignment attorney, the child equality lawyer or the attorney for persons with disabilities. When it comes to the employment of members of national minorities, we rarely like to boast that we have advanced minority policy, so we sitting here as your colleagues and colleagues often serve as an example that is the case. Of course, each of us can benefit from serving as an example of something good, so he certainly does not serve, not if he serves as a story for something that is not good. For example, I would not like to serve as an example of how members of any minority and then Serbian equal in the employment process when we have an Action Plan that envisions public sector employment growth, in the police, in the administration, in the judiciary. And we instead of having growth we have a fall. We fell 4.4% to 3.7%. And when it was necessary to fire and reduce and rationalise those who were surplus in the state administration 50% of them were members of national minorities. How? When their total share of employment in the state administration is negligible in the process. But it's someone who, by chance or by circumstances, we can't draw conclusions from it right now or by any other logic, has come to the conclusion that it's the simplest thing to do. Employment, unfortunately, as I've already pointed out here whether it's police or the judiciary, does not correspond, does not follow our political drive. We can have very good political co-operation in the area of the carlova County, but we must conclude that when it comes to the police sector among police officers, among political workers, there are 0.1% of Serbian community members compared to the percentage of members of the Serb community in the area. So, on the one hand, we assure ourselves, we assure the European Union that we have plans to do something, and these plans are not only not being realised, but these plans are actually stagnating. What has been achieved is now shrinking and collapsing. When it comes to housing, it is true, Mr. Public Attorney General, that for years there has been discrimination between those, between the two categories of residents. Immigrants or settlers who want to settle, for example, in Donji Lapac or in Korenica or in Knin, either from Bosnia and Herzegovina from Montenegro or from Krapina or from Varazdin. They want to settle in that area. They have conveniences. They'll get apartments and houses for free. Returnees who had apartments and tenants' rights to losing them can't get them for free. So, having an apartment in Zagreb or in Rijeka or in Karlovac, they can't even get it at the price at which everyone else bought it in '92, '93, '94, '95, '96. until it was lifted. Why? The question of development. I already said that once. People living in these areas, as I have been told by the Commissioner of the Municipality of Korenica who is normally from the Croatian Democratic Community, I don't know if the more Commissioner at that age was, a lot of time has been told by Mr. Pupovac to anyone who lives here in the morning should show 100 marks. It is not a man who lives in these areas that is so far from how people live 30 km north of Zagreb or 30 km west of Zagreb or 30 km east of Zagreb. And that was created by the state. That inequality was created by the state. It was neither created by private, nor created by people who live there with their unhappiness but de facto created conditions. And the state can remove them. They will not be removed by any market, will not be removed by any invitation to the absence of state intervention. On the contrary, if that doesn't happen, then those spaces will be just as useful as they were since '91. '95. Thus, they will serve only those to whom they must serve, not in the interest of the common good, and not those who live or want to live in that area. As far as the media is concerned, Mr. Vice President, I'm about to finish, it's true on the forums of different portals there are calls for discrimination. If it seems from major media such as HRT by some of our fellow MPs, then it's no wonder what it looks like on forums where people think that between these forums and their kitchens or their toilets there's no difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19440	I have to ask you, we're a minute longer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19441	I'll pay you back that minute, Mr. Vice President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19442	Thank you very much. At your presentation we have one replica, the distinguished representative of Mrs. Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19443	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Pupovac is very wrong to me when you're trying to impose guilt on all of us that it's all our fault that's happening. And then you say it's hard to live in places. Do you think it's more difficult to live in the Korčula or in our remote islands where young people also have no perspective, where young people also have to leave islands for a better life? Secondly, there are some places where Serbs are actually in a better position than the domicile population, which is your Vukovar. In Vukovar, how many Serbs are in the police? Serbs live in Serbia, work in Croatia. And it doesn't happen anywhere in the world to live in one country, you work in another, especially state business. And secondly, in the government of the Republic of Croatia, there have never been more Serbs than the 1980s. Besides, you've been in power for eight years, why haven't you worked for better treatment not only for Serbs but for all minority nations? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19444	Thank you very much. Answer, Your Honor, Mr. Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19445	Well, I'm not sure I should answer, but since I've already answered my word, then I'll tell you. I have people on the islands whether it's Hvar, Korčula, Long Island, Molat, Silba or any other island on the heart as those living in Lapca. The only difference between them is that they have their 4 months when they have a chance to make money, and those in Lapca don't have their 4 days. And that's how much I dared talk about those who didn't have four days to earn, and I didn't want to underestimate those who had the chance to earn four months. I'd normally like to work all 12 months. And if you want me to work with you on having all 12 months of colleagues, Rose, I'm absolutely at your disposal. And as for the service, the state service, you know, I'm the last of those who think that working in the state services where members of the people I've represented for centuries have played a certain role in the greatest happiness. If they were in private business, not police officers and border guards, then they'd certainly be in a different situation than they are now. This is just how I warn of the unnatural state that in the environments that are multiethnic, there are no members of the police force that would reflect that multiethnicity. You were in Canada, you belonged to a minority yourself, you were fortunately an active civil servant in the state service, and you should understand for yourself how much this could mean for your community and for the country where you lived. And I have no other logic than that logic that you've been through in one of your previous lives. And I suggest we defend this life, no less valuable than the one you left in Canada. And you'd like to probably have it here in Croatia, as I would like.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19446	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. She is the first to be respected representative of Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19447	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Attorney General, with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. I accept the report on the occurrences of discrimination and, of course, your intermediate role between Parliament and citizens. We have seen various examples of discrimination from the discussions of my predecessors and predecessors, and I will not talk about the phenomenon of either legal regulation or in the display of your application procedures, but I would like to single out a few cases that remain in fact with the question of whether next year will appear because it seems to me to be working more. This is the following: you state that the most numerous complaints in the field of labour and employment and the discriminatory practice of employers in trade are. And that's right. We all actually know without reporting these very often that there are such complaints. This is, of course, women over 50 years old, meaning women over 50 years old. So that's multiple discrimination. It's also about sometimes false pains. And now I'm worried about how to solve fake illnesses. There is an instrument to control the justification of sickness, but I don't know how much it's possible to implement it, are we entering patients' rights, are we entering the work of a doctor? It's one area I'm not sure how we're going to be able to solve, or are we going to have more and more applications for this kind of discrimination in the future because of possible false illnesses? Another thing I would also point out is the problem in the education system when it comes to children with mental health problems or developmental difficulties. This also applies to primary schooling, but also to preschool, or kindergarten group. There is a lack of reasonable adaptation of space, equipment, content, access to children with difficulties and also at preschool age, in fact, when all should have the same conditions, of course, that this all depends on local self-government, which actually has to solve things very often in infrastructure, solve these problems and also by introducing assistance institutes in the follow-up, which is really also relevant to local self-government. I'd like to commend that in the report we have a name for research, research... And gong. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is actually an example of how through civil society, actually how civil society can help the state structures that we had just before in the Civil Society Report. The survey was political literacy and views on Croatia's accession to the European Union. However, defeating data is that 23% of high school students believe that men and women are different, so their role in the family should be different. Then 45% think that most jobs can be divided into more suitable women and men, and 40% consider homosexuality to be some kind of disease. These studies, i.e. research analysis, show that there are stereotypes and prejudices on the labour market and, of course, all of this forms a employment policy. Also, stereotypes and prejudice are visible from the social distance study. In fact, it is important to stress that a society that is homogeneous in the cultural, religious and valuable aspect must further reflect on the protection of its minorities, ethnic, religious, or sexual, or develop tolerance and pluralism of thinking. Can your colleagues be a little quieter? Thank you very much. So we're actually getting to what's important right now. This report is actually a consequence, and we need to examine where the cause of general discrimination is and then we come to actually be tolerance and openness to others and to other opinions and ideas is actually a matter of education. Values, attitudes, and habits are created in the youngest years when a person is actually most bred, and this kind of education, someone moves the boundaries. First it's thought to be up to five years. But I'll say for taking some attitudes, having opinions about life that's 16 years of life. When we can actually talk about the person who has most of his basic values, attitudes and habits formed and we can even say cemented. I am pleased to point out, and my colleague previously said that civil education is being introduced, which is unlike the policy and economy that used to be, but only in the fourth grade of high school is it located in lower secondary school or primary school. Thus, when we see health - related health education with the whole definition of civil education, we should actually be dealing with the development of a spiritual part, or tolerance that we should actually work on most. Here in the end I'd say it's actually a school, why is it important to raise, why is it important to learn how to grow up in tolerance? It is because the school is the last place where we can influence, for there is an experience, that is, life. But we can't say that we can learn tolerance afterwards. And that's why someone today has said impatience out of ignorance to us, so we as politicians and as advocates and in general as those who participate in executive government anywhere in local or regional self-government must think about it and it must be that our impatience from ignorance does not exist. So we need you to be who we're gonna work on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19448	Thank you very much. The next presentation will be the distinguished representative of Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19449	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Ombudsman with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. The law on the repression of discrimination has been in force for three years, and we can say that it has greatly contributed to the recognition of the forms of discrimination and their application, but unfortunately not to their elimination. In fact, if we look at the data from this report and we'll see that there's still a lot of discrimination and unfortunately it's still the most discriminatory by nationality, and then gender, age and faith. So, when it comes to the basics of discrimination, nothing has changed in Croatia for decades. Nationality, gender, age and religion are traditional grounds for discrimination. Very often here we colleagues and colleagues here in the Assembly as public persons in our discussions demonstrate that we do not actually have that one awareness of the weight of spoken words, so we use any inappropriate expressions to members of endangered groups of society. Let us remember how many times we heard the word gay in this assembly, showing national intolerance and gender inequality. Of us who should be an example of tolerance and respect for other and different dignity, especially when we have sworn to the Constitution, and the Constitution protects human rights as a fundamental value. Furthermore, I would like to point out to what extent the recent economic situation is a source of discrimination. I'll start with a paradox. So there are more and more Croatian citizens who are in a difficult material situation and as if that were all that, the fact itself is not difficult enough to further deny them some rights instead of helping them. It is precisely because of the unfavourable economic situation and the state is tightening its belt, cutting costs especially in the area of public service, and yet it is the most affected by the most vulnerable groups of companies that use these public services, therefore the most harmful are again to the poor, unemployed, sick and elderly. So the difficult economic situation is the source of many forms of discrimination. A lack of property rather than increasing solidarity, that one understanding among people, it is just the opposite of completely dodging it. We're witnessing a complete deficit of empathy, we're witnessing a terrifying insolence, selfishness. The important thing is that we're spared evil, and since it's less important to others, it's actually less important to us. The most reported cases of discrimination continue in the field of work. However, although there are most of the reported cases, they do not, in my opinion, reflect the true state of affairs. Reported cases are just the tip of that one iceberg. A far larger number of cases are hidden underwater, under the sea. remains unreported. The reason for not reporting is fear, fear of losing a job, and of not being able to find another job. So people keep their mouths shut and put up with it. Obviously, the difficult economic situation raises the threshold of tolerance, and already several speakers before me have spoken of it in such a way, so the threshold of tolerance for discrimination is raised. It's just evil, I'm going to say under quotes, "it's easier to endure," in the absence of an election, it's becoming acceptable. In fact, the most difficult cumulative consequence of the economic crisis is high unemployment. Right now in Croatia, losing a job is the easiest thing to do, and getting a job is absolutely the hardest. And this very existence of a large number of unemployed and one huge reserve labour force gives for the right part of the employers, so part of the employers to discriminate on their employees in a wide variety of ways and to blackmail them. You're asking for your rights to go, there's dozens of those who can't wait to take your place and they won't ask for any rights. In this context, it is very indicative that among the reported cases of discrimination, the highest number of public services and institutions is. The question is, why is that? Of course, this is to some extent conditioned by the fact that these employees are more educated in recognising discrimination. But what is more important is that they are more free to report discrimination because their employer is an institution, so the employer is abstract and employees dare to register. When the employer is a private company or, for example, a craftsman’s shop, so a specific person, discrimination is not reported because the package’s application usually includes cancellation. The economic crisis raises the threshold of tolerance not only in the world of work but also in the family. How many bad marriages survive just because spouses cannot live apart, they cannot afford to live separately each for themselves because of high debts, high directing, high child support costs. So, trouble actually forces them to stay and live together. I am personally convinced that the difficult economic situation is to blame for another negative trend that I would like to say a few words about. In fact, I think she's the most important cause of stagnation, and I'd say a certain one is the retardation in the political engagement of women. The crisis has simply stopped this rising trend in women's political engagement. They are the biggest victims of the economic crisis because more often than men lose their jobs, and on the other hand, they fall on their backs and a proportionally higher burden of family feeding. And in the end, I'm going to say that yesterday we were talking about the National Strategy to stop drug abuse, so we agreed, which is not often how important it is for the prevention of drug abuse and the education of young people, young generations. When it comes to discrimination, youth education is equally important. In fact, if 23% of our high school students feel that men and women are different, so it is necessary to distinguish their roles in the family, if as many as 45, so each other, it is clear that most jobs can be divided into those that are more suitable to women and to those who are more suitable to men, and if, therefore, 45% think that homosexuality is a kind of disease then it is clear that we have a great job of youth education in order to change these stereotype attitudes because they are the source of both present and future discrimination. That is why today I want to highlight the value and importance of introducing health and civic education into primary and secondary schools. Of course, with the requirement that this education be conducted by educated, truly educated teachers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19450	Thank you very much. We have one replica, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19451	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues, you also spoke of the words that are here, let's say the hard words and I personally agree with you that some synonyms could be found that would be more polite or appropriate. But when you talk about those words that are kind of discriminated against by the vulnerable and not vulnerable, I don't even know groups, then you must also remember that you have never responded or thought about the discrimination of the entire Croatian people, the whole people, who are called paradoxal. You've never responded to this, to the discrimination against the defenders when it's said that the state was created by chance and by chance. You've never responded to a government vice president saying he's saving on his cell phone to pay for electricity. You've never responded to a man with a driver's record pushing for a edge when passing driver's exams. So, give me some speeches. You've never responded to the fact that when that same man proclaims peasants as parasites. I don't know if they're all vulnerable to all groups or invulnerable. You can judge that for yourself. But give and make such things known in your discussions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19452	Thank you very much. The distinguished representative Nadica Jelash will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19453	Comrade Grubisic, do not argue with certain groups of Croatian society. So, when it comes to defenders, there is no discrimination against the defenders. We haven't diminished any defense rights. So, in the 2012 budget that we first passed in this mandate, nor for the kuna were the funds for the defenders reduced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19454	Thank you very much. We've finished the debate. And then I'd like to conclude a debate on this agenda point.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19455	Report on the occurrences of discrimination for 2011 The debate on the report is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the occurrences of discrimination for 2011 is accepted". By raising our hands, may we please state who is to suggest a conclusion? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you. I find that the majority of the 119 votes for and 5 abstentions have reached the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19456	However, we move to the next point, which is - Report on the work of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War 2011 Reporter is the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War based on Article 9. Law on the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War. You've received the material. The government of the Republic of Croatia has delivered an opinion that you also have. The debate was conducted by the Committee on War Veterans and the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You also received reports at the session. Would the applicant like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Here you are, Professor Ante Nazor, Director of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19457	I would like to thank Mr. Chairman of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed MPs and MPs. I don't have to repeat everything we've listed in the comprehensive and summary version here. The only thing I would like to highlight is some details and some information that I find very important in view of what is said about them today in the Croatian public and the lack of data through the media above all, unfortunately less through scientific publications that do not cause the necessary media attention. I would just like to add that according to this Report, the centre is richer for another doctor of science and that in a recent period we will have a few more sciences which will open and the possibility that we should activate that Scientific Research Department within the centre and stress that the primary task of the centre is the collection and research of materials but that our obligation is also to interpret this material in some way and on the basis of archival material we talk about what happened in the 1990s in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and in the neighbourhood. From the data we reported, you saw that from year to year our archive is richer as we've seen the videos with so many image records. We continue to sort out hundreds of thousands of pages of Republika Srpska documents and simultaneously collect new data. According to the suggestions during last report, our center should be promoted and in foreign languages we can notice that compared to last year we are richer with three new editions in mostly English. We also have a Croatian war poster printed in English, German and Croatian. The large Serbian aggression against the Republic of Croatia in the 1990s is bilingual. The war in Western Slavonia and photo monograph is also bilingual so that we have listened to the advice and consider it justified and we believe that what happened in Croatia should be spoken clearly abroad. What I would like to emphasise is not particularly highlighted in our report, and it is no longer said in the public or in this esteemed House that we had a lecture very shaken by Mr. Bela Tonkovic and Stjepan Skenderovic about what was going on in Vojvodina during the Homeland War, but also after that. Unfortunately, there is little talk of this in Croatia, banishment, Croatian suffering, Croatian killings are almost undetected in Croatia. Just as recently we received information about something that surprised me, which is that, apart from the camps that were on the territory of the Republic of Serbia, we learned that the people who were imprisoned were ruthlessly robbed. I'll just tell you one piece of information that a person named Peter Lovrić in a column has been taken away from all of his life's assets, 50,000 German marks, gold, etc. We have confirmation of that, we have documents. Of course, the center can't deal with what's been further. But I would like to stress that one whole category of people who are victims of the Homeland War cannot exercise their rights because they simply are not recognised, and no one in Croatia cares about it. We've even got data downtown on that. So these are in the right sense the words of the robbery of the population. I come from the Dubrovnik area. I thank you for postponing this point of ours so that I may participate in this report. I come with one piece of information about a bloody battlefield that is practically neglected in Croatia as well. Not many people know it's been since April of '92. By the end of the tenth month in southern Croatia, heavy fights were fought, that about 350 boys were killed, according to reports. It went one step at a time, knocked on a hammer, stone at a rock. So, every step of the Croatian south is soaked in blood and unfortunately, it's a little known. It's very important to talk about because it's the south battlefield of '92. The year was also crucial for the defence of Bosnia and Herzegovina, which is also said little in Croatia, about the role of Croatia and Croatia in defence of the area. Since April of the month in the area of Bosnia Posavina, the Lithuanian battlefield, down from Neum towards the south around Mostar, thanks to the Croatian forces, Serbian aggression has been halted in that area and I think it should be made very clear since we have received a number of documents from that space. After all, you have the books of General Praljko, which state these documents. I think the Croatian public is following the media very badly. Of course, in our work, we've also given special attention to the military-raid relief operation "Storm". In fact, I do not have much to add to what has already been said in the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts Report. They also had one review of Operation Storm and The Hague's verdicts themselves. I can only repeat that "Storm" was not a criminal enterprise, that there was no excessive shelling and non-selective and that generals who commanded Croatian forces were not only military but also police not criminals. We deeply sympathise with all the victims that were committed in the Storm. We believe that every crime should be prosecuted, but very clearly we must distinguish between what incidents are and what is a systematic plan. Justice simply cannot be built on these injustices, and I think it should be made clear. As a scientist, hundreds of documents can be made available, above all by the Serbian institutions who confirm it. If there's any further explanation, I'd be happy to do it. Our center has been working for six years on the death list of victims of the Homeland War. Regardless of religious and national belongings, we list everything we can list and everything we have in the documents, along with the Ministry of Government of the Republic of Croatia. I believe we're about to finish that list, we can't finish it ourselves, but with very good cooperation with the Department of Defense, with the Department of Detained and Missing, I think we're at the end of it all. What's special about our center is that we have a list of the dead in the occupied area of the Republic of Croatia. By the end of 2011, we had listed 5182 people killed in the area and we believe it is very important to know what were the circumstances of the death. What I would like to emphasize as a special feature of our center is field work. As a historian who deals with modern history, I simply cannot allow myself to talk about history and events of the Homeland War on the basis of reports, newspaper records. It is necessary to go to the field, to see the conditions in which certain events took place and to talk to direct participants of the event. Believe me, my picture of events in BiH from the one I had 15 years ago based only on newspaper articles is quite different now that I've been through hundreds and thousands of documents and when I've passed that area practically from Orasje over the middle of Bosnia and Herzegovina to Mostar is a completely different picture when you hear direct participants and you really look at what the documents say and what all the data is. The biggest task of our center, most of the time, is to create publishing activity. However, I believe that it is necessary and that our center is recognized for it. I especially stress that series of Republic of Serbia – the documents of the Republika Srpska region where we publish two books each year. One is military implementation documents, the other are the political bodies of the Republika Srpska region and I think that when you compare chronologically, when you compare the most important decisions of the Republika Srpska body that you can understand best what really happened in Croatia in the 1990s. Our center is open to co-operation with all scientific institutions. We have excellent cooperation with scientific institutions such as the Croatian Institute of History, we are also open to NGOs. With one of them, we have had intensive cooperation in the collection of lists of those killed in the occupied area, we have also submitted certain data, but unfortunately this cooperation is not continued due to incorrect behaviour and presentation of these data. In any case, at all times, our centre is open to public co-operation, the only thing we want is for this cooperation to be based on scientific criteria and that's the only condition we put before anyone we work with. I don't think there's any need to go any further. I repeat our report, we have a shorter and more extensive version, and I am prepared to ask all questions if we need to answer here and explain them. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19458	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? On behalf of the Committee on War Veterans, honourable representative Josip Djakic. And I'm sorry, one apology. There was a replica I didn't register. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19459	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, on the replica, I was offered this comment of work, so it is said that here we see it and ourselves under the monument of Ban Jelačić here in Jelačić's flower square, and in connection with the 20th anniversary of the liberation of the Croatian south. Which is very nice, there's a sign, right? Unfortunately, I think individuals thought of it here and there even though we should mark it much more significant and in the Croatian north not only in the Croatian south. But you spoke at the same time about this war in the Croatian south that was linked to certain movements, military actions, and on BiH territory, that is, to be specific and I must remind you that it is unfortunately, and you mentioned Posavina, at the same time, co-ciding the fall of Bosnia's Posavina on 8 October '92. It was definitely the fall of the Bosnian Ship as the last place held by the HVO, actually the Croats of the Bosnian Posavina. That's it. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19460	Thank you very much. Here, then, on behalf of the Committee on War Veterans, the respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19461	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian War Veterans Committee at its 3rd session held on 24 May 2012 discussed the report on the work of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of Homeland War 2011 which was in line with the provisions of Article 9. Law on the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War, "National Journal" 178/04 delivered by the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War by act of 11 April 2012. According to the director of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre of the Homeland War, the centre worked in 2011 to collect and protect archive materials from the Homeland War, to investigate and process requests received from state and international institutions, bilingual editions from the Homeland War and to produce monographs and books, to hold exhibitions with the topic of the Homeland War, to continue to invest in the education of employees of the Centre and to visit places of major events from the Homeland War and direct contact with participants of the event. The total revenue of the centre in 2011 was 3 million 511 thousand 867 kuna, expenditures 3 million 598 thousand 770 kuna. The funds that the centre receives from the budget are growing from year to year, unfortunately, but are sufficient to carry out the tasks set, and it is necessary to highlight the lack of equal treatment and disproportionateness in the presentation of data and facts by the media. In the case of court proceedings and proceedings against our generals in The Hague and in the war in neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina, their non-consultation with sources and documentation. The members of the Committee in the debate praised both the report and the work of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War, and stressed that the centre is the strongest institution in the Republic of Croatia that deals with the research and presentation of the Homeland War. For his further successful work, it is also necessary to provide him with sufficient resources. The hyperinflation of books is highlighted both in memoirs and in the private edition without the use of data from the centre, and the need to create a systematic encyclopedia about the Homeland War. The ultimate goal of the centre is to make lexicons of the Homeland War, but the prerequisite for this is to build materials and documentation for which it takes some time. After the debate was held, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the conclusion that this report on the work of the Croatian Memorial and Documentary Centre for the Homeland War for 2011. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19462	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, distinguished representative Jasen Mesic. Oh, no? No, good. Nothing. Thank you very much. So the boards won't show up about it anymore. So we're going to a club debate. The first will be the Croatian Labour Club and will be spoken by distinguished representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19463	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Nazor. Now, if anyone asks what it is, these are the books on the Homeland War that the Ministry of Culture declared as a ham, and then we'll explain why. First of all, Croatian Labourists – the party of work support the good noble work of our center. The Croatian Memorial-documentation centre of the Homeland War justified its existence. All that you have stated and stated by your colleague, the Committee president should not be repeated before. It is absolutely certain that the Croatian government, that this authority should support what is missing from Croatia, and that Croatia lacks full consent to the encyclopedia of the Homeland War. Not a systematic encyclopedia as reported in the report, because the encyclopedia assumes in the very word encyclopaedia there is also the concept of systematicity. And we certainly need a lexicon about the Homeland War. 20 years after or 17 years after the time is and we think we should have money for that. I would now like to support Mr. Nazor's report and support the work of the center. And now I'd only ask a few questions, so I believe Mr. Nazor will answer those questions, too. Maybe they're indirectly and they're being set up for someone else. As we're really treating the Homeland War, it shows exactly this case, these books I brought in. The first one's not, it's not in this line. The first book is the author of Mr. Nazor. The rest of the books aren't everything, they're all books of General Free Praljko. We in Croatia, especially in politics, are consistent with inconsistencies. How many times we've heard in this House of Commons about someone wanting to retaliate the Homeland War, that the left or right side treats the Homeland War in an unworthy way. However, one of the biggest violations, fouls or whatever to call it, is exactly what happened during HDZ rule. 18 books by Mr. General Slobodan Praljak, it is 17 books of fact partly about the Homeland War, and in part about the participation, i.e. the assistance of Croatia BiH. The first book is how the old bridge was shot down where it was proven that the Croats did not tear down the old bridge in Mostar, with Mr. General Slobodan Praljak also won a court in which it was said that the old bridge was not broken. But even here, even in the Parliament, it was known to be heard 100 times or 1000 times the repeated lie about it being that the Croats had knocked down the old bridge. All the other books that all of the parliamentary representatives had the opportunity to gain in their toots The Ministry of Culture said, "It is from all of this that the controversial editions do not have professional, scientific, artistic, cultural and educational content, so it is not about books but about brochures." So these are the brochures. The brochures are mostly the ads that come to your mailboxes with less than 49 pages or pornographic, mostly pornographic content, or advertising or pornographic content. So I'm now asking Mr. Honorable Nazor if this is a ham, is this pornography, is this a testimony to the Homeland War of Pornography and Sund? This was not said by any parliamentary representative at the bar, this was not even said by anyone in the debate, so it might be allowed to have an opinion, this opinion was given by the Ministry of Culture. The new Ministry of Culture did not correct the mistake but asked the author of the book to seek re-correction, not an incorrect allegation, of the great sin of the former Ministry of Culture. In these 18 books, when the testimonies are spilled, which seems to me to be Mr. Nazor and the center part of it, and he's built something, and he's won most of it. If so, or if he took even, if he did not buy it, if Mr. Slobodan Praljak has given the building to which it was served explain whether it takes your center pornographic content. I've been waiting a few months for a chance to talk about this big scandal here at the Parliament speaker to see what kind of hypocrites we really are. And what we actually think and how we treat the Homeland War. So I'd like to ask all the colleagues who are going to discuss this after me because this is an official document and one and the other ministry, no one has done anything but write in the media. This documentation was visited by 5 million visitors from 140 countries from the world by 2012 on websites. Very much, they serve him and the Chinese. There were 250 million clicks, and then someone was probably afraid that as soon as they visited those sites, it might be a ham and it might be pornography. Mr. Slobodan Praljak is a general, Croatian general, a participant in the Homeland War who certainly did not deserve such treatment. What he wrote in these books are facts, as he says facts, facts and facts. No one has challenged these facts, these facts are not spoken of, many other irrelevant things are spoken of. Once again, Mr. Nazor, we support your work, and I'd like you to read about these documents as well. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19464	Thank you very much. Here's to this exhibit we have three replicas. The first is the distinguished representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19465	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I owe a replica to my esteemed colleague Vuksic since the Ministry of Culture was mentioned here, and for many years in that ministry I worked from trainees to ministers and I would like to say that the Ministry of Culture does not declare anything a ham. So there's two types, two ways to finance books. It's one thing to encourage, and the other is a ransom. Every year, thousands of titles appear. I can only tell you that in the council that decides on this and which makes a proposal to the Minister that they were really represented by people who know this profession very well, among other things, the current minister was a member of that council for a time. That also a lot of books about the Homeland War were bought or that their work was supported. I can't talk about a specific case for you because simply thousands of cases every year are impossible to know. In this way it turns out that the Ministry of Culture never helped or bought any books from the Homeland War, and that's not true. The Ministry of Culture has also been a parent ministry, a key ministry that has also helped establish the Homeland War Memorial Documentation Centre. Therefore, with an absoluteity for this particular area. I had to replicate it. It's not the culture minister who decides something and says it's a ham and... That's for sure... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Nor has it ever been the Ministry of Culture since I remember, despite the fact that I have not always been responsible for this council, or this publishing administration. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I'm telling you, the Ministry of Culture either buys out or helps finance publishers to issue some projects. So it doesn't speak to other qualifications. The fact is that there can be a particular argument in the refusal which says that the Council's opinion has not been satisfied. They're people with a name and a last name. It's not the institution of the Ministry of Culture. These are people with a name and a last name who, in the vast majority of cases, are very professional and that's my personal opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19466	Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19467	I'm happy to answer. Mr. Mesic, Mr. Praljak has asked the opinion and the Ministry of Finance to consider whether it is a book or not for support, but for tax purposes. On the basis of the ministry's ruling, Mr. Praljak should pay 700 thousand and 600 and some thousand kuna taxes. No money was asked for. It was merely a request for judgment whether it was a book or a ham, or a brochure. It was estimated that it was a brochure, that it had no scientific character, that it had no character to characterize it with a book. Thus, neither the purchase of all the books, the whole commission is freely distributed worldwide to all MPs in all parliaments from America to Asia. So no one asked for money. I was just asking if it was a book or not. The Ministry whose seal was above who was judging I don't know, I didn't even call you that it was your decision to make. First of all, it's an institution no matter who's in power. It is an institution of the Croatian state that has declared books, a testimony in the Homeland War that they are not books. This is a book, this is a book where documents are also documents, and this is not a book. Whether it's a name and a last name or something. Did he say, we talk all the time about assuming innocence. I don't know what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19468	Thank you very much. The next call came a respected representative of Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19469	Comrade Vuksic, I think you've got something wrong. I mean, in the media the past two months, there's really been speculation going this way that you're saying it, I mean, first of all, because someone's been deliberately releasing information that's trying to bring a mix-up. Namely, the Ministry of Culture and no other ministry is an institution that determines whether it is a book or not. Namely, there is one single reference address which issues in the Republic of Croatia the markings that certain publications receive to be considered books, not propaganda material, marketing type brochures or something else. They're notorial, so-called. ASBM or International standard book number. That's the first one. The second is also the famous CIP, or etalogization in publication. Publications that do not have these two numbers, which are awarded exclusively by the National and University Library in the Republic of Croatia. By definition, they're not considered books. That's why it's the key to this discussion which of these publications has cataloging numbers, which it doesn't have. And that's not a matter that cares about either ministry or the public, but only the publishers. When we talk about specific editions, there are probably people who consider these editions to be bad or trendy. I also received them as a representative at the Croatian Parliament more or less. And I think that they have exceptional value because most of them bring a large amount of original building that today or tomorrow is actually a source of information that can be quality scientific whether it's historians or some other scientists to process and publish perhaps in some other form. The value of these publications is in the original structure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19470	Thank you very much. We have a reply to the replica of representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19471	Comrade Beus, first of all, I'm not encouraged by the newspaper's writings, but by the documents I have here. So I know what I'm talking about. The other thing is, these books are and I have this photocopyed in the National and University Library as a construction, as a building that studies the Homeland War. I'm not mistaken. Even this time, the press isn't what you want. No one's wrong. He wants to lead us astray. And I'm talking about one mistake that we can fix. We're not accusing anyone. I have no right to do that. I'm just talking about the mistake and the attitude towards the people who were in the Homeland War and the structure of the Homeland War. Nothing else. And I don't want to accuse Mr. Mesic of anything. Let's correct the mistake.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19472	Thank you very much. And finally a replica of distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19473	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Vuksic, listening to you, I'm also going to say that I've been through and read most of these books, I'd say. It is with certainty that those books, since they clearly contain copies of orders, original orders that were in Bosnia and Herzegovina by the Croatian Council of Defence, including the original orders of the Chief of Staff of the Croatian Army, as well as the original maps of the directions of the HVO attack, the Croatian forces according to the agreements and also the Bosniak forces that fought in that area, and their commanding few who speak of who did what, as he commanded, whether they applied all the standards used in civilised wars and if war can be called a civilization's work at all. I believe that this mistake that has been submerged to someone I don't know for what time and for which the minister to have been rated as a brochure of these valuable documents and books written by Praljak, I would say General Praljak is also professional in times, documents, operations and events he built in these books and needed at least help with this way to get rid of taxes and to qualify as books and as original documents and citizens from the Homeland War that must not be subject to taxation. I therefore think that the originals, which are in them, are the orders, images of events and topographic maps that are of military importance about operations and works that are led on BiH territory.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19474	Thank you very much. Replication response by representative Branko Vukšić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19475	Mr. Djakic should only mention that there were dozens of people working alongside Mr. Praljko who were on the battlefield, so this is about dozens of people who worked professionally and dozens of people who worked volunteerly, about people who brought testimonies. All this stuff that, all the documents, there's no comment here, these are just documents so the book can't be trendy. These aren't trendy books, these are testimonies, these are documents. So it can't be a brochure. And it's a big mistake and let's correct the mistake.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19476	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, we will be approached by a distinguished representative, Ivica Mandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19477	Thank you very much, Vice President, Mr. Director of the Centre, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the debate that best shows that this centre is rightly established and that this centre has the task of trying to solve and give the right answers based on scientific scientific research. The 2011 report itself, which is well supported both in the summary and in this broad section, would fully support this report and commend all those working on this report. The HNS Club would also have a number of proposals that we think might raise quality and make the truths about the Homeland War more clear, more accessible, especially in the media, especially on Croatian public television. We believe that part of the scientific research carried out by the Documentation Centre certainly deserves more attention from the Croatian public. What we think in the HNS club is that, apart from publishing activities, 15 or 18 years after the Homeland War, it's more valuable to collect buildings, then systematize these buildings, and then explore them. What is particularly important is that the defensive Homeland War and the causes of the Homeland War should be sought about the late 1980s and early 1990s, in order to make understanding of the Homeland War clearer and more acceptable. So in the part of research and data collection, it should definitely end up being about events in the late '80s and early '90s. What we in HNS particularly point out is that these are important and sensitive research, collection, and in particular the printing of certain publications, here I will say the book, that they must be supported by real data and that the centre in its research work should not have any restrictions on any subject, because only true data, accurate data that are justified can be provided for generations in the Republic of Croatia that with great pride we remember the Homeland War. Why are we stressing this? Because we're afraid any associations and organizations in neighbouring countries would not compromise the Homeland War and manipulate the public with certain unverified data. That is why we support the research work of the center of the Homeland War, which will give the real truth and the real security during which it comes. What should also always be stressed and pointed out that the Homeland War for the first time in the history of the Croatian people almost had a consensus of all relevant and political, ruling structures of society. So, the entire Croatian people. I think it should not be forgotten, that it should be proud to point out that the Croatian people have defended themselves with their unity and therefore deserves to have true truths and real foundations proven on a professional and scientific basis. This is exactly why our country needed this center without any reservations, perhaps even before now. What would point out in particular is that you should probably have the gentlemen in the centre collected enough data for special groups in Croatian society. Let's just say the question of child loss in the Homeland War because it shows how much the weight of the attack on the Republic of Croatia is, then especially, sensitively raped women in the Homeland War, that such publications may, with their themes, be more sensitizing to the public than any other subject. And that these are topics that are certainly going to occupy the public in another way. I'm here to say that these research must be primarily based on facts, on truth and on scientific basis. I am also pleased that the distinguished director of the centre also mentioned Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. There we can be satisfied with the presentation of part of the Croatian Corps that lives in the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Here I would particularly stress on Croatians outside Croatia who are minority in neighbouring Republic of Serbia i.e. in Vojvodina and Sreme and their disaster and their sacrifice. Out of property, killing, persecution, I believe that this segment should also be processed in due course when conditions are obtained and published. What we also consider to be a esteemed field work in the HNS and all of this in order that one part of this centre and part of the employees should certainly have their seat in the town of Vukovar. Because in the city of Vukovar the truth about the Homeland War is much clearer and much more acceptable than in any other city in the Republic of Croatia. I don't want to share the contributions of certain cities here, but I believe that the city of Vukovar is one of the symbols of the defence of the Republic of Croatia and that is why I believe, especially in the HNS, that one part of this centre should be located in the city of Vukovar. Normally, if there is a possibility that from the existing frames that are attached to the spaces below Knin, Dubrovnik would also be good because these people would certainly collect much more information on the ground. As hard as the center has tried, and the community has not yet written and investigated everything. What goes into the press must satisfy it top-of-the-line because something that goes uncontrollably or that goes incorrectly into the media is very difficult to fix. That's why I'm saying that all information that goes towards the public must be thoroughly verified. We as a club of HNS welcome the work of the centre, welcome this report, and we would like to have some of these results in the following reports as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19478	Thank you very much. The position of the SDP club will be presented by the distinguished representative Josip Bencic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19479	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Director, colleagues and fellow MPs. Report, right at the start of the report, let me say that the SDP club will support this report for a number of reasons. First of all, the presentation of the report itself is at an envious level. In the first row, because my colleagues may not have talked about it, so other than this part where they say what the Memorial Documentary Center did we have a nice display and financial business. No matter what I agree here with colleagues who say that the 3.5 million kunas are insufficient, I also think they are, but I am glad that this report is on some 100 pages and where it is found that the weaknesses and irregularities that are somehow still have them, but do not affect the legitimate, purposeful and meaningful use of funds. What I would especially like to commend here, and what we rarely see here in the Croatian Parliament when talking about some financial reports The Memorial centre has a plan to remove weaknesses and irregularities with a list of the necessary activities and the expected date of removal of weaknesses and observed irregularities. Also, in this second part of preparing for this debate, I noticed that the centre was actually founded in 2005 when it was appointed V.D. Director, and the beginning of work is 2006. Namely, it's quite important when we talk about the results of this center's work. Because I think he's relatively late founded. Relatively late because we all know that the Homeland War ended in '95. the year, and that the centre was founded after 10 years and 11 years, respectively. And when we talk about the results of this center, I think we should look at it through the prism of this relatively late draft. Late why? Because because of the very meaning of the Homeland War in the perception of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, I myself am a volunteer of the Homeland War and I am always interested and sensitized when the story of the events from 1991 to 1995 shows this previous discussion. So there's a lot of open questions that haven't been solved yet, even though it's been 17 years since the war. And it will reopen if we don't approach them in the right way. Namely, the report itself shows that the centre is recognized as an important scientific institution for the study of the Homeland War which I particularly appreciate, and as such in its activities primarily through archival and publishing activity an important factor in interpreting the meaning and roles of the Homeland War both abroad and abroad. I particularly welcome the publication of documents of memoirs in foreign languages. Here I would give little meaning to these documents published in a foreign language both in themes and in presentation mode. 'Cause that's pretty important. I don't think we've done that well so far when we've spoken to, say, Europe or when we've spoken beyond these limits. And on that principal should... So I think it's a bit of a waste of time these ten years, but we're hoping to make up for some kind of increased engagement of the employees themselves anyway. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The report expressed the need to increase the number of employees needed in view of the size of the business. I'm sorry you didn't tell the principal about how many we needed to discuss it. You can see how many employees there are, but you can't tell by the size of the job how many more employees you need. Well, if we can at least talk about it in the next report. Here are my predecessors, and I will especially highlight the importance of scientific approach when interpreting certain events from the Homeland War. Namely, you are all witnesses that at every newsstand where we buy daily press, we have a real flood of books and books. Now I see they're not books. But, well, I'll call them books and books, as I say from 9 to 99 kuna, which is about the issues of the Homeland War. Some of my truths go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on. With their approach to the subject, these are mostly personal sightings. Often, they are incriminating from various angles, but almost always the views of their authors, who nevertheless requires scientific to say so, a critical debate that would point to often inexplicably and incorrectly mentioned data in them. The role of the centre in this part is primarily their Department of Archival Construction, as this Department is available in various institutions and natural and legal persons. These were about 110 demands last year, which in some ways concern the Homeland War. And using archives and building centers, you can avoid these above-mentioned traps in interpreting certain events in the Homeland War. Also, I welcome from the Report and suggest that the focus should be placed on as much published material as possible, which is fully collected and systemised as it is shown here in the document of the Republika Srpska region. In 2011, 9 or 10 books were published, and in this way we round up certain units and give them to the public. It would be expected that even more such materials, well said by people before me, encyclopaedias, lexicons, but that's probably the cause, a lack of insufficient staff. But that's what we've been talking about. I also welcome the initiative of field work in that part of the participation of the centre on, means when it goes let's say outside of Zagreb, at exhibitions, at lectures, various events which are touched by the Homeland War, public stands, lectures, promotions. Last year there were 80 such exhibitions, so what lectures. But let me because I'm from Karlovac that the town of Karlovac is listed only twice here. So in these lectures, the promotions, so outside of Zagreb. I'm just saying, given the role of Karlovec and the defense of the Homeland. But I'm not going to point that at the Memorial Center, because there's probably a leak at our place in Karlovac that we no longer involved the center in our activities in the Homeland War. It's good to go out in the field. It's a good way to affirm the homeland war, and by working on the ground to promote the work of this center of yours. Take all the remarks well-intentioned and I hope it will help further work the centre. I repeat, the SDP club supports this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19480	Thank you very much. And now on behalf of the HDZ club, distinguished representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19481	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Director. Let me congratulate you and the employees of the centre on the work you did in 2011, and before what you have drawn up, of course, a Report towards the Croatian Assembly which is ahead of us and in short form, and we are able to study it in a broader version, in a more extensive version because it is presented on the website. I am pleased to hear that I am familiar with your work and that we are familiar with your work in the HDZ club for many years today, and I am pleased to hear that many or practically all are obliged to honor what the centre has done in recent years in 2011. I remember it wasn't always like that. I remember that the birth of the centre since 2005, from the first employee, the search for space, the first programming, the first budget planning, the first intensities of buying materials for the documentation centre, were not always going easy. Today, when the centre has one doctor of science, 2 master of science, and 8 employees of the center at a doctoral study from the national history of the 20th century. I must say that we are very pleased because we have received a respectable, professional and scientific, cultural institution in the Republic of Croatia that can respond to any professional challenge, any professional question and arguments of the historical profession to defend certain views. We always knew that your work was based on historical truth, on historical facts and that it was actually the best way to defend the interests of the Republic of Croatia. The fact is the truth. They're so inconceivable that today, when we look at this report, you could have done 23 scientific or professional work in just one year. I assure you that there are scientific institutes with a much higher budget, even with more employees who do not have such scientific productivity, and we must bear that in mind when we speak here in the Parliament and these things. It should be absolutely commended that it is constantly working on collecting archival material and that of all the character of archival material which also contains personal documents that are obtained, technical units with maps, audio records, image records, which actually says that the centre in terms of archival activity meets all that modern archive requirements at the centre. A library with practically 1,000 individual titles was created. The regular centre is also involved in the marking of all major events, important dates although in fact they are all very valuable and very important, events related to the Homeland War, and in recent days there has been also the release of the Dubrovnik environment, i.e. the Croatian south di centre also played a significant role. It was said here and he mentioned an esteemed colleague that it would be very good for the centre to find a larger amount of material resources in the years to come. Of course I'd like that. I believe it will be heard in the government and in the resolution ministry and will have that in mind. Personally, I am not such an optimist that it will really be so, because the announcements are that there will be further cutting of funds for both archival activity and cultural activity, and we will see what will happen to science. And I'd like to see if you, with that reduced range of resources, can manage to maintain this activity at the center of the Homeland War. What I would especially like to point out with your website is what was mentioned here as saying some window into the world or some identification that the centre of all these years has done, which is that in six years of work more than 30 editions have been issued. During the discussion of recent years, it has been said that it is good for some of these publications to start printing in foreign languages as well. I'll just say in this year the Greater Serbian Aggression to Croatia 1990 or... It is good because of those in Europe who are still wondering in the world who are still wondering what actually happened in the former Yugoslavia. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] Many in the immediate environment of the Republic of Croatia today do not know or want to admit what happened in the early 1990s. The English edition of the book on the Battle of Vukovar... Because when people come to Vukovar or when they hear about it, many of them either don't know or don't want to admit what actually happened. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And as a good bilingual edition, a book by a French volunteer in the Gaston Besson Homeland War or Life on the Target was created. All of this is terribly important for the spread of truth, because as we have said, it is precisely true and historical facts that prove what happened in the Homeland War that the general concept of the Homeland War in the European Union, and beyond, and especially in the European Union where Croatia actually enters. What I would also like to point out from the report is that in fact the centre received only 110 requests from natural and legal persons in 2011 without counting almost daily queries and requests from the state services and especially these defence teams at the Hague Generals' Court for the use of archive material. I trust Mr. Director, dear colleagues and colleagues, I believe that this very systematic and dedicated work on the collection of documents that prove the historical facts and the truth will be very helpful in these judicial processes that are being conducted and that you will succeed in the strength of the arguments and methodology of the historical profession and archival activities to prove and help the defendants prove the truth. In this regard, the HDZ Club congratulates once again on the work done in 2011, it believes that you will continue in the future and we will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19482	Thank you very much. We will now hear the position of the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19483	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Director of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre. And the HDSSB club will support your report in a warm way, your report that speaks of what the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War was doing for 2011, in which, therefore, it shows and proves the truth about the Homeland War. And as this badge says our generals are heroes, not criminals, you prove to be true what happened in the Homeland War. With 3.5 million kuna funds, let me put it that round, right, what you did in 2011 is for congratulation. If by your model of work all the houses of the media, our public television so-called. Publicly, then we'd be doing the truth about the Homeland War much better. Because yet one say picture is worth more than 100 words. The other day, at the orders of one editor of HRT, they asked us if we knew who Nikola Jurisic, the winner of Sulejman the Great, right? That's how the editor first read the wikipedia, so he asked the MPs as history experts, right? So I would ask a question when HRT thought of it as Turkish television is doing a movie or a series about Nikola Jurisic, the winner of Sulejman the Great, so it was formulated. Never! Not about the Homeland War ever. So, they were more important co-operatives through which they were dealing money, they were more concerned with the work and disorder on HRT than your Documentation Centre which was working and whose works are visible, and here are now announced and shown in your presentation than they are, so it was more important to them to hate, mess, yellow and cooperative profits than to work on the same goal as your truth about the Homeland War. We're being shown Sutescu, Neretva and I don't know the Battle of Kozara, etc. But it's not now, it's not a topic. So did Praljko's editions of the Homeland War, very significant testimony, a very significant text that explains a lot about the war in BiH, but also in Croatia because it is difficult to separate it. But I would like to suggest something else perhaps well-meaningly clear. So, in the EU very often, a syntagma of the Western Balkan state is used, and it is much more often than it should be. Even in official use when it comes to Croatia because it's one of the Western Balkan states as if it's some kind of mini-federation here again. There is also talk of civil war in the former Yugoslavia or in the area of the former Yugoslavia. This is what this civil war would say in English and how this phenomenon is used that some others force, and those who have somewhat co-opted the war in this area, in which they have not responded or reacted in the wrong way by helping the aggressor rather than the victim, so today they are using this very syntagma of civil war and precisely your publications and work must be focused precisely on removing that civil war mark, and that as you have made your own issues of aggression, so that Serbia's aggression on Croatia is formulated. Furthermore, given that you have already published bilingual editions in that sense and in English, and here in French, as counterpart Mesic said in a edition written by Gaston de Sault or by Marc Charvel French, although these are editions which are therefore of a documentary character and I wonder if we went out when abroad? So we have a Frankfurt fair, we have a series of fairs of books with such editions in Europe. So, to the speaking area of English, German, French, etc. It might be good to go out with such publications on the European book market. In Croatia, as Shantek once said in a debate a few days ago, 400 children died. So, those who are under 18. Of which in Slavonski Brod 28. A whole class of kids died in Slavonski Brod. It would be good, it would be as good-looking as the idea to process this particular area, so at least in a way to mark and show the world and practice et orbi which was aggression and what brought Serbia's aggression to Croatia. Here these days, a lot is being debated about the defense register and some other registers as if we don't have our own register, our own words that might replace the word register. In doing so, as I have already read the names of Gaston Besson and this other, I am not repeating the name of Mr. Mark Charwell and I personally know a number of other foreigners to do a review of people who came from other countries knowing the truth back in '91. about the state and character of our Homeland War in Croatia to fight on the side of the Croatian Army and Croatia. It would be, I'm not talking about the register, but just one insight into how many foreigners they came from, from which countries they came and fought on the side of Croatia, as well as those of our Croats from so-called Croatia. Diasporas but above all far diaspora Argentina, Chile, Canada, USA, Germany, etc. who fought here with us side by side. On page 3, it says that the employees of the centre participated as authors of the introduction and parts of books or reviewers in the production of a monograph of military-redarative troops of the Croatian Armed Forces from the Homeland War in '91, '96, for the Second Guard Brigade of the Croatian Army, the fourth, seventh, ninth, the First Croatian Guard Association, units for special tasks of the MUP of the Republic of Croatia. Well, here's a little one like this not a grudge but also a recommendation if it were an edition of the Third Guard Brigade of our Slavonska or the fifth, which also celebrated the Croatian warriors and soldiers as the real soldiers that Napoleon wanted to write about too. Furthermore, I see here in photo monographs of Zvonimir Tannocki have Vinkovci in the Homeland War. I see you're part of the authors or coauthors. It also says Mr. Nazor, Matko Martincic and Jercic. Right? So it would be good, given that four hundred dead civilians in Slavonski Brod would in some way make one such photo monograph, and I can personally offer you videos from a Slavonian ship hospital in which, the largest war hospitals never recognized as wartime, in which 8 and a half thousand wounded were treated which came from Slavonski Brod and the surrounding area, and what from the Bosnian Posavina. The film, which I saw in the 20-minute period at Humbolt University in Germany in Berlin, in Charite Hospital caused so much attention not only but also given the direct footage of direct injuries and the reviling that some doctors from Germany, German military doctors, had left the hall where the video was presented. So here I am offering certain cooperation and assistance. In 1995, I was deployed in the municipality of Dvor as a member of the Special Police Unit, and then I saw my eyes and took part in the disposal of corpses that ran over the tanks of Mile Novakovic, General JNA, a tank column that fled from Glina towards Bosnia Nova. For war crimes in the area, his testimony as a witness or suspect was also given by General Stipetic, but no one ever accused General Milo Novakovic of hundreds of Serb civilians run over. A column of tractors, cars, children, women, old men who have been run over, to say from my earlier protectors and armies, so-called army. It's called the landscape. You should document that if you knew who did it. There are a number of things that you and I might do more with a conversation like this as ideas that I could give you as a participant of the Homeland War, but here I remember these Konavalas and your south and every hammer and stone and I was also on the Cape of the Sharp personally as a member of the Special Police. Unfortunately, somehow the fall of Bosnian Posavina 8 coincided. October '92. The year the Bosnian ship fell here recently, recently 20 days ago... It's an unfortunate date for our Possavaks. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I support you in your work, and I want these funds to be, if I were to rule at all, I would appeal more to them to find and not to shrink but to increase to the end, and those who say that it's been 20 years since the Homeland War, so you know Tito's military acts, collected editions. I don't know how many books, it was a joke this big, military act, that was the title. They've been printed for 70 years, 30 years after World War II. So let's continue to explore and support you in this because I know you're looking for the truth and that your thoughts and efforts are almost identical, in that direction, are identical with both my and the HDSB club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19484	Thank you very much. Now we're done discussing clubs and we're going to an individual debate. And here's a replica. ... No, no, it is, it is. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's true, one replica. Representative Ivica Mandic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19485	Thank you very much. Here I used this instrument of replicas not to agree with the discussion or discussion of my colleague Grubisic but one thing she offered me when it came to movies, World War II and so on. I would be a proud Croatian citizen to make such quality films – Green pine is growing in the mountains, where wild pigs go, Kappel Krists, Sutjeska etc. I think you should certainly also offer the Documentation Centre to someone to make a story that will suit the world. And another thing I would say is that the centre better appears at scientific gatherings than at an exhibition of books in Frankfurt because I think these topics that do not have such a wide range of interests are scientific gatherings that explore wars of the end of the 20th century, and I think that this documentation centre with its scientific and professional depiction can make a significant contribution to lighting and truth. As far as the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are concerned, the truth about the Homeland War is clear, but still that truth hasn't reached all the power centers in the world, and that's why it takes the center to work all the time, but I'm going to say again on the basis of the profession and scientific data, that collected data. And here you have come up with data from colleagues Grubisic that you can have one file Grubisic – Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19486	Thank you very much. We will now hear the reply to the replica of the representative Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19487	I do not agree with you that scientific gatherings are a special way because there is a narrow group of people, so where there is no wider public and I think the whole of Europe should know what was going on here, not just a group of experts or a group of experts from 20, 30, 50 or 100 people. That's not it. We have to convince Europe, not convince them, because they have a completely different view of it because someone else convinced them of something like these movies you're talking about were completely indoctrination and not showing the truth but lies, very often lies. So I wouldn't want us to make movies as propaganda as these Partisan but true or true movies about the Homeland War. But it doesn't record this center as a documentary, it's a HRT that I have a lot of objections to her work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19488	Thank you very much. Here's what I just said in an individual debate first will be the distinguished representative of Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19489	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Director, colleagues and colleagues. So here's the first thing that comes to mind by listening to all your predecessors thank God for this kind of support, for this consensus of such an important job, such an important topic being handled by the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre. If it is to judge by it then surely there is hope for this country. And on the trail of what Mr. Vuksic said, facts and truth can be written on toilet paper, but they can't be a ham. As one previous centre said for eight years, it has been collecting, processing, archiving the construction of our recent past, namely the Homeland War and the creation of the Croatian state. Like everywhere, the most important thing for this job is people, professional, educated who, by argument, objectivity, and above all, explain what has happened over the past 20 years. A large number of editions of the centre, documents, calls for various stands, shows how well the work of the centre has been recognised in public and in my opinion has certainly become the strongest and best scientific institution that deals with the history of the Homeland War and, in general, part of the creation of the Croatian state. The participants are graduate historians led by Mr. Nazora and I know them all more or less, I can say that they are definitely a guarantee that the Homeland War in Croatia, but also in BiH, will not be handed over to fog and flat-rate publicist and any other presentations. What I would like to mention are, therefore, about the publishing part, some titles such as "The Greater Serbian Aggression in Croatia in the 1990s". A book that speaks of certain moments of aggression, about the Homeland War in response to this, a book that explains the controversy in both Croatia and the world, and therefore it is extremely important that it is translated into English. It has therefore been talking about Croatia since its independence, about the attack on Croatia, about the Homeland War, but it also talks about Croatia's role in BiH and also about Franjo Tudjman's role as first president in all these events. It brings us a chronological order of facts that speak about how the Croatian people set themselves up in the BiH independence vote. It tells us about what happened through the conflict that we had with Bosniaks, or Muslims, but it also tells us a lot of things that are common, so the BiH Army, or the Croatian Army, did to prevent much worse things from happening than they did in BiH. It tells us about how the Croatian army freed 5 thousand km in the area of Bihaća or prevented genocide that might be equal to the genocide on Srebrenica. All of what the Memorial center is processing and doing is denying a lot to this day to say I don't know if you'd call it information or misinformation, and some of these are certainly all aware of the famous information of 22,000 burned houses during Operation Storm and after Operation Storm. So, it's one of those I'm going to call a lie that aims to dirty up, so this magnificent victory in the Homeland War, which is simply explained by research in a way that is precisely proven that the UN observers were talking about 22,000 observed objects and not burned. I won't say or bid as many as there are. As much as it is, one or two, it's for the convicted and the memorial center is talking about it that way, but the fact is that lies and that misinformation can't go through and can't be what the history of the Homeland War is. I repeat, the center as the most important scientific institution that speaks of the Homeland War is definitely needed. A little while ago we heard that there are not many more thousands of associations in this country with about 500, 600 or 700 million kuna budgets, 2 billion for any projects. So, I'm not saying, honor projects that have value and contribute to the improvement of Croatia and its citizens, but there are a lot of those who really don't know what they're doing. So isn't it possible, regardless of the recession and all that, if we all agree that the Memorial center is what it's worth, what we all need to push together, what we need to affirm to be part of his means to strengthen and to be what he really needs to be, that one day we should actually see this Lexicon of the Homeland War, which will sum up all that in itself, so all that truth from the Homeland War and the creation of the state of Croatia. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19490	Thank you very much. Next in line is Honorable Representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19491	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Nazor, colleagues and colleagues. In his report, Mr. Nazor also touched the parts of the Croatian south about which it was a little written, and in fact played a very important role in the defence of the Croatian homeland, as well as the neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was spoken of by Mr. Nazor, so I will mention only some places... Bethine, Dubrovnik, Konaval, Trieste. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In those places, 106 property were killed, a city where no rifle was fired. But over 3,000 responded to the call of the Homeland. Of the heroes of the Homeland War, the dead of those places, thank God every year, are kept memories and sacred Masses. If all these events of our proud history did not fall into oblivion, the city of Imotski, the municipality of Imotska krajina and the honorable city of Dubrovnik are also concerned. That is why your engagement in the Croatian Documentation Centre of the Homeland War by collecting the buildings from that time in me awakens memories and emotions of those who deserve that I am today in this honorable and holy House of the Croatian Parliament. For me, it's both honor and pride. In the second part of your presentation you spoke about the work of the centre, but very modestly and should be stressed that with so few people and modest means to point out is the great productivity and engagement of the employees of the centre and given their number, and this is the data. During 2011 they were either preparing for the press in scientific or professional journals, monographs and chambers, as well as other professional newspapers 23 scientific or professional works of the centre’s staff with the topic from the Homeland War. During 2011, the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre of the Homeland War and its employees participated as organizers or co-organizers, and as active participants at about 80 exhibitions of scientific and professional gatherings of public stands, lectures and promotions. The publishing activity of the center we have heard a lot about today can be highlighted. That's what he was talking about before me, Mr. Miles... about Vukovar, and I especially like the book... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Life on target, volunteer France... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This book was presented in Split, in Croatian-French friendship in a club was visited and I think it is very important for me. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I want to point out in particular is that the Homeland War and its participants, and unfortunately in the media are often spoken in an unambiguous, selective, subjugation, scandalous and semi-information. And it is known that it was a noble, holy war for the defense of the Republic of Croatia, for our freedom and sovereignty. Therefore, the work of the Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War is very important and because of all this we have heard today we need to support it and provide enough resources for its further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19492	Thank you very much. We have one replica, the esteemed representative of Bora Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19493	My colleague Babić, given that you were from Imotski, and that I am a neighbor at birth, truly respect and glory to all those who are from Imotski and the surrounding area and also Western Herzegovina were together in Srđa and in the south of Croatia, defending the south of Croatia, which is relatively far from the very place of their residence. I would also like to mention in my presentation that when you mentioned both Imotski and South Croatia, I mentioned it as a strategic point or a door for Herzegovina and Dalmatia, or if you go from the south to the north door of Bosnia our Kupres. We know that Mladic's forces, General Mladic, were defeated there, and we know that it was also in '43. The year here could be said in the opening statement as it was in '43. The battle for Kupres where similar forces were equally defeated.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19494	Replica response, distinguished representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19495	It's too little time and I didn't want to take it away, and I couldn't really mention all the participants and heroes of the Homeland War as well as the places and victories in the Homeland War. Just for the shortest time, yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19496	Thank you. The next debate came from a respected representative of Sunchana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19497	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Director. The work of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War as a scientific institution and a specialized archive since its draft 2005 so far I believe that we all agree together deserve a high grade. Special attention during that period is devoted to collecting archival construction by systematic field work, with cooperation with actors from the Homeland War. I will not go back to the details my predecessors had already discussed, but what is important is the collection of works presented through publishing activities, professional seminars, symposiums, lectures exhibitions and media performances. I especially want to highlight the fact that part of the field work that was related to and the ends that were not directly affected by the Homeland War, I think it is extremely important and that is why I am particularly emphasising it. A private library is also organized, where all collected data are presented, and thus, of course, contributes to the creation of positive national memory and objective images of events during the aggression on the Republic of Croatia. There are significant publications about the Homeland War, but I would also like to highlight the education of teachers, or teachers. The history professor should continue because if children do not receive information about the educational system, and there may not be enough information, but it is not for this debate in the plans for the educational process that I think is extremely important education of professors and teachers who will be able to pass it on to them. The same way I believe that there are still documents, there are records that are not located where they should be, where they should be collected as all the so far collected buildings, which is the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre. So I also remind myself of the law that we have and I call upon all those who possess documents, any records of any kind, any structure that is related to the period of the Homeland War to certainly hand it over to the center for the purpose of protecting and processing. Maybe some of them are emotionally connected to those documents, and there's that. Here we have recently received in Međimurje County in HDZ a new member who was an active participant of the Homeland War and our director of the State Archives for Međimurje has received from him on a gift just some valuable documents which I hope to the Director that have been handed over to you or if they are not to be handed over these days. So, even today in 2012, there are still such valuable documents and I call upon indeed all those who have them to surrender them and, of course, they must know that they will be copied, that they will be adequately kept and not be forgotten, as will be taken pictures of these same materials. What else is the center’s work important? First of all, without exaggeration, I'd say this center is headed by Dr. He apparently did an important job in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, in the interest of our recent history, in the interest of all those generations to come. Keeping all relevant historical documents, fact, their objective scientific analysis is the responsibility of every serious and responsible state. The more we find ourselves in these places, the more important I think that task is. I'll end up with what dr. The attitude said in his opening address, which is that the truth about the Homeland War is often misrepresented or under-examinationed, infrequently trendy writings, and the resistances they unfortunately do not find in historical facts. So first of all, the public space that has to be intended for this is public television space, and I think the Memorial documentation centre is a non-drying source of data and that more video material or video publications would be more accessible to the general public in such a way and that perhaps in the most educational way, the most accessible way, so on video, they would be available to the wider Croatian public. Congratulations again. I'm glad that we all support the work of the center in this way, but I also hope that it will get more media attention since it's one collective memory that's being stored in our center, and I don't think it should be just guarded there, but as strong and presented as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19498	Thank you very much. With its contribution, the debate will also contribute to the distinguished representative Ruza Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19499	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Nazor, I support your excruciating systematic work. I know your work is important to know the truth and not to forget. It only saddens me that this work is being ignored in fact. I hope this center doesn't just serve when kids do graduate work, that it will serve the State's Attorney's office to finally file all those charges that should have been filed so far. I'm talking about murdered children, over 400, I'm talking about raped women, men in camps, I'm talking about Mitnica, Ovcara, camps in Serbia, but very few of those people were responding. So if you're working, if you're already wasting so much time, effort, and if you want money to investigate it all, I don't understand why the State's Attorney's office doesn't come to you for documents, why don't we investigate it exactly the way we should, and why are we Croats ashamed of the Homeland War? We keep quiet about it most of the time. Let's remember once when it's Homeland Thanksgiving or when we bring flowers to the defenders and then we say they've laid down their lives for us to be here, they're this. Are we doing something? Are we doing something to make sure that what they fell for was worth it? We're afraid someone's telling us something. Do we feel the Stigma since World War II, so we'll keep quiet, we won't talk about what's been going on. Are we going to wait 70 years to explore again and dig up the bodies of these murdered and missing in the Homeland War as we've been waiting since World War II? So why don't we have a little more confidence in ourselves? Why don't we have a little more pride in our people? We all know what's going on and a lot of people living witnesses who know where these things are. So they're walking around Vukovar. We have here, I read what people from Vukovar sent me, I will not read the names but, for example, the name of that and the employee of P Vukovar-Srijem, the PP Tovarnik participated in an armed rebellion against the Republic of Croatia, trapped in the "Blash" as a militant of the SAO landscape, lives in Tovarnik. Also, he participated in that... in an armed rebellion. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's a whole page of names and names. People work as cops in Vukovar. Some even live in Vukovar, and some live in Serbia, but come to work neatly in Vukovar. You have America and England whose soldiers committed terrible crimes not on their territory but on other people's territory. And they're proud of their soldiers, they're talking about their soldiers, their successes. We're ashamed of ours. And we fought a defense war. And once again, I ask you to tell me how many times and if the State's Attorney's office is talking to you when they're looking for those documents and how many times they've used those documents, because as far as I can tell how many of these women are showing up, how many defenders are showing up that they've been in captivity that a lot of things haven't been solved, and you know exactly who did it, you know exactly where they live. It just doesn't seem like God would give us the West or anyone else would object to us not doing it right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19500	Thank you very much. The replica was reported by the esteemed representative Branko Boxti.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19501	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Tomasic, you said I hope your work will also be the basis for the DORH to press charges. Well, that same DORH had plenty of time to file those same charges, but unfortunately he didn't start them. The real question is why he didn't start them. Here I come from Zadar County, from Benkovec. In the area of Benkovac, 235 civilians were killed through the Homeland War and only Mrs Banic was convicted as a nurse for crimes, for killing civilians in the area of the former Banking Area, i.e. a wider Banking Area. Indeed, the real question is why is it that no one for Skabrnj, for Nadine and for the other settlements where people were killed has responded and has already been here for 21 years. In last year's report of the State's Attorney's Office, there is a sentence that is very important and that because of the age or death of witnesses, there are fewer and fewer ways to come to the true truth. I think we're going that way when it comes to the Homeland War. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19502	The replica will be answered by distinguished representative Ruza Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19503	So the real question is that all the authorities have worked so far, why they've supported such a state attorney and why they haven't shown him any mistrust when he hasn't worked properly.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19504	Thank you very much. The last debate is that of distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19505	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Director of the Croatian Memorial Documentary Centre, colleagues and colleagues. Namely, the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre is a central archival and scientific institution for the collection of archive materials from the Homeland War, its research and protection. During 2011, the Center worked to collect and protect archive materials from the Homeland War, research and processing requests received from state and international institutions, bilingual editions from the Homeland War and to produce monographs, books, exhibition maintenance, home war system. It should be noted that 18 employees are employed at the Centre. Only two of them are middle-experienced workers while the vast majority of employees are graduated historians. In order to create scientists who would talk about the Homeland War, the professional and reasoned centre continued to invest in the education of its employees and was eight of them in a doctoral study. This information is of paramount importance because the professional training of the employees of the centre is the basis and also a guarantee of the exceptional quality of the work of the centre and of all its design units, and thus the fulfilment of the basic purpose of the foundation of the centre. Despite the exceptional expertise and sacrifice of the staff of the centre in the performance of tasks due to large-scale work in the centre, a number of other employees need to be employed. However, we see from the funds the centre receives from the state budget and which are reduced from year to year and are becoming smaller and therefore the centre cannot allow new employment. This is a problem since it is an establishment that performs an extremely important task for modern Croatian history. Therefore, in the state budget, sufficient resources should be provided for the normal functioning of the centre and the performance of all tasks which are of real, exceptional importance for the future of the Croatian state, for the truth about the Homeland War, for the reality that occurred in the premises of the Republic of Croatia and for the fact that the aggressors were ruthless and that their aim was created in the acts of the Serbian Academy of Science and Art wanted to be achieved right in this area. This brutality that is visible from a series of documents deposited in the centre, which are archived, which are classified as the documentation collected in the Liberation Operations and "Blash" and "Winter" and "Summer" and "Storm" which came to the Memorial Documentation Centre certainly speaks of the horrors that occurred in the territory of the Republic of Croatia as well as BiH. There is clear evidence in the videos as well as orders coming from Serb rebel headquarters as well as from JNA General Staff. All these documents clearly state that it was not enough to peek at only one day or one hour into the archival building of the Memorial Documentation Center, which is a valuable source of all the facts that speak of aggression, brutality, murder, arson, robbery, rape and all that the Homeland War carried. The report also noted that the centre was often called for participation in scientific gatherings, public stands, round tables, convenient markings of important dates and events from the Homeland War but caused dissatisfaction with the fact that the centre was not included in the work of Croatian education systems during 2011. In many of these activities within the framework of cultural and educational and scientific activities of about 80 exhibitions, scientific and professional meetings, public hearings and lectures and promotions during 2011, only 10, 15 lectures were held for 8th grade students. And this is what certainly needs to be used much more but more and people hired and provided the funds so that the centre could be the source of credible competent data about the Homeland War so that these knowledge and expertise that explain the tailored teaching program can safely be passed on to generations who need to know the truth about the Homeland War. The teachers of history and students are also a small number of lectures and their scientific gatherings at which the staff of the centre should convey as much and as best as possible. This is too little in view of the possibility that the centre can provide to all schools, but there are those who are interested and who are not. Equally, in the education system it is necessary to introduce a legal decree that the Homeland War must be an integral part of the learning of Croatian history. I believe that much more attention should be paid to the cooperation of the centre with educational institutions so that children can gain, through learning history, at least basic information about the Homeland War, the greatest battles, the greatest casualties and other facts. In 2002 only students in Livno, Karlovac, Zagreb, Metković, Slunj, Sibenik, Prelog, Županja, Vrbanja, Trilj, Makarska and Velika Gorica were able to use this opportunity. And when we look at these data that in one year only 10 cities or 10 schools in Croatia have made it possible for the centre staff to provide basic information about the Homeland War. There are also veterans of the Homeland War who are trained, who also go to Zagreb, something, in Karlovac, in Samobor and here in the vicinity of Zagreb, and also somewhere in some counties, but these are rare, where they also go to the students with certain materials and introduce them to the Homeland War. It's all very small, miserable and actually insufficient. It is certainly necessary to commend the work of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War and their employees and to point out once again the need to ensure sufficient financial resources to continue with the same quality of tasks, which are the basis for a particular emphasis on the need to lecture on the Homeland War on primary and secondary schools throughout Croatia, with the hope that the upcoming period will be met precisely by this activity. We believe that the centre can provide much more in view of the material collected that it owns. Not only in the education system of the Republic of Croatia, not just children, not just generations that come, but also the repressive apparatus of the Republic of Croatia such as the Ministry of the Interior, such as the State's Attorney and all those who talk in the absence of information about the fact that some are abolized. War crimes cannot experience abjectness, it clearly states both in the decision on abolization and in the law and in all acts. And not everyone who thinks or the State Attorney's Office or the Police who does not have enough information can be called to the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre which has such an archive that is amazing and which can provide about any battlefield, any event necessary information if someone wants to make it sanctioned by anyone who has committed war crimes against the citizens of the Republic of Croatia on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. And those who, by column of tanks and mobilising a great deal of the Serbian people, went to the conquering aggressor war in the Republic of Croatia. We believe that listen to those who are needed, as well as listen to those who have disabled the financing of the book or books of Mr. General Pralj, and the 2012 solution of the Ministry of Finance as far as I am aware, and I believe that such events will no longer occur than those truths, and the orders made in those 18 books that have been called as I have heard the brochures experience the full opportunity to be supported because these documents from Bosnia and Herzegovina and Herzegovina, and the war cards, and the orders of the Croatian Council of Defence, and the commands of the Croatian Army, and the commands of the army of Bosnia and Herzegovina, these events and clear images certainly cannot be devalued brochures but clear documents that speak of horrors, of the truth, because what was signed and put into the book as a command, what was approved as a map of the attack or direction of the unit can be no material which has been provided by the Ministry of Finance or by the Ministry of Finance or by the Ministry of Finance of Finance of Culture of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of Culture of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of Justice of the Ministry of the Ministry of Justice and we believe that we believe that they listen that they are also listen, as they are also listen to those need, as well. Therefore, in this debate, I would like to commend all the employees headed by Mr. Nazor who are always available to all institutions and who have certainly done a very good job for the good of Croatia and for its future. Cheers!
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19506	Thank you very much. We have three replicas. She's the first one to be respected representative of Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19507	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Djakic spoke of the importance that you do, and indeed there is no one who holds any hold to the Homeland War as the foundation of the creation of the Croatian state without supporting yours. However, you said co-worker Djakic and one very important sentence of abstention. So in light of the announced publication of the register of Croatian defenders and for which I will say again on behalf of the HDSSB club as we have previously spoken we are for the publication of the register of Croatian defenders that we know exactly who participated in the Homeland War. But we are also in favour of announcing all the participants of the great-Serb aggression covered by the Abolition Act. And on top of that, I want you to continue with all the activities you've been doing with even more support than you've ever had before. But you are working on the fact that Croatian history from the time of the Honorary Homeland War is not written by the defeated, but by the winners of this Homeland War. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19508	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19509	Well, I certainly agree with my colleague Buric that it is necessary to publish the names of all those who were aggressors and executioners, and they are appalled that they should not be abolized. That's right. That's right. That's right. Maybe it's a lawsuit in the judiciary, but we see a lot of times in the judiciary that he's wrong. I would disagree with what you say about the publication of the register of Croatian defenders because I have represented such thesis and will continue with them, given that there are obstacles and that Croatian defenders are not citizens of the second order that they should be on each plate. First that. Second because of security matters that will certainly be at the expense of Croatian defenders who have done certain intelligence work. And a third. Because the law on the protection of personal data is also a constitutional category of Croatian citizens and cannot be published without the consent of each individual on his participation in the Homeland War. I believe that more institutions, as well as the Ministry, as well as the Government of the Republic of Croatia, will think once again about all these aspects and only when they evaluate and exemplify, and we will be on the trail, at least I will be on track with representatives of a number of associations that we will ask for an assessment of the constitutionality of such legislation since we believe that we have to publish, above all, deserters who have fled from Croatia, we have to announce all the KOSs who have been in Croatia. We have all domestic traitors, and then eventually Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19510	Thank you very much. The next is the line of the distinguished MPs, Gjurjice Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19511	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, fellow Djakic, here I am, of course, agreeing with your presentation but I would like to say in my replica the following, and I think it is also important to stress that this Memorial centre is of course very important and of course that we are grateful at all what exists. And other countries that have also been through such a liberating war so I would say this sacred Homeland and foreign delegations lead to their memorial centers. And my proposal is just the same as to sort of fit it. Of course, it would be very good for children to study in schools, and I hope that in this new civil education, new authorities and that part of the Homeland War have predicted. Namely, how to mark the mentioned, the Days of Statehood and the rest and how to build and in reality fill children with this national pride when we hardly see a flag on our important and mentioned and holidays and the Day of Statehood. So, what we should do from a small point of view and to give external features to all who come to Beautiful Ours to celebrate today's Statehood Day or Homeland Thanksgiving, that we are proud of our own Homeland War as other people of all civilizations do. We must not forget that, and indeed it is also important that this center of yours and once again here it may not be bad if one agreement were made for foreign statesmen in their protocol or their escorts to come to that center and to see in reality the truth about the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19512	Thank you very much. The answer of the distinguished representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19513	So I believe colleagues that the Encyclopedia of Homeland War will certainly be this crown work that this centre will do and, with all the efforts that have worked so far with the Encyclopaedia of the Homeland War, it will certainly be covered by everything that has happened through all the operations, through the defence, through the resistance of the aggressor, through the organization in the first days, through the acquisition of weapons, through all those who participated in this I believe that such a coverage will surely be true, quality processing of all the data to the Croatian public will finally be delivered a unique book of all the horrors and events that Croatia has gone through. I believe in these employees and I wish them a lot more money, but also a lot of success in all presentations as they have done so far. Many times with local units, we jump in to help them to make it possible at scientific meetings, cultural events, on the anniversary to do what is necessary for that part, for that end, and then to remove from the historical things the addition from which hate originates, from which aggression comes, when someone has already placed in the documents of those Serbian ideologists that Croatia needs to be enslaved and rebuked.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19514	Thank you very much. The last is the replica of those respected MPs, Ruza Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19515	Thank you very much. Your colleague Djakic said that war crimes do not go out of date, it needs to be processed. How about 1750 Chetniks who were to be convicted of war crimes crossed war crimes with a written armed rebellion so that they could be covered by the Law of Forgiveness or Abolination, and now live and work in Croatia. And can you even imagine that in one example. in the U.S. Senate, is there any member of Al-Quaida? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19516	Thank you. Answer, distinguished representative Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19517	Thank you very much. My colleagues Tomasic so here are 1750 Chetniks you probably think of an area that is integrated into the territory of the Republic of Croatia after the rebellion, you probably think of those who have raised their weapons and I think you are absolutely right when you talk with anger about their actions being translated into rebellion and abolized. It cannot be translated into rebellion because there are documents about it, there are their units, there are witnesses of events, there are campers and campers who have passed the horrors of their tortures and should not be neglected by any state institution. They should be sanctioned. And I believe, and I answer the question, I believe that it is impossible for the Croatian judiciary to do what is right, if they are all applying the law equally, then it should not have happened politically or by any means possible for the 1750 Chetniks to turn into rebels who are affected by the upheaval. If they have bled their hands, they must be processed and punished.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19518	Thank you very much. The final presentation will be that of the director of the centre of Professor Ante Nazor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19519	I would like to thank the esteemed MPs and MPs. First of all, I would like to thank you for supporting the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War. All of this you've told us that we should actually do a few more departments should be established in this center, the Department of Film Activity, the Training Department, etc. But we have institutions, we have HRT, we have different institutions dealing with documentaries. It is up to us to give them insight into the material on which they will do so. As well as for the state's attorneys, our material is available, we have the cooperation of Sisak, Sibenik, Zadar, for example, a lot of things have gone away. However, the problem is, it has already been mentioned and I agree with Mr. MPs when they said the centre was set up late. Indeed, the 10th year was late founded and this material that is still in the settlement phase often does not allow a detailed reconstruction of some events. Of course, some of the things that have been done when we're talking about crimes, you'll find it hard to find the act alone, but we have data on people, units, and it can be used, and that's what it's about. I wouldn't go any further into what wasn't provided for by the Centre's Labour Act. But what you've all hinted at here and what bothers me most is ignoring it. This word has been mentioned several times, and I think it fits the truth. It's just that some people don't respond to facts being brought up. I may express myself here and in a dictionary in '91. It was important to have ammunition at the time and it was important to have artillery. Unlike '91. Our center now has ammunition. It's gunning documents, but we don't have artillery. And our books simply, not ours, I am not only speaking here on behalf of the centre of which I am director but also scientific institutions repeating the Croatian Institute of History. When was the last time you heard in the central information program that a book of the Croatian Institute of History was presented? What I'm asking is, if there's controversy about something, and there's a lot of them, is there a problem, we have public television, an hour, two hours of debate, two people sit down, two people on the other side, so let's see who shows the documents and who talks on the basis of the second, third, fourth source. These are things we just have to insist on, and that's not there. It's very simple to achieve. Mr. esteemed HNS agent has said something that we are actually repeating in each of our performances – the causes of war. And we talk about the consequences all the time. The Hague court is constantly discussing the consequences, as if the war had begun on August 4, 1995. For years, it was like nothing had happened before. We have just insisted on the causes of this book, Greater Serbian aggression, and we have shown documents since the 1980s. HDZ has not yet come to power but has already been a major Serbian project based. Look at the documents from the '80s, mid-80s. See what Ivan Stambolic writes so I don't list everything that's been going on here. This is the most important thing, therefore, to recognize the causes, to recognize chronology, so that they can understand the consequences and talk about the consequences. The suffering of children in the Homeland War. Our center was set up late, but some people have worked until then and are working on various ministries today and we have taken over some results and we work together on them. So far, what's by name and last name can be confirmed is the death of 323 children in the Homeland War. The Department of Health worked on it and we got that list. But precisely because we are very careful in bringing such data to the public, this list is still being updated because there are some doubts that this number is something greater. But then, it's done a lot of things. A list of those killed in the Homeland War practically when it comes to the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Interior, these lists are almost 100%. We're having problems with civilian victims, and in cooperation, I've already said with the Department of Detained and Missing Department of Defense I think we're going to bring this job to an end very quickly, that we're going to put that list on the public eye so that it can intervene. Because I repeat, it's about people, it's about the dead, and it needs to be very careful. As for the possibility of establishing our own, we can tell the branch that we are aware of the situation, we are aware of how much this would burden the budget. But there is a very simple solution. In every major city, the centre of especially where the counties that were directly affected by the war existed either the state archives or museums or some scientific institution. Only one person in them is enough to hire to deal with the Homeland War, linked to us, related to other scientific institutions. We'll do a lot of things. Only one person in every institution, so it's not a major budget strike. After all, and so far, thanks to this connection to both scientific institutions and associations and participants of the Homeland War, we have received numerous data. There was talk here about private archives. We are aware that there are many of them and we are aware that in some ways many people are a souvenir from the Homeland War, especially when we talk about photographs, videos. But, Mr. Grubisic, whatever you hand over to the center today can be recorded. He'll stay with you, stay with the center. He better be with more owners than he's with only one. I thank the esteemed SDP parliamentary representative for commending the financial report. It's the work of a colleague who's alone in that department, again for saving and who has a really great burden on her back and we help her as much as possible. The commendation goes to her. Publishing documents in a foreign language is necessary and the center cannot do it alone again. We, as far as we can push, need to connect various institutions. We don't even have a problem publishing it. Expensive translations are clear, but it is more difficult to distribute them, and here we expect the help of the ministries that can help. The lexicon is not yet possible, first of all because the material is not arranged. It's gonna take a long time, but I can't say how much I don't want to go back, but as long as we're working out, it's not done. It's hard to talk about some final historical truth. That's where we should be careful. All that the center has published so far is based on historical sources, and I will not say that this is the final truth as long as we have a huge number of documents still standing somewhere and not in our hands or not arranged. In particular, this refers to a war in Bosnia and Herzegovina that cannot be seen separately from the war in Croatia. And this book The Greater Serbian Aggression in the Republic of Croatia in the 1990s clearly determines what happened in these areas, including BiH, when I talk about large-serb aggression and when it happened. Unfortunately, we're often able to hear that it was a non-conglomerate of bad policies and then civil war, and look at the documents. Well, you don't have to do just since the 1980s, but since the 19th century, you'll see that what happened in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina in the 1990s is the continuation of large Serbian politics, and this is the continuity of large Serbian politics rather than the conglomeration of bad policies. That should always be emphasized. Of course, when the war starts to have everything and everything, that no one is sinless and the center's intention is just taught by the experience of World War II the truth and only the truth. The negative things that have been happening, we have to say them today so they don't come back to us twice as hard tomorrow. And that's why, that's the center's strategy when we started it we tried to hire young people who finished, we graduated history, who during their work will have documents, sources in their hands and who will then be able to interpret them. Our few older ones including a fellow who is more archivist to help in this archival sense, us couple who are older as scientists here, we are actually some sort of counsellor. But we believe that only after ten years of working on documents are you close to some events. That's something to take care of. It's clear to us now that we have one frame, but I'm saying details are still possible to change and we should never run. If we were more productive then there would have to be us either twice as much or the day would have to be at least 40 hours. As simple as teaching, we go where they call us. And we didn't go anywhere self-invited and we just never turned anyone down. Whoever called us elementary school, high school, Matica Croatia, anyone we went to and said what we know, showed our documentation. I'm afraid if they hear you, Mr. Djakic, we're going to need two or three more beds, because we won't be able to do all that. But that is why there is exactly what a colleague, an esteemed representative in cooperation with the Education and Education Agency, has said every year, teachers of history modeling a program that has a Holocaust for us is the Homeland War, so what is in the world scales of the Holocaust for Croatia is certainly the Homeland War of importance. We managed to fight for a seminar every year from several days where teachers of history from all over Croatia come and listen to lectures from both scientists and direct participants of the Homeland War on various topics, in various areas, I think it is too important and that this should continue so. The book of Gaston Basson, which is mentioned here, is the thanks of our centre to all volunteers who came to Croatia, I will not talk about motives and we must be careful there, there were various, I will talk about those who cited their motives and why they stayed in the Homeland War, and Gaston Basson listed him, his book is not a classical historical book in terms of... It is very important to those who are engaged in military psychology or sociology of war, in this respect it is more valuable, but it has served us as a thank-you to all those who are as he says we have come to this war, but we have stayed, for various reasons, but we have stayed only because we have understood what is right and what is not, we have figured out who is stronger, who is weaker, that the weaker should be helped, and the stronger was the one with whom JNA was. [[You don't understand.]] When we published this book, in the introduction of this book we stated that there are about 5 hundred foreign volunteers on the list, this number has now grown to about 6 hundred, there are from various countries around the world, the most you will not believe it from the United Kingdom, then France and Germany, but there are also people from distant countries, exotic countries. Each of them came for his own good, there are them, and they are also of the origin of the Croats. Most of them came when he saw pictures of Vukovar destroyed, but I say the most important thing is what they stayed for, and that's that righteous motive to fight on the side of the good. And that should have been pointed out, and these people should have been thanked, because they came to help Croatia when it was most difficult. The Vinkovci in the Homeland War again talk about some people coming to us with some photos, tomorrow let some people come to us with photos of Slavonski Brod, especially the hospital, it's a special topic that is currently being processed, and... In the Homeland War, it's a very important topic about the Homeland War. [[You don't understand.]] You mentioned the tank column here, we have reports... The material we did interviews with our soldiers, we have documents from the Serbian side, the Serbian press, but on television, during a duel, I was attacked publicly to spread lies and lies when I was talking about that tank column. [[You don't understand.]] I'm not going to tell you how many victims there were because we don't know, but the fact is that there's a Girovec during the Storm Tanks... Novakovic has been run over by a column of civilians, there are, a column of civilian vehicles, and there are records about it. [[You don't understand.]] When we talk about BiH, I will never dare go to the local level, believe those documents I looked at in 110th, 111th HVO brigade, there's a lot of time to go on at these local levels to catch up with the endings, and we're talking about some strategic things that can't be ignored in writing history, so neither should historians nor politicians. You mentioned international recognition here, you mentioned going out on a referendum, I mentioned the fact that it was '92. In the year, that the Croatian forces had defended a good part of BiH, you mentioned 5,000 square kilometers in '95. The year alone was freed by the Croatian forces in cooperation with the BiH Army clearly through these operations, and unfortunately this is what intrigues and what we ask is how it is possible that one full demonstration of the events in BiH in the Croatian media, or the media in Croatia, is singled out only one unfortunate, tragic for both peoples of the Croatian-Muslim conflict, i.e. the Bosniak-Muslim-Croatian conflict. It's one of the stages of war and it needs to be explained well, but simply here we were recently and with a council of the Bosniak national minority... in Srebrenica, it's terrible, and man can't imagine until he sees and hears on the spot what's going on, he can't imagine what's going on there. [[You don't understand.]] And then when someone goes to compare Srebrenica and Storm, then it's out of my mind, or General Gotovina and General Mladic, or President Tudjman and President Milosevic for the war in BiH. I've been to some meetings about it in Split, I've been listening, I've come out of respect for these victims, but unfortunately there are people who have not seen the documents responsiblely and haven't read the literature, and I don't mean just Croatian hysterography, we've obtained a lot of books and Bosniak-Muslim and Serbian hysterography, just so we can evaluate and speak objectively about all this. So I say here there were words, just to finish, about the defeated and the winners, I think they all have the right to write history, but that this history has to be based on documents and that it has to stick to very clear methodologies. And finally, what I have to answer to Mr Vuksic, so those books you have shown, they are based on documents, indeed we from them, from these documents have learned much, but perhaps you have opened another question about who is talking and who is writing about the events in BiH on behalf of the Croats. Unfortunately, there are no institutions in Bosnia and Herzegovina when I speak among the Croatians who are dealing with the Homeland War, and I think you should think about it because the centre here from Zagreb cannot cover it and it may be a new topic. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19520	Thank you very much, Mr. Nazor. Four replicas have been reported for your exposure. He is his first colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19521	Thank you very much. Mr. Director, I am pleased that in these few points you mentioned what is from my presentation, and I am pleased with your explanations, and since I was last at the end since I was present at the funeral of the hit-and-run civilians from that column from Rujevec to Bosanski Novi, which was run over by the tank column of Mile Novakovic, with the presence of the Danish UMPROFOR, and it is likely that the Danish UMPROFOR would have had data if they hadn't been burned, because they were later burned in the action of the UN, so camp UMPROFORFOR, I was present as a doctor when it was buried between 100 and 110 corpses at the time. That is, therefore, the effects of the column of the tank Mile Novakovic, and to say that it was also found in the surrounding villages, that I do not now list the names of these villages Mr. Shantek knows from Žirovec, Rujevac, squares, etc., where 5. The BiH Army Corps crossed the border with no agreement with the Republic of Croatia and also committed certain crimes in the territory of the Republic of Croatia in these villages, including the dead, killed to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19522	Thank you. Next colleague, Nedjad Hodzic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19523	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, my dear colleague, you spoke here of the inability to compare some events in the war. I'm sure you can't compare it, but the gauges of one tragedy aren't as likely as the gauges of tragedy to one another, but you have to make sure that only one victim, only one life murdered, is missing victim. I don't know how much you know but just for the sake of the Homeland War, you'll have to deal with the negativity that was because we here in Croatia are primarily obliged to defend the dignity of this country, and if I were to ask you what you know about the banning of Serbs, Bosniaks, arrests, takeaways from Istria and Primor when we were arrested and led by regular police forces taught to the military police, these ships transported us to Split, shut us down by hangars, taught the HVO in Herzegovina, and I personally barely got a living head out of it, although in the 6th month of '92. A year from Bijeljina, so the city that was first attacked in BiH barely pulled out a 6-year-old child and parents. And my house was full of refugees. So, the Homeland War in order to protect its integrity must be looked into the eyes as complete and cleared up in its own society with its own negativity not constantly looking at what someone else has answered. Greater Serbian politics have led the Republic of Serbia to the fact that there is no more Kosovo as sacred, but that is their problem. Let's go deal with our problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19524	Thank you. Would you like to answer? Mr. Nazor, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19525	We know about it, too, and we know who insisted on moving, but I know it's inappropriate to say that when I come to a gathering that talks about Srebrenica out of respect for the victims, we hear a sentence that we know who killed in Srebrenica, but don't get me wrong, if it wasn't for Croatian politics, maybe it wouldn't have happened. At least I heard about what was going on in Srebrenica. There were people who said that they were ashamed of the policies of Croatia and Franjo Tudjman because of what was done and because of these events, I am ashamed too, to be clear. But I am proud of the great majority of Croats who, at the most difficult times during the Croatian-Bosnian conflict, helped these people, took care of them, and there one boasted that he printed transcripts of the talks of Tudjman-Milosevic talking about the division of Bosnia. I didn't want to spoil and disrupt at the time because the topic was Srebrenica and victims, and then I talked to some people, but now I'm going to ask why these transcripts haven't been published since the '90s, '91? Why are the talks of President Tudjman and the representatives of the Bosniak-Muslim on a possible alliance not being published? Why am I just saying everything that happens doesn't show completely so that you can see why something at some point was like that? I repeat, to me personally, is the greatest tragedy of the Homeland War since '91. For the Croats, this unfortunate conflict of which the only benefit was large-scale Serbian politics. And getting into all the details now would require another session, but I respect what you said and I know personally about what happened to you. I say, on the basis of certain documents, orders, the search was carried out mobilization. There were probably human rights violations, etc. But let's try to look at things completely. That's all I ask when we talk about the Homeland War.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19526	My colleague Jasen Mesic has a replica. ... Thank you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And colleague Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19527	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, Mr. Director, you forgot to tell him that first of all the Tudjman-Izetbegovic agreement dates back to '92. A year. The first agreement to discuss the help of the Croatian people to the Bosniak people. And military and all other help. Thousands of refugees that the Croatian state has taken care of and taken care of. We forgot to say that another exodus was actually prevented by the Croatian army after the signing of the second agreement which is from Split i.e. An agreement that saved Bihac and did not allow another Srebrenica. That's what we forget to say. We forget to say that, in fact, at the last minute, by signing the agreement and by the movement of Croatian forces in the summer of '95. and "Storm" another massacre of the Bosniak people in a bullish enclave removed. The Croatian sons died so that the Bosniaks could survive and survive. In the community, they certainly did a lot, perhaps it was bad, all of this in the Documentation Centre can be found and seen, given that most of the territory was freed, came to the greatest part of the documentation of all Serbians, but also many times and other armies that had their orders and directions and we believe that both in due course and on these essential facts and agreements you will write one book that the Croatian people did for BiH.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19528	Thank you very much. And a response to the replica, Mr. Nazor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19529	Mr. Representative, I haven't forgotten to mention it, we're all talking about it in our books, but it's not the subject of this report. And if you mention this agreement, I will now mention the agreement of 5 April is coming 13. The Corps in Mostar to prepare for aggression in the area, Mate Boban and Ali Izetbegovic sign a joint defence agreement at that local level on 6 April, the Mostar City Council gives you an accurate list of people, gives defence to the HVO and defends themselves jointly. Therefore, what I wanted to say was that what has yet to be explored, and in memory material and in conversations with very high officials, you have one interesting piece of information when President Tudjman and Demirel signed an agreement that was also meant to be reached in military cooperation. Then some things happened in Mostar that were not in the interest of Croats or Bosniak Muslims. Someone did it, but leave it for further research. It is certainly not, that during the Homeland War both today and tomorrow, the best benefits of the Croatian-Bosnian-Muslim conflict are those who advocate large-scale Serbian politics. And if we're going to learn something from history, then we need to think about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19530	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19531	Report on the work of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War for 2011. The debate on the report is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "A report on the work of the Croatian Memorial Documentation Centre of the Homeland War for 2011 is accepted". I'm asking you to state who's in favour of the proposed conclusion. Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the conclusion was accepted unanimously by 124 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19532	And we move to the next point - Report on the business of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2011 The report was submitted by the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. On the basis of Article 8. Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. You received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on War Veterans and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Would the proposal be explained on behalf of the Proposer? Deputy Secretary of Defence Mrs. Wesna Nadj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19533	Dear Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and distinguished MPs. You will be presented with a report on the business of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2011. The Governing Board of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families took the decision at its 94th session of 19 June 2012 on the adoption of the Report on the operation of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for the year 2011 by Erste Invest d.o.o. The report shows that 8 meetings of the Fund's Management Board were held by giving the most important decisions. The component of the report is also the information prospectus of the Fund from which the structure of the financial assets is visible, the financial position, the profit of the company for the management of Erste Invest d.o.o. on 31.12.2011 as well as the cash flows of the company. On 31 December 2011, the Fund had a total asset worth a billion 537 million 786 thousand 585 kuna of which the largest share of Croatian Telecom's shares amounting to a billion 384 million 680 971 kuna and 90% stake in the total assets of the fund. The Fund earned profits from its pre-tax business of EUR 133 million, while total revenues amounting to 134 million 433 thousand kuna. The total expenditures amounted to 4 million and 100000 kuna and relate to the compensation for the management of the custodian bank. In accordance with the Fund Act, most of the Fund's net profits from the Fund's investments are paid directly to the Fund's members depending on the size of their share. Most net profits are intended for development, social and humanitarian measures to improve the status of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, and a third of the net profits from investments are reinvested in the Fund. In accordance with the decision of the Governing Board of the Fund as well as the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Fund paid two-thirds of the 2010 profits totalling 143 million and 900 thousand 431 kuna of the total allocated amount of 71 million 950 thousand and 216 kuna was allocated in dividend for the owners of the share of the Fund. 64 million 755 thousand 194 kuna has been allocated to the Fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and children of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War, and 7 million 195 thousand and 21 kuna allocated to the Foundations of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families. During 2011, the Fund also paid the remaining third profit from 2009 out of a total of 82 million 529 thousand 687 kuna in dividends for the owners of the Fund's shares. That dividend was not paid in 2010 due to the provisions by which the dividend is paid to the giro accounts. During 2011, the Fund made a payment of 191 million 691 thousand 519 kuna, down by 240 million 661 thousand and 770 kuna compared to 2010. The Fund’s financial reports were audited by an independent auditor who assessed that the Fund’s financial report was truthfully and fairly showing the Fund’s financial position on 31 December 2011, and its financial results and cash flow for the year which was then completed in accordance with international financial reporting standards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19534	Thank you very much. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? A colleague, Josip Djakic, on behalf of the Committee on War Veterans.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19535	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister. The Council of War Veterans of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its 5th session held on 25 October 2012 a report on the operation of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2011 in accordance with Article 8. Law on the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families submitted by the Management Board of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and their family members with an act of 2. July 2012. In accordance with Article 87, the Committee discussed the act in question as a parent working body. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The Committee held the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the act in question. The Fund's assets on 31 December 2011 amounted to a billion 537 million 787 thousand kuna, 510 million 877 thousand kunas less than a year ago. Obtaining from the operations of the Fund is intended for distribution. The amount is 133 million kuna, down by 82 million 787 thousand kuna compared to 2010. The number of shares on 31 December 2011 was 2 billion 248 million 632 thousand 365, down from 2010 by 257 million 973 thousand 679 shares. During 2011, two thirds of the 2010 profits, i.e. around 144 million kuna, were paid for the distribution to participants, which was paid for the scholarship fund and the foundation of Croatian defenders, one third of the 2009 profits, intended for payment to the owners of the stake. Due to the change of data in the register of the fund by about a thousand and 500 people who are being viewed in the change in the increase in the number of points for owners of the recognition of the status of the deadly Croatian defender, or the change in the war route, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has transferred the shares of companies worth 8.5 million kuna. In a brief discussion followed by committee members, they had no objections to the report but were interested in what result is expected in this year, primarily for the further payment of scholarships to defenders and their children through the Scholarship Fund, i.e. payment of financial assistance to social and health-threatening defenders and their family members through the foundation of Croatian defenders. The fund management company's representative stated that the current value of the fund's assets is around 1.2 billion kuna, resulting in a decline in the value of the HT stock, which account for more than 87% of the value of the fund. When, after obtaining a positive assessment, i.e. confirmation of the stock price, the price has been stabilised and slightly growth is expected to be at the level of the fund at last year's level, or slightly lower. Up to today, about 60% of the shares have been sold, and the monthly fund pays for that purpose about 7.5 million kuna. The number of fund members currently stands at about 300 thousand, as some defenders have not sold their stakes, which basically makes something below 50% of the participants. After the discussion, the committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the following conclusion: a report on the business of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19536	Thank you very much. And just stay here, colleague Djakic. On behalf of the HDZ club Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19537	Madam Vice-President, the distinguished deputy Croatian Defence Minister, the Croatian Democratic Community club will unspeakably support the report on the work of the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families, as well as in the practice so far, bringing extensive information on the value of the fund, obtaining business for their distribution, the number of shares, payments, and other data that are of particular importance to Croatian defenders and members of their families. The report noted that the fund's assets on 31 December 2011 amounted to a billion 537 million kuna, 510 million 877 thousand kuna less than a year ago, profit from the fund's business is intended for distribution of 133 million kuna, which is a reduction of 82 million 787 thousand kuna compared to 2010. The number of shares on 31 December 2011 amounted to 2 billion 248 million 632 thousand 365, down from 2010 by 257 million... Thousands and 689 shares. [[You don't understand.]] During 2011, two thirds of the 2010 profits, i.e. around 144 million kuna, were paid to be distributed to the participants, which was paid for the grant fund and the foundation of Croatian defenders one third of the 2009 profits to be paid to the owners of the stake. Due to the change of data in the fund register for about a thousand and 500 persons who are... in the change, increasing the number of points for the owners of the stake, recognising the status of the deadly victim of the Croatian defender and the change in the war... [[You don't understand.]] The government of the Republic of Croatia transferred the fund to shares of companies worth 8.5 million kuna. [[You don't understand.]] The Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families, with the exception of allowing Croatian defenders and members of their families to receive certain funds through dividend payments, also scholarships the education of the children of the defenders, but also the defenders themselves, which is the most noble purpose of the fund for this very reason is the exceptional importance and opinion of an independent auditor who, in his report, pointed out that the financial report shows the financial position of the fund on 31 December 2011 and its financial results and money flow for the year which then ended in accordance with international standards of financial reporting. However, concerns should be expressed regarding the fall in the value of the fund's assets relative to last year and all necessary actions should be taken so that the scholarship of children and defenders should not be compromised in any way, although the value of the fund's assets depends on the value of the stock, in particular the HT, which accounts for more than 87% of the value of the fund, the founder of the fund or the Government of the Republic of Croatia should not allow major disturbances that would significantly reduce and jeopardise the financial opportunities provided by the Fund to defenders and members of their families, and in particular the scholarship of their education. The government should also prevent, i.e. not allowing any form of obstruction of the usual stable functioning of the fund, especially when it comes to payments to defenders and their children, funds from the fund primarily to pay off scholarships, reminding us this year that the payment of scholarships has been inadmissible for a long time, we believe that the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families must not be subject to a change of government or similar circumstances, and that in continuity it must meet the purpose for which it was established. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community will support this report on the operation of the fund, which is particularly impeccable in 2011, and we expect that in the observed and presented problems in the business with which the Fund met several accounts, as well as to prevent and prevent them from repeating them. Such mistakes that have been made and long-term in decision-making as well as the completion of the trust management board, which is a trust fund, and not the Government of the Republic of Croatia must certainly be based on the fact that the heads of state associations will be those who will fill the fund management board, who will decide on the assets of the fund, who will decide on investments that will also accept or initiate to continue 7% of the shares of all state-owned companies, if it is Croatia's insurance or if it is HEP or perhaps the Post Bank will be owned by the Fund in order to continue this humanely good function of the Croatian defenders' fund, which the previous government and employees of the ministry have made it appropriate and good for the defence population, their children, for their education, for their training, training and education. I hope that the social assistance that passes from the foundation will also be the subject for which, if HT shares fall, they will continue in this year and the inability to continue their scholarship and the number of scholarships, so that the government will have to intervene from its resources in order to allow children of Croatian defenders who achieve legal opportunities to receive a timely scholarship and to be able to study. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19538	Thank you, colleague Djakic. On behalf of the Club of Croatian Labourists, Party of Work colleague Mladen Novak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19539	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I will begin my presentation with a statement made by Josip Glavas first man Erste Investa on May 28th paying off this year's dividends the lowest since the fund exists. Now why is it the lowest since the fund exists, in order to determine this I will use the text of one of the associations of the ancients of the Homeland War, which in their open letter of 14 March to the entire Croatian public, among other things, I demand the responsibility of those who sold the Croatian defenders and victims without their consent, and they bear special responsibility by leaving the management package to the Hungarian MOL. These are all members of the Croatian Defence Fund who voted unanimously for it, not just Jadranka Kosor. That's what I'm reading from the text that was written. ... It doesn't matter. It's public. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Speaking of which, since the contribution to the Croatian defenders' fund is less than in previous years, and at the 18th session of the Management Board held on 2 November 2011, the proposed change in terms of the reduction in the amount of scholarships is due to the fact that we are not just dependent on the situation of the HT on the stock market, that there is also an INA which, if I am not mistaken today, is their 4 thousand kuna, the value of their share, which would then be the income of this fund, would also be to reduce scholarships to children who are using scholarships from that fund. The question is whether INA would be at this level today, at which point it is, whether INA in Sisak would be questionable for the future, and also whether it would be a questionable job for defenders working in the same INA. The new way of appointing the fund management board by Minister Predrag Matic also cannot be accepted by reading the same statement because we have indicated that even the old model in which these representatives name the association is not legal or democratic. We can only accept it as a short-term solution that has made it impossible for the old board of directors to do even more damage, only as a transitional solution in force as soon as possible to convene the assembly of participants in one of the ways known in the world and applied in the processes of managing large companies and similar funds. Well, now I'd like to remind you of my argument some time ago when we mentioned these same associations, which is why people suggest they don't run the association. Well, because it's the usual way for these associations to be chosen, i.e. the leaders of these associations, not all of them, not all of them, but some, the leaders of the minority to always stay the same, to choose always the same, and to be appointed to the maltenes are always the same by the thick support of their political medals. The fund assembly has never been held in any known form, and the fund has no supervisory board. I read, I read. I read what people warn about. The fact is, the board of directors doesn't exist. Why there's no such thing as it is and the law isn't supposed to exist, which is just as strange to me as it is. In the case of sales, defenders are somewhat discriminated against because they must sell their shares to Erste Investa and they are disabled to offer their shares on the free market. And in the end, I will. That's good, thank you. In the end, I'll just read one more thing, and that's the conclusion that you yourself said, that this report lacks more essential and concrete information on how to manage the shares, and more information on how to distribute funds from the fund and scholarship children and other activities of the fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19540	Two replicas to your exposure. He is the first colleague, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19541	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In fact, it takes my replica to remove this meal and the untruths that have been spoken in this whiskey house. Namely, I was a member of the Management Board of the Fund in front of the Croatian Parliament, such as someone today. The Law on the Croatian Defence Fund clearly defines what a fund is, which is a foundation, which is a scholarship fund. It is clearly determined in the competition by the most favourable bank or house or fund management company. So, that was, the cheapest was ERSTE INVEST who got the trust and led immaculately to these days, as DELLOITE as an auditory house independent and describes. Everything that has been done has been done in the interest of Croatian defenders. The sale of shares of INA is not because MOL would have received majority property because it had not been obtained either, nor had it been obtained with those shares, but because there were 30 % and some of the requests for redemption i.e. for the sale of shares. And it couldn't have been credited to the fund because it wouldn't have done business like that, it would have been allowed to go into debt or go into debt, so we're paying off with the credit funds of the shareholders who were selling their shares, the fund would have disappeared in a hurry and there would be no sign of him anymore. Just like that Homeland Fund disappeared. We kept it even though it was an attempt. Governance – it is clearly defined by the Rules of Procedure as well as by the Rules of Procedure as to who will be representatives of defence associations that have the majority in the Management Board of the Funds, the majority. 28 main roof associations selected by their main municipal, urban, county and state-run presidents agreed that the Regulation also defined the views on who would be four representatives or five representatives of the associations representing the interests of the defenders. It is not defined that the assembly is made up of all participants, but representatives of Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19542	Thank you. Answer
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19543	Madam Vice President, please, just one more word. ERSTE didn't buy anything. The fund was buying and paying, and ERSTE was only a service that worked in the interest of Croatian defenders. Nobody's left behind, the sixth day of the stock price that is, and what happened to the HT stock drop at 110 kuna with 250 kuna you don't understand. You probably don't understand what the capital market is.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19544	Thank you very much. The answer to the line of Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19545	Thank you very much. You obviously hear what you want to hear, I've been telling you all along that some things are prescribed, but they're not fair, they're not right. ... So it's the law, and what do you mean it's the law? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, Hitler had a law that said to liquidate the Jews. So don't talk nonsense, if we claim that something in the law isn't right, then we're asking for something to change. Are you saying that the sale of INA shares was also correct and fair? I agree anyway. [[Intruder: In any case.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19546	And the next replica of my colleague, Zvonko Milas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19547	Thank you very much. Well, I had to get back to you because I know a lot of people on the board of trusts, although I wasn't a member, so this rhetoric I don't doubt Mr. Novak's good intentions, but it's precisely on the trail of what we were saying in the subject that preceded it, we're talking about the groundbreaking, I don't doubt the good intentions of whoever wrote it, but we're talking about some things at the moment. If that's how I think INA was about 2800 kuna at the time, and something had to be sold. Whether it's HT or INA in order for people around 33% of the fund members to pay off, something had to be sold, something had to be solved. So why no one, six months the price of INA was 900 to 1,000 kuna, so why didn't anyone buy that stock? And what about the fund at the time when INA cost 900 kuna, and regardless, it had to pay 33% of shareholders or shareholders. Let's let the stories go. The law has passed here this house has brought it here as we pass the laws, we have no idea if they are good or bad but we have to implement them. And these were conducted honestly, believe me. I know that, I wasn't directly inside, but that's how it is. And in the end, either your defenders or I don't know who's saying why can't I get this right away? Look, you have your own land where you want to build a house or I don't know what, but you sure as hell build it the way the state tells you to, right? So imagine what would happen to HT, with the INA that we let us run it and decide for ourselves what we're going to do and how we're going to do it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19548	Replication response, colleague Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19549	Well, my colleague, I'll just answer to, I don't doubt it at all, we've talked a lot, I don't doubt your good intentions at all, and I don't think I'm half-limin' about it, but you have one absurd thing that you just mentioned. You sell your shares, but when you sell them, what's the payout deadline? ... No, not when you sell the shares on the stock market. What's your deadline? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You get the money in 24 hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19550	Thank you. In an individual discussion, my first colleague, Zvonko Milas. You have a word.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19551	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I don't think it's necessary to talk too much about this report, I'm really going to talk about it for a while. The report is correct and clear. This is exactly why I would say two, three words about this fund. So, this fund has been there for eight years and I think it's one of the best projects that's been made by the defenders together with the government no matter who it was and I think it's something that shouldn't be dirty no matter how. If something wasn't right, then it needs to be clearly and explicitly shown where it wasn't good, and I'm not saying it in some way that just doesn't fit the truth. The fund also produced a trust fund and a scholarship fund. So, this scholarship fund, I'm actually sorry, he's scholarshipd tens of thousands of defense kids. I don't think the media is saying anything about it. That's the sad side. Let's say we have scholarships that are equally commendable I don't know before the National Five Scholarships, it's pomp, it's not a commercial. This one's nowhere to be found. The defenders themselves scholarship their children, the children of their friends, so he's the solidarity of the defender again, showing what people are and what they are. The foundation that we have today, which helps the most, therefore, most socially endangered, today is water, is employed by a full-time young man, I can tell him his name is Boris Herman, he's the child of the deceased defender, all the other children of the deceased defenders are therefore employees, and I think it's the most valuable thing that could really be born from that fund, and that this is the purpose of that fund, so that we hire our children, that they decide how and who needs to understand their value, or the value of what their fathers did for this country. Finally, I will mention the same thing, according to the announced sales, I do not know the parts of the public companies of Croatie, or the Post Office, etc. I think that according to the law we often mention, the government will continue to be benevolent to the population for which it is intended, and will continue to give 7% of the share of the defences. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19552	Thank you very much, colleague Milas. And last in an individual debate, colleague of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19553	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister. I'm glad I can say a few words about this fund report, the work of the fund last year. I am sorry that here the public will not actually hear any part of this debate, i.e. get some information from one of the largest, strongest and certainly best funds in the Republic of Croatia. I'm just reminding you, I think it's good, since there's been a debate today before me that points out that maybe even some fellow MPs don't understand until the end of what it's like to be a Croatian defender's fund. So I want to say a few words about the past, about how we created it, and remind my colleague here that the Croatian Defence Fund is based on the law, which was voted in the Croatian Parliament, that the clear law has laid down the way of establishment, that it has laid the foundations and, of course, set up a legal framework which every board of directors, which every board of the Croatian Defence Fund, each minister of the Croatian defences of the sea, and each government must certainly adhere to. We decided then, I think it was one of the most important and best decisions of the Croatian government, when we talk about Croatian defenders, that the best shares, so 7% of the shares of the INA and 7% of the shares of HT were introduced into the Croatian defenders' fund, and that huge property allowed the fund, I often compared it with the parents, so the fund as parents, as mother and dad, to be the founder and actually the initiator of the foundation of Croatian defenders and the fund for the scholarship of Croatian defenders. I will mention the way in which funds are actually poured into both the trust and the scholarship fund, so according to the decision, that is, according to the law, and then the decision of each time of the board of directors is one third, income is reinvested, one is shared to the participants, and one third of course goes to the foundation, or to the scholarship fund. A large number of children, more than 10 thousand and high school and students, and invested in this large project of more than 210 million kuna, have been funded through the grant fund. All this certainly wouldn't have happened if it hadn't been for the Croatian defense fund, and I repeat that the best shares were not entered into the fund. Because there's a certain misunderstanding about why we were selling shares, here's a chance to say something about it too. So the decision on the sale of shares of INA was not made either by Jadranka Kosor at the time as Minister and Vice-President of the Government, but by a proposal from the management company such as Djakic also mentioned the chosen one in the competition, so it was absolutely the best offer on the management company's proposal, so companies that are of course professional and active in the stock market deal, and of course understands all the consequences, we made a decision on the sale of those 7% shares. Why? The price was at that moment, so the offer was 2 thousand 800 kuna. No one has ever been able to explain to any Croatian defender and members of the families of the dead, imprisoned and missing Croatian defenders who are participants in the fund why the property when the stock prices have fallen is actually halved. So it's not the same if the stock is worth 2 thousand 800 or if it's worth e.g. a thousand and 300 kuna. And that's why such a decision was made, it was a good decision, it was the only possible decision. I want to say here that this decision was made by either myself or any of the colleagues who participated in the work of the board of directors on the basis of any, any pressure or insistence, and there was speculation in the Croatian public, it was simply a decision that was necessary for the continued functioning of the fund because Croatian defenders naturally submitted requests for the purchase of their shares and, in that sense, the fund must at every day work, allow people who wanted to get their money. What is important for this moment since at the end of last year the property was slightly larger than a billion kunas said that the defenders understood very well which benefits, which were the contributions of the Croatian defenders' fund and despite the announcements at the start of the operation and the work of the fund, that all defenders would at some point redeem their shares which we see did not happen. It has already been mentioned that the great importance of the fund is precisely in the ability to generate the foundation, meaning to support defenders who are most vulnerable, to support families with more children who are also defenders, defenders who have sick family members, but also a scholarship fund. So I think that the moment when the government should start to think about how the Croatian Defence Fund will continue to live, whether it will be able to live, whether it will be able to survive, and whether it will survive already now and in the trust board of directors, but, of course, in the Ministry of Croatian Defence, it will make one plan on how the fund will and will, and whether it is of course the government's intention to survive and to further redeem the stakes that I believe in view of the crisis and since many people in Croatia have difficulty in living continue to intensify. And finally, I also want to say that the stocks were not sold to Erste Invest, so they were not sold to the bank, Erste I repeat once again was a management company, so the company that proposed certain decisions, but, but the defenders did not sell their shares, but they sold their shares and there were very clear and precisely prepared criteria on who could get it, therefore, given that whether the volunteer, given the time of participation in the Homeland War, and whether a member of the family was killed, imprisoned, missing Croatian defender, was how many shares. And that is the truth, therefore, to be clearly repeated continuously, because it is very dangerous to sell shares of INA that were owned by Croatian, Croatian defenders' funds INA came into someone else's hands. It's simply not true, and I repeat once again, never anyone of me, nor any of my colleagues in the fund, or in the body they run, has neither been pressured nor forced to do so. This sale was in the best interest of the fund, and in the best interest of Croatian defenders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19554	Thank you, dear colleague Kosor. At your presentation Josip Djakić has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19555	Here, Mrs Kosor, my colleague, I would just like to stress that a total of over 40,000 scholarships have been paid over the past years to Croatian defenders, their children, and that is over 40,000 students this year and a slightly reduced number of those who have achieved a scholarship in view of the decline in HT shares and the inability to pay all 12 thousand and 800 that they have sought. The criteria for the acquisition of the scholarship had to be strengthened to get those most vulnerable, who can actually meet the standards introduced by the ministry and the fund. I want to say that the sale of INA shares, and I personally as an ex-employee sold mine, because it was the biggest price at that time to make the biggest profit, given the 2 thousand and 800 kuna per share at that time or thousands and 300 later, it was a huge and insurmountable difference, so we would be responsible for not having done at the right time, because we couldn't primarily redeem the shares of all those who offered their market, and who were giving, not on the market but who offered the ransom fund and certainly wouldn't have the ability to do business as positive as it is now. And to say that although there was a requirement that those who had sold their share of funds and scholarships as well as trusts, we stayed at the standstill as well as today's board of directors of the trust fund and president of the board of directors and ministers of Croatian defenders that, despite the fact that 58% of the participants sold their shares, they were still members of the fund and expect a new entry, because we believe they did not sell because they had... Obedience to gamble or to spend on stupidity, rather than because they were in such a social situation to help themselves in further life and work. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19556	Thank you. No answer? Thank you very much. On behalf of the motionary, Deputy Minister of State Ms. Wesna Nadj.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19557	Dear Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. So the Croatian Defence Fund and members of their families have an initial humanitarian and social function, so a third of the net gain goes to humanitarian and social purposes, as regards the scholarship of children of Croatian defenders from Homeland and members of their families, and this year we will try not to make the number of scholarships smaller, so this year it is not less than 9 thousand scholarships, so it was no longer possible, given the level of the price of the HT shares that fell compared to last year, but we will try to make sure that the number is not reduced and that it is somewhat earlier than, so much earlier than this year, given the change in power and since there has not been an update of the documentation in time, that is not at all carried out, nor the Croatian defence fund, nor the scholarship fund. As regards the Law on the Croatian Defence Fund of the Homeland War and the further strategy for the development of the Fund, the Management Board of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families has asked the competent ministries to appoint members in the Working Group, an inter-resor working group that would consider the strategy for the development of the Fund and propose changes or, and to supplement this law, since we have seen that this law has some shortcomings that limit the work of the Fund, i.e. a reduction in the number of shares. So not only did the Management Board consider this year a further strategy for the development of the fund, but the Government of the Republic of Croatia was also directed by the Governing Board by a requirement that any future privatisations should bear in mind that Croatian defenders from the Homeland War have the right to participate in possible privatisations. So, the Management Board is considering further development of this fund, not considering closing the fund, and this humanitarian and social component will continue to be the primary in the reflections of the Governing Board of the Croatian Defence Fund and the Management Board of the Scholarship Fund as well as the foundations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19558	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19559	Report on the operation of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2011. The debate on the report is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: - A report on the business of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families for 2011. Please raise your hand and let us know who the proposed conclusion is. Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that the conclusion was accepted unanimously by 124 votes in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19560	We're moving on to the next point. This is - A report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds secured in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2011 for the needs of national minorities The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted a report on the basis of Article 37. The law on the rights of national minorities. You received the proposal by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committees on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, both for Finance and the State Budget. You received the report at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to explain the report in an introductory manner? Minister of Administration, Mr. Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19561	Dear Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I present the 2011 report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. There is some historical justice in view of how much I criticized the government in the previous term, so I now have to present a report that is positively intrinsically intrinsic in that part. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia shall comply with the provisions of Article 37(3). The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities shall, at least once a year, submit to the Croatian Assembly a report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds provided in the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for the needs of national minorities. This is the eighth edition of the report submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Parliament. Analysing the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds provided for by national minorities in the 2011 State Budget, it can be concluded that activities have been carried out in all areas that have contributed to the improvement of the protection of the rights of members of national minorities secured by the Constitutional Law. The report shows that the greatest progress has been made in those areas where the high level of implementation of the Constitutional Law is regularly achieved, i.e. the area of education and education in the language and letter of national minorities, the cultural autonomy of national minorities, the achievement of the religious rights of national minorities, the representation of members of national minorities in representative and executive bodies of the unit of local and regional self-government, the implementation of the National Programme for Roma and the Decade Action Plan for Roma inclusion 2005 through 2015, and the area of development of tolerance towards diversity and the fight against discrimination. It is also evident that during 2011, no satisfactory progress has been made in the area of the use of language and letter of national minorities, access to national minorities through means of public communication, representation of national minorities in the authorities of the state administration, and slowed down and difficult to carry out activities on the establishment of the register of Councils of Coordination of Councils and representatives of national minorities, as well as entries in that register. During 2011, a significant shift was made in improving the quality of teaching in the language and letter of national minorities through co-financing of copyright textbooks in the Czech, Hungarian, Serbian and Italian languages and co-financing of a number of required textbooks for primary education. There is a particularly visible shift in the education and education of Roma national minorities where the scope of Roma children is increased at all levels of the educational system. The analysis of activities carried out during 2011 focused on ensuring the cultural autonomy of national minorities indicates the systematic promotion of national minorities and their active and equal contribution to cultural life. In the areas covered by the National Programme for Roma and the Decade Action Plan for Roma Inclusion during 2011, a further positive shift has been made, and intensive activities have been undertaken in the implementation of support projects to Roma funded through the pre-accession EU programmes during 2011 to inform residents about the legalisation process and to remove obstacles to the access of users to the established infrastructure. The relevant representation of members of national minorities in the representative and executive bodies of local units has been fully achieved, however, in the administrative bodies of local units although there has been a slight increase in representation of members of national minorities it is necessary to step up inspection measures for those units which did not plan to employ the required number of members of national minorities in their 2011 reception plans. The share of members of national minorities in state administration authorities and the professional services and offices of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is insufficient. The reduction in the gradual share of members of national minorities in 2011 compared to 2010 has contributed to a reduction in the total number of civil servants and subsistence workers, the registration of fewer members of national minorities who have called for the right to take advantage of a public service employment bid and the fact that a decision on the ban on new employment of civil servants and subsistence in state administration bodies, professional services and offices of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is still in force in 2009. This generally resulted in a smaller number of new employment in state administration authorities during 2011, and thus a smaller number of newly employed members of national minorities. Furthermore, the situation is estimated to be unchanged on the issue of the official and public use of language and letter of national minorities compared to 2010. Therefore, following the adoption of guidance for the consistent application of the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities in the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary to strengthen the targeted supervision of the lawfulness of works and acts of the body in all local units which are obliged to ensure the right of national minorities to the equal use of languages and letters. It is further noted that for the work of councils and representatives of national minorities in 2011 a total of less funding was allocated from the local units budget than in 2010, particularly in areas of special state concern. The establishment of a register of the Council of Coordination of National Minority Representatives in November 2011 at the Ministry of Administration created assumptions for the financing of minority councils and representatives in units of weaker economic development from the state budget and will be implemented in 2012. The government made one decision in that direction today. In the area of the fight against discrimination during 2011 there is a further improvement in the normative framework by introducing a new basis for discrimination in the Criminal Law of October 2011. In accordance with the constitutional and fundamentals laid down in the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, a protocol on the conduct of a hate crime was adopted, thus fulfilling the obligations arising from the signing of international documents and the obligations arising from the negotiating position of the Republic of Croatia for Chapter 23. — Justice and fundamental rights sub-measure 9, point 2., point 1. Finally, efforts have been made in 2011 to make fuller exercise of the rights of members of national minorities. Despite the unfavourable economic and social situation as well as some objective circumstances that have made the implementation of certain activities difficult and slowed down as a whole, it can be seen by making satisfactory progress in the exercise of the rights of members of the national minorities secured by the Constitutional Law. More financial resources have been provided for the implementation of the Constitutional Law in 2011 compared to the previous year. In 2011, 142 million 728 thousand 834 kuna and 65 limes were secured, while 139 million 899 thousand 67 kuna and 65 limes were allocated in 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19562	Thank you. Does the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We're going to a club debate. It's the first club of the SDSS and a colleague of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19563	Mr. Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs The report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities is obviously a very complex thing because the introduction here was announced that some cases here may, if necessary, involve as many as 6 ministers as rapporteurs from some of their resolutions. But, well, I'm perfectly pleased that he came here tonight, the minister I greatly appreciate, and I think he's going to be in a very interesting situation here. So far, he's been able to attack, or criticalally look back, or even quite fiercely in some situations, criticizing reports like this, and now he's in a position to defend it. I think that's good, I think behind this will probably make some kind of shifts in the realization of those things that we're going to try to make here as something that isn't finished, something that needs to end up in meeting the basic elements of the constitutional law relating to a group called representatives, or national minorities in the Republic of Croatia. So far, we have had eight occasions to discuss such reports, and if it were an opportunity to agree and to compose, we could probably see how complex things are, complex issues, we would see the activities that the current authorities in all these 8 reports are taking, and we would get to certain deadlines, even the category of Action Plan that the current governments have committed to certain activities and have given themselves some deadlines, terms, tax-listed problems that need to be solved, etc. Therefore, we would have an interesting picture to see whether we are progressive and at what rate we are increasing the exercise of minority rights under the provisions of the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities. These reports would read, in my opinion, two basic conclusions, i.e. First, that society is a community and we as a legislative body have created both material and legitimate assumptions for a consistent respect for the rights of national minorities. So we argue that the legal frameworks are very correct, well in some segments even above some of the standards to which the EU is called. In the second part of what is the problem of these reports when we analyse them, which is called concrete realization, we then come up with questionnaires and say some institutions of local, regional self-government and even the central authorities as well as responsible individuals in all these institutions we have the impression that they are carrying out one policy that could be said to be called non-execution, constraint or even obstructing the implementation of the prescribed legal obligations. So that's it. When a good legal model, we set up good legal frameworks we will not and do not want to properly implement them on the ground then we get this report on the state of enforcement and the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the rights of national minorities, and no one has been sanctioned so far for this failure to comply with their prescribed legal obligations. So the executive government probably thinks there's progress in resolving the position of national minorities. It does exist when compared from the first to the eighth report, and national minorities think that the time has come for their position to finally be resolved in a way that respects the laws that we ourselves have passed. So, no more but no less than the level we set when we passed certain legal regulations. I will back it up by entering only a few segments and society and position, but also the reports of this one that is before us. So in Chapter 2, we have equal official use of the language and letters of national minorities and the official rapporteur, so the ministry says specifically: "The Ministry of Administration estimates that no significant changes have occurred during 2011 regarding the harmonisation of the statutes of units of local self-government with the relevant provisions of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the Law on the Use of Language and Letters of National Minorities. And then there's some kind of positive example of the community... which have in practice applied the use of bilingual inscriptions but did not comply with their statutes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One logical question arises who is who can act against positive regulations. If there's a local self-government right to define something to a particular national minority who can say no, we won't do it. It's a fundamental question, and that's where everything comes from. It is also said in the second part that the number of first and second-degree procedures in front of administrative authorities using the language and letter of national minorities during 2011 was kept at a very low level primarily due to the lack of interest of members of national minorities. I wouldn't say that. I don't think this is about lack of interest, but it's still about some kind of avoidance of discomfort in the realization of these rights. I'd like to make a mistake, but I don't think I'm wrong about my condition on the ground. So the negative experiences of the Istrian County are further listed here, so the Vukovar County is conducting all of this. Then we have here in the report in one section where it's said during 2011. The Ministry of Administration did not implement the action plan, and the action plan gave itself some obligations, obligations that we, as members of the national minorities, supported and we expected that the concrete implementation of that part of the right agreed. Therefore, measures of the action plan were not implemented as a guideline was awaited. That guidance was adopted 1.3.2012 after one year. These measures were still not implemented in this regard. I say it responsibly because we have a situation that the Vrgin Bridge municipality wants to rename its own, has a decision of its council, wants to change the name, to rename, to return to the old name. So we have a political decision, we have a legal decision. And we also have an obstruction by a state-run institution, a public-owned company that needs to become one. For a year they won't set it up and try to stop that thing. So we have legal frameworks and we don't implement them. And that's the essence of some kind of discussion we're having. We have education and education in the language and letter of national minorities. So, education and education is a matter for national minorities to preserve national identity and let that be understood. It is very, in this report very general and are thoroughly explained a, b and c models, schools etc. Of course, quite the funds here have been invested and properly allocated by the state to ensure that members of national minorities in the field of education meet the standards that belong to them. I here say yes, but not until the end. Because for certain categories, therefore, the Serbian national minority is not finished until the end. A persistent, persistent attempt to obtain school and kindergarten registration in the Serbian language and letter. However, local self-government, or regional self-government as their founder, has been obstructing it for years. I congratulate and envy fellow Hungarian national minorities and Italians who do not have such problems. I don't know why they should have members of the Serb national minority for the same thing, and education is done in the domicile, so in the Croatian letter, is done according to the programme. It is done not by letter but by teaching programme, it is done according to education according to textbooks in the Republic of Croatia. I don't see what the problem is. The problem is in the local will, that is, the will and lack of will to arrange it in this way. Right in that section that speaks of the right to manifest our faith and to establish religious communities we have one correct statement in the Republic of Croatia. A high level of religious freedom has been achieved. I absolutely think so. I think it's a very correct assessment, but what we need to talk about is the fact that not all religious communities have been returned all property. So here are the amounts allocated to the budget for the functioning of religious communities. They can be made enough, but they are in practice not enough. But definitely the problem is that all religious communities have not yet fully recovered their assets. If they were allowed to return the property correctly, they would probably have some additional sources of revenue and would be disbursing the state budget in that part. The representation of members of national minorities here mainly concerns employment. That's the thing that's most interesting. In some segments and the most painful for national minorities and through this employment representation, through the way they will be employed, through the feeling that you are fully equal with the majority of the people in competition for the same job is measured, a final assessment of the position of the national minority within that community is given. I will only say a few figures here that will tell what position the Serbian community is in today after so many years as regards employment in the public sector. So, in the judiciary, municipal courts, 2% representation of the employment of Serbs. County courts 2 and a half percent, Commercial none, Administrative Court none, High Violent No Judge, Violent Courts 8 Judges in the territory of the Republic of Croatia members of the Serb national minority. In the State's Attorney's Office 3%, officials out of a total of 7,000,100 Serbian officials work in the judiciary. That's probably what he's saying about what I said, so he's talking about equal chances for work. Are our chances of this moment being equal for employment? In the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Interior is an interesting situation, today there were talks on how many police officers work in Vukovar County. Yes, only in Vukovar and Osijek-Baranja to do some police officers of the Serb community because they were detained during a peaceful reintegration period. Where there was no obligation from a period of peaceful reintegration, almost no police officers work there. Why don't we have any police officers at the Police Department at Correspondence? Why don't we have in the Houses if that's the case? Here we have another interesting thing that's not listed here, which is unworthyness, a category of unworthyness. Members of the Serb community have a major problem with competition, competition for work in the MUP, although they have passed even the Police Academy because of the category of unworthyness. If someone in his family was unworthy of the MUP, he couldn't get a job even though he could have been the best member of the class at that police academy. The interns are a special story, so we have the impression that members of the national minorities in this situation when it's very difficult to get a traineeship they are even harder to get a traineeship. The question arises where these young educated people will begin their first day of work unless they are allowed to properly perform at least a traineeship. We have no data in the report belonging to the number of persons employed in education, health care, public enterprises, social services, etc., etc. This report does not contain. If the report said so, we'd see even more catastrophic data. Therefore, the general conclusion of national minorities, I speak on behalf of the Serb national minority, are being sub-represented at this point in the public service of the Republic of Croatia. Councils and representatives of the National Minority Council are something that has passed the electoral process. We have two things here, so the registration of these councils isn't over yet. Today, we have had a correct conversation with the minister where we will make a full review of the laws relating to both the council and the electoral procedure, the model of the election of the council. We think that it should be completed, that practice and life have brought some new content, some new facts, and that in this sense the regulation relating to the selection of the Council of National Minorities should be amended. It is also necessary to discuss how the Council of National Minorities is financed. We have information that somewhere in some areas, millions are allocated to councils, and somewhere they don't get basics money to pay their rent, or phone. Therefore, in this matter, if we want these councils to function seriously, we need a thing, a basic matter of funding to be leveled and standardised, to create a model for all councils to have an equal chance of functioning. And not to let it happen that in a city where the chief prefers a council over a minority party we give more money and then gives the council the possibility of having certain activities and automatically becoming competition with the minority party.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19564	Comrade Horvath, bring the place.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19565	Yeah, yeah. One more moment. Living care is one topic that deserves a lot of time, but what's important in that housing is to say there are problems. We've built this moment, we've restored the people of the house, we're asking them to pay for the legalization of the house from their own pocket, we're asking them to do the books and, of course, limit them to the elemental thing, which is the right to have. They can't have ten years of what used to be theirs, and now it's restored. These are the things that come out of this report. On behalf of the club, of course, we will accept this report and in the previous seven we have accepted in the hope that the ministry, or competent ministries, will try to correct this matter in some way in the coming period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19566	Thank you very much. The next club is the national minority, and colleagues Denes Soja and Nedzad Hodzic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19567	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Parliament, esteemed ministers, colleagues and colleagues. In connection with this report, I would like to highlight several moments, primarily related to cultural autonomy of minorities in the Republic of Croatia and in the second part concerning representation of members of national minorities in certain institutions and bodies. As far as cultural autonomy is concerned, it must be pointed out that all minority associations and the full financing of cultural autonomy, the operational part, is indeed solved in a satisfactory way and some major problems are objectively and not seen. Something is financed directly from the budget, something through the Council for National Minorities, further through the Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities and, of course, there are some sponsors who support these activities in the given environment. I think that there really is a very solid content of work, and I can first of all conclude it for the national minority that I represent. For me, however, a more complex problem is the protection of cultural goods, i.e. the provision of essential conditions for the operation of certain cultural associations with a specific view in a sentence relating to sacral facilities in the field of special state care, i.e. those areas that have been occupied. As far as these basic conditions are concerned, there are still some problems in some places where no quality facilities are provided, no culture homes built and in this respect we have some more difficulties and I think it is the minimum that should be resolved. I must further highlight the problems of the sacral objects. I'm a little sorry that there are few people now, but Mr. Dakic is here, so I'd like to point out a particular problem, and that's, say, about Laslovo. The place of Laslovo died, the Slavons know very well, no house remains. Here I have even found in the Voice of Slavonia and the publication of names that died there in the struggles and still four of them have not been found. It's a total of 69 people. And in this place the sacral objects have been rescheduled for 10 years almost and not yet been rescheduled, not because the politics of the Republic of Croatia does not support it, but I am convinced that this is because there is not enough engagement by local self-government and perhaps even from these locals. These people who died there, or those who happily survived, are all now. Then they were between 40 and 50, now they're over 70 years old. And if it doesn't work out in a relatively short time, a part of them won't even experience it entering that church that was destroyed, to experience it being made. I point out that now as an eclectic example where what should have been done has not been done. But I hope we can do it in a year, two days, and get rid of it. This other problem regarding representation of members of national minorities, I don't think there's any problem with representative bodies. Either they're insignificant, or they're in executive power. However, a colleague in front of me also spoke of it. As for state administration employees and in a broader sense in public services, there are certain problems. However, we must also point out that there are also objective moments because in these environments especially for jobs because these are more or less in the administration when a competition of 30 or 40 requests is opened, one may be found with regard to members of national minorities, and it is very difficult to enforce even though the law gives that particular guarantee. The law did not provide for the precise fact that Article 22 in a broader sense is to ensure that in large systems and institutions the workplace is secured in accordance with Article 22. The law on the rights of national minorities. And here the report states that in this respect one study was made, this Pilar Institute was doing it. However, there is no clear indication of what this is really about. Some 16% of the territory has been recorded and indicators say it's relatively satisfactory. However, we have no knowledge of this study. At least I haven't been able to get more accurate on that data anywhere. A plan has also been developed for the admission of these trainees, i.e. trainees. From 2011 to 2014 it says that 802 trainees will be employed during this period, but no annual plan has been made and now we have certain problems and bans in a certain way standing and impossible to employ. But I hope that it will be resolved quickly, because it is unacceptable that in one environment where national minorities make up 25% almost in the structure of the population, and in the administrative bodies in certain parts it practically works out of 20 officials one and when one does not have the ability to communicate. Despite the fact that 6,7 people have retired, there is no filling and that creates a particular problem. But I sincerely hope that this will be dealt with relatively quickly. Just two more sentences. As far as the census results are concerned, I simply can't understand it. The census was the beginning of the eleventh, 2011 and the results regarding these indicators related to national minorities in the report say that we will get at the end of 2012. In this era of computerization, etc. that it takes so long it's something amazing. And finally, I would not particularly like to comment on this part of the State-level Coordination Report. Here we have a rather complex situation most likely because of the ambiguity or lack of clear definition of certain provisions in the law. And I'm just hoping that she'll get rid of it quickly, because that's what we're about to do, and we're practically struggling about it. The minority elections were last year at 7 months, and now it is almost 11 months 2012 and still some coordination is not able to register, and the funds are secured for work. Therefore, I think that work should be done more effectively and hastily. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19568	Here you go, colleague Hodzic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19569	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, here I am, colleagues from the National Minorities Club and the SDSS Club actually said everything. I'm still going to apostrophe a few things to round up this topic. In fact, we are extremely pleased that all the religious communities in this country are equal and, if you remember, we have made little comment in this House when we hear sentences that this is a Catholic country. Of course, the Croatian people are majority, Catholic etc. It's not all questionable. But we also need to stick to some constitutional, legal principles. Funding religious communities is transparent. It's funded next to... The Catholic Churches are seven more religious communities, and that's all acceptable to us. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But we have one segment about access to the media, where we think there's actually one big reserve. It is said here on page 20 that in 2011 in the category of national minority programme in the Republic of Croatia is reserved, so here is the story of HRT, I suppose, reserved 4 million 890 thousand kuna, and 3% of the subscription is allocated for these minority programmes, and that in fact it is realized 2 and a half million. So only half of the funds are realized. I'm now asking the first question whether this second half is unrealized, planned, transferred for next year so we know. I guess not, but good guess, good. But we're going to obviously have the space to be in this year, in the coming years, to create better conditions for us to be more present in these media, and I'd like to pray that this is being taken care of. Of course, employment is the key thing. We, colleagues have already said extremely satisfied with the legal decisions. This may serve the country's pride, but implementation in practice, I would say, apart from this respect for the constitutional law on the rights of national minorities when it comes to elections for Parliament. Everything else is in denial and is not implemented in accordance with the law. It's a special story, my colleagues won't be mad at me, but Bosniaks who are the second most numerous national minority have 52000 employees in State Administration 70. 70 Bosniaks working. We talked a little bit about the Homeland War. I will be free to repeat this minority's contribution once again by acquiring certain circumstances. So, 1100 victims in the Homeland War. When you divide it into 70 seats in the state administration, you get that you should have given 15 lives for one job. So, I think this is one piece of information that sounds like don't get me wrong, it sounds a little bit, but I want it to sound like it's being taken care of because 70 Bosniaks in the state administration is absolutely a little bit special that in this same report we have one piece of information, and I'm just going to give it a little bit more. So, among the science doctors in 2010 I am particularly proud to point out a large number of minorities, Bosniaks were 8, so in 2010, they doctored 8 Bosniaks or promoted. One in technical sciences, one in biotechnical science, and four in social and humanist two, which is what he means if we repaint it to some kind of educational structure that safe material and staff have that we can please the jobs that appear in the state administration. And I'm asking you to take a little more care of that in the future. Of course, we too will try to apostrophe this with our members of the national minorities that when a competition appears, some kind of emphasis will also be placed on the application. But it means that this educational structure or cross-section of it certainly speaks of that we can participate in all kinds of jobs in the state administration. So, we'll take this report personally. My colleagues have their own attitude about it. As a club, we don't have a common position, so we'll do it our own way. However, we ask that, in the next period, Mr. Minister, if possible, we know of both the ban on employment and the economic situation in the country, but we ask that this segment be taken into account because we are still lacmus paper for the overall state of affairs in this society when it comes to human rights and minority rights. Tomorrow we'll be in the European Union where we'll be some kind of minority ourselves, so we're not even hard to understand anymore, I'd say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19570	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19571	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with the Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here's because this late hour I'm going to try to be brief, but I still think this is an extremely important question to be heard about and the position of the SDP club. So we have before us a report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the spending of State Budget funds for the needs of national minorities in 2011 which this time developed by the Single Government's Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. That's what two offices have done so far. The report is very extensive and I appreciate the good that after each chapter there is an assessment of the situation and recommendations for its improvements. Despite the problems facing Croatian society as a whole during 2011, significant efforts have been made to implement the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. This is seen by means of the state budget for the needs of national minorities, as well as in the activities undertaken by the Government and other state bodies to implement it. It should also be pointed out when we talk about finances that more funds have been provided for the implementation of the Constitutional Law in 2011 compared to the previous year. More specifically, in 2011, 142 million 726 thousand 834 kuna and 65 June were secured, while in 2010, the amount was almost 140, slightly less than 140 million kuna. Some events were extremely important for members of national minorities in 2011, and we can safely say that they marked 2011 and these are primarily a list of people we know to be extremely important because the censused citizens, among other things, declare themselves to be religious and national. Then parliamentary elections, i.e. elections for MPs in the Croatian Assembly of National Minorities and elections for councils and representatives of national minorities in local self-government units. I think we can freely conclude that, based on the data presented in the report, a real picture of how this Constitutional Law was implemented, i.e. the extent to which the rights of national minorities were legally guaranteed in the Republic of Croatia during 2011. In which areas a satisfactory progress has been made and where it is not and where the focus should be on the activities of competent institutions in the coming period. In accordance with the report, it can be found that the most done in the field of education and education, language and letter of national minorities, the achievement of the cultural autonomy of national minorities, the achievement of the religious rights of members of national minorities in representative and executive bodies of local self-government units, the implementation of the National Programme for Roma and the Action Plan for Roma inclusion 2005 to 2015, and the development of tolerance towards diversity and the fight against discrimination. However, we must say that there is no satisfactory progress in certain areas as well as the implementation of some programmes in practice. For example, the Roma programme is difficult to implement in part of their accommodation. There are cases that the Roma want to legalise illegally built settlements in which they live, built in an area that is not intended for that purpose. However, I am pleased to say that there is a shift in this field too, first of all, I would like to point out the personal involvement of our colleague Keatazi, who was right here in my county a few days ago working on it, so on housing, i.e. legalization of the Roma settlement in the area of Belisca. Furthermore, no satisfactory progress has been made in the area of the use of language and letter of national minorities since members of national minorities did not show any interest in the application of this law of guaranteed minority law in 2011 either. At the same time, the report shows that not all the necessary assumptions have been created for the exercise of this right. The report itself states that during 2011 the Ministry of Administration did not implement the measures set out in the Constitutional Law Action Plan concerning the official and public use of the language and letters of the national minorities because the implementation of these intentions was related to the preliminary adoption of the guidelines for the consistent implementation of the Law on the application of the law mentioned in 2011 which was adopted only on 1 March 2012, so NN No. 33/12. So only in this year has the new government provided the assumption that this law is being implemented. Also related to the adoption of the above-mentioned guidance on the report, the implementation of the planned measures targeted surveillance of the statutes of the local self-government units has been delayed and these measures will be implemented in 2012 instead of in 2011. However, certain units of local self-government have not yet brought their statutes into line with the provisions of the law, although they have been repeatedly warned, indicating that the state authorities will have to consider taking other measures provided for in the law. A suggestion for the following report is that more detailed examinations of the reasons why certain rights guaranteed by the Constitutional Law are not achieved in a satisfactory way so that more effective measures and activities can be taken in the coming period. Finally, the SDP club considers that the rights of national minorities guaranteed by the Constitutional Law are implemented at a satisfactory level. Of course, there is always room for improvement, but such reports as the debate on them are one of the ways in which problems in implementation of the Constitutional Law detect and offer solutions. According to this, the SDP club will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19572	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. It's my friend Veljko Kajtazi's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19573	Dear vice president, respected ministers, respected colleagues and colleagues. Let me say that as a parliamentary representative, I am elected to the 12th electoral unit and represent 12 national minorities of Austrians, Germans, Bulgarians, Romanians, Jews, Vlasa, Russians, Russian, Ukrainians, Roma, Turks and Poles. Because of similar and numerous problems of the Roma community more often than others, I apostrophe the community. That certainly doesn't mean I work less with the other 12 national minorities. I will discuss the 2011 report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and the spending of funds secured in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for the needs of national minorities. I'd like to highlight a few important facts regarding the Roma national minority. The report positively assesses the progress made in the areas covered by the National Programme for Roma and the Decade Action Plan for Roma inclusion 2005-2015. Furthermore, significant improvements have been made in the field of all levels of the education system, then in the field of health, unemployment, housing, but also in the control of violence related to the Roma community in the Republic of Croatia and discrimination. Part of the report also deals with funding from EU funds on projects to legalise Roma settlements. Reading the report on the funds spent during 2011 created a picture of large funds being spent on Roma in the Republic of Croatia, resulting in significant improvements in their position and social inclusion. Personally visiting every Roma settlement in the Republic of Croatia and speaking with local Roma activists, but also with certainty they can argue that there was no marked improvement in the situation of the Roma community in 2011. Unfortunately, we can also witness a number of serious incidents and an increased level of discrimination in the past and this year. It is positive that the state has increased the amount financed by improving the situation of the Roma, but if these funds do not eventually reach their end-users, the results of improvements in communities are lagging behind. We have to ask ourselves how these funds were spent. With regard to funding from European funds, it should be stressed that all projects have taken place in Međimurje County to improve the environment and conditions in Roma settlements. Here we are talking about an estimated amount of 37 million kuna, of which 70 to 75% of the waste is on funding from European funds while the government has participated with a 25-30% stake. Furthermore, all 9 million and 200,000 kunas spent on legalising Roma settlements by the Government of the Republic of Croatia were spent on 6 settlements in Međimurje County. I do not want to say that these funds are not needed by Roma in Međimurje, and a large number of Roma living in the rest of the Republic of Croatia are often even worse living in conditions that their settlements are not so famous and are located in remote, often isolated areas, for example in Slavonia and Baranja. However, to find Roma settlements completely forgotten by competent institutions should not go that far. Within two hours but in the very city of Zagreb there are dozens of locations that have not received a single kuna from pre-accession PHARE and IPA funds. I believe that money from the European Union funds needs to be distributed in a fairer way in order to be affected as many settlements and residents as possible regardless of their geographical location or accessibility. The next problem I want to point out is the fact that millions of amounts are often mentioned in the public which are funded by the Roma community in the Republic of Croatia. Among other citizens of our country who, day by day, are suffering from a crisis in the economy are becoming increasingly difficult. Such news is a feeling that the Roma are getting a lot of money and that the Roma are being treated better than other citizens, which is certainly not true. The situation on the ground in 2011 has not greatly improved, and this indication can certainly be confirmed for 2012 in which we have witnessed the many problems that Roma face throughout Croatia in everyday life. The economic crisis affects all citizens of this country, especially those who face even higher unemployment rates, poor healthcare, lower educational opportunities, and discrimination they face not only from members of the not only Roma population but also from the institution. For example, although they account for only 0.21% of the Roma population, they account for as much as 1.42% of the unemployed workforce in the Republic of Croatia. In these two years we have witnessed numerous incidents related to the Roma National Minority, starting with Skabrnja and Like, through Istria, to Međimurje, Slavonia and Baranja. We had a chance to find out something from the public media about some of the hardest. However, most of the problems that members of the Roma national minority face occur at the level of their daily life far from the eyes of the media, the public, but also the institutions of the Republic of Croatia. Once again, I want to reiterate that it is positive that this government has somewhat recognised the problems facing the Roma national minority. The fact is that in this short period, a part of the problems that Roma communities have been building up for decades. And in this light, it is positive that the amount of appropriations is increased. However, since funds such as these are not the aim of any public policy, I do not think that there is much room for improvement, especially in control and even redistribution of those same funds, and all in order to include as many end-users and their life communities as possible. I dare say it's a first step, and that's an asset insurance well done, but things have been scheduled in the implementation phase, which proves an unsatisfactory situation on the ground. For these very reasons, I am not inclined to support this report because it does not maintain a real state in the Roma national minority by showing it better than it actually is. While on the one hand, millions of amounts financed by improvements in the Roma communities in the Republic of Croatia are difficult to reach the Roma themselves and their living space. In public, a false and unnecessary illusion of the privilege of this national minority is being created. In this way, we will find it difficult to break the vicious cycle of poverty, discrimination and social exclusion, and close the gap in prosperity and living conditions between Roma and not Roma, and what the Republic of Croatia has committed to becoming a member of the Programme for Roma in 2005 and 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19574	Thank you, too. To this exhibition we will hear the replica of the distinguished representatives of the Sun Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19575	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Kajtazi, I believe you know I come from Međimurje County. He lives there, so what's known for now, and you know it's almost impossible to know more than 11,000 Roma and please, so in Međimurje live Roma, Croats, Hungarians, Serbs, Italians, and not Roma. So please, it is not right to call members of other peoples not Roma, so Croats, Italians, Serbs, Hungarians etc. I'd like to tell you something about the money invested in the County of Međimurje. That's right. You are right, however, you must know that the Međimurje County has applied pre-accession funds, that it was very active, that the municipalities were active, that the cities were active and that one of the reasons that the Međimurje County received so much money and I think that it is nothing bad but should only be stimulating for other environments that did not. But I would also like to draw your attention and invite you to come to Međimurje a little more often, to be there with our Roma, with our locals, and to have them as we do, and here I am also a county councilwoman inviting the mayor to address one letter to the government, to our respective ministries, that Roma cannot be just a problem of Međimurje or Međimurje County and that the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Youth and Social Policy must be involved. So, all the ministries with which it relates and so does the Prime Minister. So here I also point out this way to appeal that it is done because the Međimurje County cannot take care of Roma who do not comply with their obligations, the right to all equal, but also obligations equally for all. And pay for electricity, water, gas all that doesn't seem to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19576	Thank you, too. Now we'll hear the closing word of Secretary of the Honorable Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19577	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In fact, Col. Horvat mentioned how many members of the government and their deputies in a memo you received in the Croatian Parliament were actually set to participate in the debate and in the discussion by committees indeed a large number of colleagues and colleagues were ministers and deputies, whether their assistants participated in the debate. Of course at the plenary session it is a little harder to organise although, of course, the topic is quite important and therefore speaks of one period in 2011 when we remind it among others and the Constitutional Court abolished some provisions of the Constitutional Law. That's what I didn't want to talk about in the introduction. You also mentioned by your colleague Horvat that I was a representative and a critic. And I did, and I did it pretty hard. However, I held that simply the theme of the electoral system is not this topic. So, this is the 2011 Report and you better catch a little more social issues, and so my debate and, and that is, my initial presentation has been well-conceived. As far as the part of the electoral system is concerned, here on the benches is the proposal of the Law on Local Elections, which, among other things, gives for the first time if they remain at the level of the 2001 census, the right of the Roma minority to have a council member of the Međimurje County. So we go to one part even more than the Constitutional Law, and also in election rules we also tried to disable the manipulation of mandates either as a replacement, or as a positioning on the list to calculate it. So I believe that it will also somehow contribute to a more constructive approach to these topics. What I would also like to say is I think it's time, and it seems to me that this year is the 10th anniversary of the adoption of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities, so since 2002, which was passed in the Parliament. At the time, I thought there were 5 votes against representatives of the then Croatian party of rights, so the biggest consensus was reached on the basis of the Constitutional Law. Some solutions, therefore, may need to start to question, and today we have a meeting where we should go. Of course, wanting this topic to be no longer politically in any way daily, and I believe it won't. As far as employment is concerned, this problem is well known and there should indeed be something that we should do in the 2012 report at least in the indications we have an improvement. And so you mentioned the question of the name of the village of Vrgin bridge in the municipality of Iron, it is now called by law. So, the Municipal Council made a decision that was in their jurisdiction to change the name of the settlement of the Iron in the Vrgin Bridge and the Croatian Roads were to set up a board called the settlement. I don't know why it wasn't done, but I'm gonna ask the Minister of Traffic to intervene and do it. So, it simply shows a certain kind of disorientation of the state because the state institution, the state firm must respect the laws of the team more than the council has brought it, I think it was one vote against. So I believe it should be done simply. It shows in some way the state's order. I believe that will be settled. I'm sorry that Agent Kajtazi won't support the report, he probably has his reasons, and then it's up to us to work for 2012 the report is whether, if you want to show the real situation, then we'll see what it will be like compared to the current report. So it doesn't really matter what the report is, what it's going to be like when we present it. With hope, then, that the report will be accepted with one vote against or with abstention thanks to all who participated in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19578	I thank the minister. We'll vote on this report tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19579	Report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds secured in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2011 for the needs of national minorities. The debate on the report is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: - a report on the implementation of the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities and on the spending of funds secured in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2011 for the needs of national minorities is accepted. I'm asking you to raise your hand and tell me who's for the proposed conclusion. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you. I find that the conclusion was accepted by the majority of votes, 114 in, 4 against, and 6 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19580	We move to the next item of the agenda, which is - Report on the exercise of the right to legal aid and expenditure in 2011 The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted a report on the basis of Article 69. The law on free legal aid. You received the proposal by mail. The hearing was conducted by the Justice Committee. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy justice minister respected Sandra Artuković Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19581	Thank you very much. The members of the Board shall be appointed by the Council of Members of the European Parliament and of the Council. The Law on Free Legal Assistance The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted a report on the exercise of the right to legal aid and on the spending of funds in 2011. The report submitted consists of Chapter of the Legislative and Institutional Framework, Chapter of the exercise of the right to free legal aid and the spending of funds in 2011, the activities of the Ministry of Justice are shown, the assessment of the situation and the table of statistics in the annex is given. The law on free legal assistance and sublaws has established a system in which citizens are able to engage lawyers and obtain legal assistance for specific legal actions and ensure equal access to judicial and administrative procedures. Citizens shall apply for free legal assistance to the offices of the state administration in the county according to the place of residence and shall then, in the first instance, resolve the applications submitted. In the second degree of appeal, the Department of Justice, the Department of Free Legal Assistance, decides those solutions, and according to the law, the advisory body or the Committee for Legal Assistance has been established. In this second central part of the report, we presented statistics for 2011. These data are based on data from the application for free legal aid, and on reports from the Office of State Administration in Countys and annual reports from associations. Data have been provided on the number of applications received for free legal aid throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia and in each particular county, followed by data on the number of denied, rejected and suspended applications and the number of requests for free legal aid still in the approval procedure. Data have been provided by type of legal aid and by type of legal aid procedure in the past period. The part relating to users of legal aid provides statistics for users towards nationality and residence in view of the county. As regards legal aid providers, we provided information on the share in cases of legal assistance provided by lawyers and by associations in each particular county. In relation to associations, a way of registering associations and a way of funding in providing legal assistance to citizens has been described, and data on the number of cases of legal assistance from each individual association in the past year and on the amount spent for that purpose have been provided. The financial part of the report shows the structure of the costs of free legal assistance. The statistical section provided data on the funds allocated in the State budget for 2011 for the financing of the system of free legal assistance and on the budget of each individual Office of State Administration by county. In the fourth part of the activities of the Ministry of Justice, the most important activity of the Ministry of Justice has been described in the past year, which was the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Free Legal Assistance. The amendments were aimed at implementing the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. In fact, the right of citizens to access a court is a fundamental human right as defined in Article 6. The European Conventions for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and Article 29 of our Constitution, as each citizen has the right to decide on his fundamental rights and obligations by law an established and impartial court within a reasonable period of time and justice. And in order to ensure the right to access information, the right to access, in order to ensure this right, we have already had certain solutions that were not systematic, i.e. the right to free legal assistance was ensured through the Law on Lawyership, for example, or through the Law on Prosecution. And in 2008, we passed the Law on Legal Assistance. However, by its decision of 6 April 2011, the Constitutional Court established the non-constitutional nature of certain provisions of the 2008 Law on Free Legal Assistance and related to those provisions in 2011, the Ministry of Justice approached a comprehensive analysis of the Law on Free Legal Assistance and proposed certain amendments on the basis of the opinion of the Constitutional Court and, together with this, proposed amendments which have been shown necessary under this law. The Act amending and supplementing the Law on Free Legal Assistance entered into force on 15 July 2011, except for certain provisions which will enter into force on 1 January 2013. As regards statistics from 1 January 2011 to p1. A total of 5541 applications for free legal aid were received throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia that year. 4634 requests were accepted, 492, 464 were rejected, the procedure was suspended in 215 cases, and the other requests were in the approval procedure. Compared to the same period last year, the number of applications submitted increased by 13.4% and the number of applications accepted increased by 13.7%. In order to gain better insight into the exercise of the right to free legal aid, the report provided data for each individual State Administration Office for the past year. In view of the statistics conducted by the Ministry of Justice, it is concluded that aid was more frequently granted for the use of free legal aid during the observed period last year, the right to secondary legal aid for 3735 of the 4636 approved applications, or 80.56 cases compared to primary legal aid granted in 245 cases, i.e. 5.28 cases and legal advice in 660 cases, i.e. 14,23%. We seek to increase the number of primary legal assistance provided because we want to help citizens in advance, so not when the proceedings are already under way to ensure that citizens' rights are realised as soon as possible and that the system of unnecessary disputes is resolved. In relation to the total legal aid granted to users, legal assistance in the form of court representation in 3394 cases and 90.87%, respectively, and in 340 cases or 8.13% for the assembly of court submissions. The primary legal aid, which was more frequently approved for the assembly of submissions before public-legal authorities, was granted in 24 cases, i.e. 9.8%, and only 0.02% in the proceedings of peaceful settlement of the dispute before the court. In 2011, legal aid was mostly granted in family-law procedures. Such procedures were 2494 or 53.81%. The following by frequency are executive procedures that were 552 and 11.91% in the past year, respectively. In third place are procedures related to property property, house or apartment. Legal aid was granted to victims of domestic violence in 5.42%, in working-law procedures in 3.72%, in pension insurance-related administrative procedures in 2.74% and in social care procedures in 1.54%. Legal assistance for victims of crime was granted in 16 cases and 0.49%, respectively, and in procedures for determining the right to health insurance in 0.49%, etc. I don't want to pick that up now. During the observed period, the most users of free legal aid were Croatian citizens, of which 4,552, foreigners exercised the right to free legal aid, and most often citizens of the Republic of BiH 38, Serbian citizens of 7, by two citizens of Afghanistan, the Czech Republic, Macedonia, etc. It is evident that in 2011, legal aid was provided in 83.4 cases by lawyers, and associations in a significantly smaller percentage, as a percentage of 16.7%, provided free legal assistance. The funds paid from the state budget for this purpose totalled a million and 601 thousand 906,42 kuna over the last year. Since the application of the Law on Free Legal Assistance, data have contributed to the development of the system in such a way that the number of applications submitted and approved applications for the use of legal aid has increased. In particular, the increase is visible in the approval and use of secondary legal aid and in the use of legal advice as a form that facilitates user analysis of the existing legal problem and provides information on how best they can protect their rights or enforce certain obligations. During the three-year implementation of the Law on Free Legal Assistance, problems have been identified, e.g. insufficient information or parallel systems or uneven practice of offices or courts. These problems in the improvement of the system should soon be removed and, consequently, the role of the Ministry of Justice is irrefutable here as the central holder of the system, but the need for further active inclusion of other system holders in the process of further empowerment and modernisation in line with the requirements of the development of society and the protection of fundamental human rights as a whole. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19582	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, a respected representative, Vesna Fabiančić-Krisjanic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19583	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister. As we heard from the deputy in front of us is the Report on the exercise of the right to legal protection and spending of funds in 2011. The adoption of the Law on Free Legal Assistance in June 2008 for the first time in the Republic of Croatia created a legislative framework for the creation of a complete system of legal assistance in civil and administrative matters. This created a legislative framework after 11 years of full age, i.e. after the Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms Convention in the Republic of Croatia was in force in 1997. A fair trial begins with a guarantee that an individual has the right to access a court that allows all forms of judicial protection. Professional legal assistance is needed to ensure that an individual enjoys access to a court in particular when it comes to persons who do not have sufficient financial means to provide professional assistance. The law on free legal aid has started to apply since February 2009 and has suffered extensive novels 2011. The SDP Club will support this report from which progress is made in relation to the previous period, but also the fact that for a full-fledged assessment of the system as well as the determination of whether it has met the purpose needs to be met for a longer period of time. It is a time within which the practice of all system participants will be harmonised, and the general public will gain a more complete picture of the system itself and the opportunities it provides to users. The main objective of setting up and, of course, the development of the system should be to bring the system closer to the most needed citizens for whom the system itself is created. Of course, the new law itself was on the trail of improving the system to facilitate the right of access to courts and public-law bodies to Croatian citizens and foreigners, taking into account their material position so that they could not exercise their rights without jeopardising their abstention or abstention of members of their households. It is extremely important that we analyse and assess the system of exercise of the right to legal assistance year after year. In this respect, it is also important that sublegal regulations are, above all, a tariff regulation to determine the value of the compensation for the provision of primary and secondary legal assistance and a Regulation on the criteria for the evaluation of projects of authorised associations for the provision of primary legal assistance to legal clinics and on the manner of reporting on the implementation of projects each year are also subject to an analysis. The first application of these sublegislative acts showed the need to revise the value of points for certain legal actions. In particular, the regulation shall, in a certain way, evaluate and calculate the value of the compensation for the provision and receipt of secondary legal assistance provided by lawyers when provided on the basis of the instructions issued by the competent office of the State Administration in the counties. According to the first regulation of 2009, the point had a value of 2 kuna, and for 2011 the value of the point was increased to 5 kuna. I believe that this increase has also affected the increased participation in the provision of legal assistance provided by lawyers. In 2011, legal aid in 83.4% of cases provided lawyers unlike in 2010 when it was in 65.2% of cases. When we look at the counties only in Istria, Primorje-goranska and Virovitica-podravska, there was a reduction in participation in the provision of legal assistance by lawyers. In the Istrian County, legal aid provided by lawyers in 87.5% compared to 100% in 2010, in Primorje-goranska in 56.2% compared to 61% in 2010 and in Virovitica-podravska 92.4% compared in 2010 when in 96.2% of cases. There has been a significant increase in all other counties. The entire time of this system, therefore for 3 years, two legal clinics operate in the Republic of Croatia at the Faculty of Law of Zagreb and the Faculty of Law of Split, and it is evident that citizens did not recognise the full potential of clinics as the provider of primary legal aid, so it is certainly necessary to work to recognise their quality and expertise. That's what it takes because the benefit is multiple. On the one hand, citizens exercise their right to legal assistance, and on the other hand it enables students to gain the necessary experience through practical work and professional mentor supervision and to qualify for practical application of the right. The Regulation has only been amended as regards the value of the point, but not in the number of points for a particular legal action as well as in the number of legal actions for a particular type of dispute. The success in a particular dispute is partly determined by a well-placed lawsuit and complexity of a type of dispute. By means of a regulation of an action in all branches of civil dispute in which the right to legal aid can be exercised, they have the same number of points. I believe that the lawsuit in disputes over real rights and working relationships is still more complex than the assembly of a marriage suit and I do not believe that land-book procedures do not fall under more complex procedures. I am also not sure that the legal advice and composition of the suit should be equally valued. In any case, the implementation of the system should be monitored and analysed each year in a way that brings it closer to those who need it most and for whom the system itself is created. When we look at the financial side of the budgets of individual administration offices in 2011 for this purpose, they were in the same form as in 2010. In the budgets, free aid in 210 years was planned with an amount of 6.8 million kuna, and government redistributions were greatly reduced to as much as a million and 700 thousand kuna. In 2011, 4 million kunas were planned for free legal aid and was again re-distributed to the same million and 700 thousand kunas. This is not very encouraging for the system of free legal aid, especially if we see the data from the report as to how paid for by the county, and how calculated it is as per page. 10 to 12 of the reports indicated, i.e. the level of discretion paid and accounted for. In any case, the system should continue to develop, create conditions that will allow equal rights in access to both courts and public-legal bodies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19584	Thank you, too. In the name of the HDZ club, a respected representative, Ana Lovrin, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19585	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister of Justice, colleagues and colleagues. So the HDZ club will support the report on the exercise of legal aid rights and the spending of funds. It is simply an indicator of what really happened and from which we will read whether or not the intention of passing laws and purpose is achieved. What I personally asked the promoter to do last year, the promoter of this report, and this year I repeat that I am asking that the report in which the charts are shown in color, not copying in the color of the material for the representatives, that it is then somehow graphically marked with cartoons or dots, and not by color, because the graphics are actually impossible to read from such prepared material. But lucky there's a description then, so it can be traced. So, as we have already heard here, the Law on Free Legal Assistance, which was adopted in 2008, established a complete system of free legal aid, which was until then fragmented by various laws of the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on Lawyership, the Law on Court Taxes, in part in the CAP, as it is still now. Then Croatia passed the law, was primarily governed by the provisions of the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the provisions of our Constitution on the right of everyone to a fair, impartial and within a reasonable period of time to be tried. It also took into account the European acquis, best practice and recommendations of the Council of Europe's documents at the time. This law was drafted extensively on the basis of the Constitutional Court Decision in July 2011. Those novels, I'd say mostly solved certain inaccuracies. The concept remains, namely, that free legal aid is limited to certain procedures and has a certain asset censorship, but always retains the exceptions to the established, established restrictions. Therefore, it retains the exception that if the specific living conditions are such and the costs of the procedure would threaten the maintenance of either the applicant or his family so that it can go beyond that. And the law retains the exception that despite all these, so restrictions unless the applicant fulfils the conditions that the court can always, for the reasons of justice, also relieve fees, or decide otherwise. So we see from this report that it is continuing, increasing the number and applications submitted and approved, which means that this law fulfils its purpose. We also see one difference between the funds paid in 2011 that amounted to around 309,000 kunas and the reserves, i.e. some over 3 million kunas and 600 thousand kunas. That is, of course, the reason is that, in the case of secondary legal aid provided by lawyers, legal aid is paid after the end of the procedure. Its value is therefore determined but is subsequently paid and must be recorded as an obligation. The 2011 draft law also detailed the way in which the amount paid in the event of success in the dispute was recovered, since there were both misunderstandings and different approaches to this. We therefore expect in the 2012 report and data on the return of these funds. So how successful there was in the conduct of disputes, and that will ultimately be an indication of how successful this legal aid was. What we also see from this report is that citizens generally address almost 90% of cases of secondary legal aid, so representation before the court and generally address lawyers. In fact, citizens still have greater confidence in the fact that professional assistance in the dispute will provide them with a better lawyer and also in giving them legal advice. Therefore, even in that part of the primary legal aid, when associations and legal clinics could do so, they still more address lawyers for this legal aid. I would say that perhaps today, in part of his report’s report on discrimination on the basis of the property mostly in that part, the Ombudsman has been limited to the fact that this discrimination is particularly visible in the part of the provision of legal aid. I'd say those grades are too strict. He referred to the 2010 report and said here's a sentence. The lack of functioning of the system is explained by the fact that, under the Law on Free Legal Assistance, more than 20 registered organisations providing primary assistance are paid a total of 10000 kunas within the system. That doesn't show, I wouldn't agree with it showing no functioning. So, as we know when the Law on Free Legal Assistance was passed, there were a lot of conversations with associations. The associations were very committed to getting a chance. Under this law they have received, but also the state is responsible and must manage control of the spending of funds. And therefore, we also see in this report that, for example, according to a public call issued for legal assistance by the primary legal assistance associations, I think 13 reported projects are registered in the Ministry of Justice, although 31 associations are registered. And during 2011. We see three other associations registered to provide legal assistance. But only 13 projects have been reported. The same is true in 2010 and 2011 associations shall be paid in advance according to reported projects. However, what associations cannot justify, which does not show that they have actually provided legal assistance, of course, must be returned. We have also seen in the 2010 Report that certain associations have not provided any legal assistance once, and we have also not been in any report, in any of the past, or in this report actually informed about whether these funds that the ministry has given, whether they have also been paid, or returned to the state budget and which their fate was ultimately. The report also shows the review of the applications submitted, the number of approved, paid applications, the number of paid or accounted funds by the Offices of State Administration, the county and the city of Zagreb. These figures point to different numbers per county. What would be interesting is that the ministry may somehow investigate and what are the reasons, whether in general in a particular county there are fewer disputed situations, whether there is a less need to protect citizens' rights, whether in these counties there is better or worse information about the right to free legal assistance, and I think that is precisely the reason for such a difference. And whether or not they are richer or poorer citizens in the area, they do not meet the conditions for legal aid. The same day is also given a review by county about whether legal aid was provided through lawyers or associations, so we see that in 7 counties in 100% of the cases was requested by a lawyer, and in over half of the counties in over 90% of the cases was sought by a lawyer. This information does not correspond and this is interesting with the number of registered associations to provide legal assistance to individual counties. So it's interesting that the Primorje-Gorski County, which has only one registered association, actually bounces off, just what's visiblely bounced from others, and there's a feeling that I'm providing legal assistance requested by associations about 40 percent. So, despite the fact that certain funds are available from this Report, we see that registered associations with projects do not report, that it is mostly project-based, on average, paid to the association about 11,000 kuna, which is actually a minimum amount but can no longer be paid because it is not covered by the proposed project anymore. Here's what shows that it's good that this law was passed. It is also good that certain controls have been established. In fact, the responsible state must control the spending of public budget money. And when we look at the reports of some associations a few years ago, where hundreds of thousands of kunas were justified by providing legal aid. When a concrete report was requested, it was no longer there. Finally, reading the activities of the Ministry of Justice, we can see that workshops and round tables are being held for judges, advisers and lawyers, as well as education for civil servants working in the county, in the Offices of State Administrations by county centres. But given the remaining untapped resources available, given the relatively small number of requests for certain counties, it seems to me that although these workshops for judges and lawyers are good for equating the practice and equal application of the law throughout Croatia, it seems to me that attention should be paid first of all, to ensure that citizens are better informed about having the right to free legal assistance. And given the simplified procedure with the 2011 novel, I expect, in fact, a report on the right to implement such a new law in the 2012 report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19586	Thank you. That's how we exhausted the list of people that were registered by the clubs. We don't have a registered representative for individual debates. The applicant's representative does not consider it necessary to take the final word, so I conclude the debate. We'll vote on this report tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19587	Report on the exercise of the right to legal aid and the spending of funds in 2011. The debate on the report is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: - A report on the exercise of the right to legal aid and on the spending of funds in 2011. I'd like to make a statement as to who the proposed conclusion is. Who's against it? Who's restrained? The result? I find that the conclusion has been accepted by most votes, 111 in favour, 1 against and 12 abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19588	We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. This is - Report by the Commission on the conflict of interest for 2011 The Commission submitted a report on the basis of Article 30. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? He doesn't want to. I'm opening a debate. In the name of the HDZ Club, respected representative Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19589	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Committee. Well, I'm sorry you didn't present this report at the beginning, but we should probably say that the Commission is gone, that the Commission is not present at the moment. So, practically since 22 December 2011, when the Croatian Parliament was established, when the term of office of six MPs who were in the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest ceased, and the commission was actually left with a mole or without a quorum. So there are five members left. That is why this Report before us can actually talk about the work of the Commission in full terms until March 2011, when it entered into force of the Prevention Act, the new Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, which then and in the transitional provisions, said that the existing Commission would work under the provisions of the new law, except that it would not work on the applications that were received after the entry into force of the new law and that it would not, according to these reports, or on the reports submitted on the property that it would not verify and operate under this law. Therefore, the Commission, which was still in full composition until December 22, 2011 actually did what the new law had imposed on it, and in fact, as far as the decisions on conflict of interest were concerned, it carried out those applications that came to the Commission by March 2011. So, from this report, we see that the Commission has properly done what it could have done after the entry into force of the new law. So, it made some forms, it produced, it obtained a statement of law allowing the Commissioner to access the data on all accounts in domestic and foreign banking and other financial institutions and did it further by doing the tasks he had given them in the task he had given them in the task of a revised action plan with the Anti-Corruption Strategy, so that we are not doing it all over again because in the Report it writes it. What we read from the enquiries presented here, for example, we read that again and under the new law, the article that determines the circle of officials is not quite well-supplyed, so he would suffer the changes again. Let's say we have a request from the president and the members of the FINA Administration who received the answer that they are not officials within the meaning of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest which would exactly read the law that way. However, regardless of the intensities of the legislation which made exceptions, so he told all state officials appointed by the Government, it seems to me that such a stipulation, appointed by the Government of benefactors of responsibilities and a very broad circle from the Director and Deputy Agency for Property Management, Director and Assistant Director of the Croatian Pension Insurance Office to the Deputy Secretary of the Croatian Assembly. But here's when we read, let's say, the president and the members of the FINA Administration are not officials because it's an organization called sui generis and should be at risk of conflict of interest. We should definitely meet in this law. Here we also read from the decisions taken by the Commission on conflict of interest and certain penalties for individual officials, that it is very good that a new law has been passed that has applied sanctions. Because we see that some of the frequent violations of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest did not have any consequences that were expected in any political field. I don't think it's good and I think it's in every European Commission report, and in this last time, it's not good that Croatia passed the Law on preventing conflicts of interest as one of the criteria in the negotiation process. One of the conditions for closing negotiations last year, and in fact, that law remained a dead letter on paper and that the situation regarding the prevention of conflicts of interest is worse today than it was a year or two ago. 'Cause it's just since March and I'm surprised it's nothing to worry about. So, in the past term, this Croatian Parliament has twice tried to choose a commission. It failed because of the strict way of choosing, so whoever in the secret vote requires the overhalf majority failed. But if it didn't work out, then someone had to wonder why it wasn't or whether it was time and place to maybe in some way ease it if we couldn't get a half majority but to choose a commission. So, either by public vote in some other way or by who gets more votes. It is not good and I do not know how we can appear in front of Europe with reports, the European Commission, but not only because of them, but also because of us, it is not good for citizens and no one to have a chance since March 2011 there is now the end of October 2012 there are no bodies that worry about preventing conflicts of interest. And I'm asking the government and the Parliament, the parliamentary majority, to do something about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19590	Thank you. We don't have any more club reports. We're moving on to an individual debate. A respected representative, Ruza Tomasic, has applied. She's gone. He's losing his right to debate on this agenda point. A respected representative, Josip Kregar, has also applied, but since he is not there, we can only conclude that he is also losing his right to debate on this agenda point. In conclusion, Mr. Mate Kacan President of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19591	Here's Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. As a teacher on the discussion of the esteemed Mrs. Lovrin, it is true that the commission is now acting in the brittle composition. It is also true that since March this commission was passed when this Law that is currently in force actually has a reduction of powers. I can only say that I hope that the new Commission will be elected soon and that it will be able to act in full power. I agree it's not good that it's not selected. You know there were two choices. Now there's a third in progress, and I hope he's successful. But the choice of the commission really isn't in this commission's power. We can't influence that. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19592	I thank the Honorable President of the Committee of Mother Kacan. The replica was answered by the esteemed Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19593	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Kachan, you reminded me. I don't know if it'll be a successful choice of this new commission. In fact, because it seemed to me it might not be too hard to say that all of this looked like a farce when the candidates were being examined. So, on the one hand, a large number of candidates who obviously did not read the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest and reported to that place. But on the other hand, it seems to me to me that the chairman of the Committee of our Parliament, who I'm not sure is the same, has read the law and some members of the committee who have questioned people there that they will and will verify whether they will enter with their feet, what they will do when they have to and enter with their feet. The poor people were scared, so they said I wouldn't exactly, so that, the only one who must have read that law, I read the law from beginning to end, and I didn't see anywhere that I was going to walk into someone's apartment. So that's the problem, and the question was asked by the president of the Assembly Committee, who I claim did not read the law or read it on purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19594	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this report tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19595	Report by the Commission on the conflict of interest for 2011. The debate on the report is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: - The Commission's report on the conflict of interest 2011 is accepted. Please raise your hand and let us know who's in. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? The result? I find that the conclusion has not been accepted and most of the votes, 89 against, 25 for and 10 abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19596	We move to the next item of the agenda, which is - Annual report on the work of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency for 2011 Croatia is the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency based on Article 13. Law on electronic communications. You received the material by mail. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure. You received the report at the session. Would the applicant like to give an additional explanation? Council President Miljenko Krvisek says he doesn't think that's necessary. Does the Government's representative want to further explain his opinion? We don't even have him. The committee reporter take the floor? No, I don't. Then we open the debate. On behalf of the SDP club, the respected representative Damir Rimac will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19597	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected to the reporter of the report. So in my debate on the report I will speak affirmatively but also critically with an emphasis on the postal services market above all. With the emphasis that the SDP Representatives' Club will support this report. In fact, HACOM has worked to achieve regulatory objectives and principles in the markets of electronic communications and postal services, which include promoting the competition of the interest of users of services. HAKOM met the objectives set in relation to the secure stability of the electronic communications and postal services market in the year in which most operators faced a fall in revenue due to the impact primarily on the global crisis. HACOM's focus is to meet the strategy for developing broadband access to the Republic of Croatia, and a significant role is to implement the Internet development and broadband programmes in areas of special state concern such as mountainous and island areas. In 2011, the Croatian market for electronic communications services marked several very important elements, primarily the strong development of broadband services and interactive television, and then the growing demand for internet content and data services, as well as the continuing decline of revenues from telephone lines in the immovable and mobile network, in line with world trends. Compared to 2010, the market for electronic communications in 2011 generated a decline in revenue of almost 14%, i.e. 13.7%. In the period ahead, HAKOM must work intensively on the further development of the market and above all on market competencies, but what is particularly worrying is the fact that, according to available investment data in EU countries, the Republic of Croatia lags slightly more than 63 euros per capita, while compared to the EU average, it is almost 80 euros per capita. With some new EU members investing more than Croatia, such as Slovakia and Slovenia. In this part, it would be interesting to ask one question, namely today on the Committee on Media, Information and Information when we discussed the Council for Electronic Media, I asked the question of what the council has taken about preventing the interference of the signal by Italy towards Croatian viewers, i.e. users, and we have received the answer that it is in fact responsible for HACOM, so when you discuss that we are actually hearing the opinion as far as we have arrived and whether this problem will be resolved soon. With regard to the immovable network, I think it is necessary to stress that the number of phone service users in the Republic of Croatia is not increasing. Namely, there is also a slight decline to expect, but also to point out that the Croatian Telecom has retained its leading position in the section relating to the provision of telephone services in a fixed communications network. It is an interesting data for me, and I believe for other fellow MPs, that there is an increase in the dynamics of this part of the market compared to the increase in the number of numbers transferred in 2011 of almost 30% compared to 2010. And it is important to move users from one operator to another, which points to a greater choice and choice option for end-users, i.e. that some kind of market liberalisation has been established. Namely, when the report is reviewed and data related to the Internet are looked at as a result of the accelerated development and use of the already mentioned broadband Internet access services, it increasingly participates in the overall income and income from data transmission compared to 2010 increased by almost 8%, or income was more than 2 million kuna, while the number of users of the broadband internet increased by around 7%. The criticism that I have to give on this report, in part, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, refers primarily to the postal services market because in this part of the report, I cannot take the impression that there is only a form of a statistical report and that it is dry-cleaning the collected data. In fact, I expected the regulatory authority to explain in this report, or at least that its view of the postal services market and the changes made with a detailed description of the disturbances, with a clear detection of the cause, but that is not the case. The form is filled, the data is there, but what do we do next? Who should and should be responsible for any failures from the previous period in this text shall not be indicated and HACOM shall in fact be reduced to a basic observer only. The share of Croatian postal services in postal services in 2011 was almost 72% while others were somewhere in 28. This data has been combined with a total decline in postal services compared to 2010 of 2% says that HP relations and others in the number of services achieved compared to the previous 2011 have been absolutely disrupted. In fact, the question is how Croatian mails have a 8% drop in traffic while other users are growing by 16% almost 100% more. In my opinion, the answer would lie in a different division of postal services defined by the Post Act of 2009 and 2011 and the non-comparability of data from previous years to 2010 respectively. From this moment on, I'm getting some kind of mess in that traffic. Other providers provide universal service under the definition of other postal services. They are somewhat cheaper, more competitive than they are in 2011 which causes a sudden decline in the universal services of the Croatian Post Offices, which I suppose won't stop until mid-2012. What is important to stress is that no one but counterpart Rilje discussed it and did not emphasise it, he announced that Croatian mail is in an unequal position, i.e. universal services are being translated into other postal services. Universal services drop by 9%. In total postal traffic, those in 2011 took part with almost 60%, again falling by 5%. Contrary to this, other postal services are growing, and that is the case with all donors while they fall slightly with the Croatian Post office again. The growth of these services among other providers is 16% which can be re-corresponded to a 5% decline in universal service. All this is happening in internal traffic and can be said freely in the reserved part of the shipment to so-called. 50 grams. The report on the work of Croatian Post Offices has written what HACOM should do, but the real question is whether it is the same or not. Regulatory accounting in the report says that by the half of 2012 Croatian mail will do the work on accounting separation, but I sincerely fear that this job will not be done until half of 2013. The quality of the provision of universal postal services stands, according to the check I checked are further accurate and very accurate. Croatian mail in 2011 did not reach an 85% handover rate for the D+1 deadline, which means the date received, delivered tomorrow and the problem was unfortunately transferred in 2012. At the end of this presentation a few words only about the protection of users and complaints by species. The analysis of the complaint referred to in the Report found that the basic type of complaint to the account and the quality of the services and the injury to the complaint is necessary in that part and in this context also to monitor business objections or to the behaviour of the operator when providing services as well as complaints relating to the transmission of the number and pre-selection of the operator. So, if you compare 2008 to 2011 then the object to the quality of the service practically does not have any major shifts, the objections are almost identical. The opposition to business in the same period from four to five years also has no significant change. Neither does the objection to the selection of operators nor the objection to the transfer of numbers while the complaint to the account has been increased almost in applications by 100%. So in 2008, we had 654, and in 2011, we had 1129 which I believe is worrying and should actually see the modality of how to put an end to it because a large number of users mostly have complaints about those accounts, those invoices that come to their home addresses. Here, for this part, thank you so much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19598	Thank you very much. In the name of the HDZ Club, a respected representative of Bozidar Kalmeta will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19599	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the agency, colleagues and colleagues. Let me also take a few sentences on this report that we discussed on the board and, as I understand it, all clubs support this report. I would not want to repeat myself after a colleague who spoke before me to say that the Croatian Democratic Community club also supports this report and will vote for this report that will be tomorrow, so the vote will be guessed tomorrow as we received the information at 10 o'clock. So this report has indeed been made I would say very professionally, which shows that the Agency is therefore working in accordance with its legal powers in achieving regulatory objectives on the electronic communications and postal services market. The report is really very transparent. It covers everything in the Agency's job description and perhaps even no more questions practically to which it is not even answered here. So I don't mean to convince you what's in this report right now, but here's maybe just a few points. First, a colleague told me before me that the overall Croatian electronic communications market achieved a decline in revenue of 13.7% in 2012 compared to 2010 with a constant reduction in service prices in this time of the economy as we are. When it comes to investment we also have one piece of information here that in 2011, and I'm going to say about this later on about the decline in income. As for the 2011 investment, we have a decline in investment. What are the reasons for the decline in investment I would say that the first reasons for a general economic crisis and a lack of otherwise investment are the first reasons. Because what operators wanted in terms of even certain regulations that the government had made to help build their pillars that would install their instruments to cover certain areas. So the government did it at their request but it did not result in increased investment either. Secondly, small operators do not have the power to invest clearly because they are fighting for a naked life, and the big operator is not investing because he says he has a price deal problem, or one word that I say is not regulated. But I think the main reasons are because otherwise the lack I said investment, so it's reflected in this brand that's otherwise highly profitable. We still have the fact that the mobile services in the mobile network are going down. It's the same I would say trend everywhere in the world. This is happening everywhere in the world, so it happens to us because one trend of changing in fact immovable public communications networks mobile but the replacement should certainly be sought in a broadly explained Internet access. When it comes to mobile telephony, then we see that income is also lower, but the reason is that the average cost per user is lower. So people in this situation are also spending less, watching how much money they spend on their cell phones, no matter what costs us on 100 residents of 120 cell phones. But I think that's why the average cost per user is lower. And then what's already said the Internet is constantly growing which is good and what's to say hello. This should continue to work particularly on those areas of what the Agency is doing and these are Brdsko-Moline, etc. These areas where we have a slightly harder situation when it comes to it. What I want to mention but I will not open the question, it is a question of a digital signal that Italian neighbours abuse, deafen to calls and European institutions about it. They just act like there's no law for them. The agency did what it could and I don't think the Agency can do more than that. That question can be solved by some other way, probably diplomatically. So there's nothing too much about that, either. What I would like to say is commend the agency, which is access to the services of people with disabilities. The Agency has indeed started working through advisory mechanisms brought together by a representative of persons with disabilities, operators and HACOM, and the aim is here, as the advisory mechanism writes here, and to determine to what extent persons with disabilities the equal availability of services, the identification of the necessary improvements and the supervision of the implementation of agreed measures to improve the equal availability of them. And one more thing I want to say, which is to settle disputes between users and operators. It is indeed one job to greet and welcome users, because we see from this table that this number of complainers is growing. It grows because people didn't know at first. Now they know they have someone to talk to and they'll be at your service. As far as mail is concerned, there's only one sentence on the mail report. There's a situation at eleven, just like it was practically in the tenth, and I wouldn't be spreading the story any further. It's all in the report. I think the Agency did its job well. If you can do better, you can always say that. But as far as the Croatian Democratic Community is concerned, we will say I initially support this report. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19600	Thank you, too. We will also hear the position of the HNS club and respected representative Nada Turin Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19601	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the agency, here are just a few observations regarding the work of this agency. First and foremost, we would like to emphasise the importance of this agency, given that it controls one very important thing, and not to say a very large and interesting financial market where more than 14 billion kunas of transport are realised. This is not negligible and someone with a task such as this Agency has the task of ensuring conditions for the development and regulation of the market in the sector, in these sectors which control and regulate it is more than focused on those interested in the market to participate. So we can't fool ourselves, and I'm sorry that we're talking about this right now, because I'm thinking of talking about 14, 15 billion kunas and one agency that regulates and controls all this together at 9:00 a.m., I don't know how far this is gonna get all of what I'm gonna say and what my colleagues said before. Electronic communications are today the most pro-pulsory economic sector. So we should care about trying to secure a single environment and climate in that market through HACOM, which will encourage stronger investment in the sector. In fact, what I most fell into my eyes is a decline, meaning income in certain services, that is, in most services except in the field of broadband services. And certainly, only innovation, means the investment of infrastructure operators and new technologies in the sector will bring growth to that market in the future. The sector is also huge for another reason, namely in the mail and telecommunications sector, more than 10,000 people are working. So it's not harmless at all. I won't talk about the post office at all, but in our post office there are more than 8,000 people. The report says investments are expected, especially in this section concerning electronic communications, however, HACOM says and stresses in the report that it does not have investment plans but simultaneously appeals to investments. I think there's something you should do about it. We should for such an important sector, for that amount of money that revolves, we must in some way have the right information from those who use that space and which we allow to use that space to have some kind of plan of theirs about what and how much, what, where and how much they will invest. As far as the post office is concerned, I'd say that, namely, that's how it was on the board, we're kind of sentimental about our post office. From what we call the diliance we remember long ago to today's, or yesterday's postmen who come to our house and bring us mail. I think that we must not have any delusions of the only quality open market and competition can create a quality service and improve our mail, and our mail must finally start, Croatian mail must start to face it. This, of course, is not just up to you, or at all, depends on you, but Croatian mail must begin to face all the trends that are. It is likely that today or I do not know how many years it will happen that in that classical form of mail there may not be, but that this service will always exist in some form, for sure, that there will be and all other services that can be offered under that activity. Here's our message we'll support, of course, this report. We are also pleased to be working on European projects, meaning that HACOM is also engaged. We're glad to have a lot of investment in personnel, I see there are significant resources for the education of human beings in HACOM. We will need everything in the future, but what is the basic task of the HNS is to work on the fact that potential investors but also today’s operators and today’s players on this market feel that they are in an stimulating environment and that HAKOM plays an extremely important role in this regard. We unfortunately must say, we unfortunately all board members and certainly some parliamentary representatives get complaints from both large and small. It's one of course war on the market. The kids think they're cut off, the big ones wouldn't want to lose their share of the cake, or their monopoly historical I'd say the monopoly they have, but HAKOM has an extremely important role and its transparency in work and expertise in work must be what to the level of perfectionism brought about in order to have as little a situation as possible in which anyone's doubted that it's really about the market where the huge money is spinning. Here, that's our message. We will support this, but we warn of an even higher degree of transparency and urgency because all these remarks come to us in this House, and you probably know what this is about. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19602	Thank you. Does the promoter want to add something in the end? I'd like the President of the Council of Mr. Miljenko Krvishik to come to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19603	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here was the question about the interference of Italian programs with our Croatian radio and television programmes, by switching to digital broadcasts of television in 2010 we were convinced that actually those interferences that Italian cells in analogue broadcasting would create for Croatian cells would disappear because digitisation needed a number of frequencies for the same number of content programs that are being broadcast significantly smaller and up to 10 times smaller. However, the Italian administration, instead of assigning the same number of publishers, means less frequencies and introducing order, they have increased the number of publishers, left the same number of frequencies, the number of frequencies that were allocated to Italy by international agreement in 2006 and was not enough and they simply have to use other people's frequencies. They use all frequencies assigned to the Republic of Slovenia, all frequencies allocated to Slovenia. At the same time as measuring the busyness of this frequency spectrum, it can be observed that some of their frequencies are completely clean, they do not emit anything on them. These are frequencies stored for RAI content or the contents of Berlusconi television cannot be remembered at this time by the name. So, our frequencies are being used, and they're saving theirs for a better thing. What we could have done, we did everything. Our mission is to measure the purity of spectrum, to object if we find that spectrum is disrupted. Lastly, i.e. that in 2011, about 500 and some complaints we submitted to the Italian administration. A total of 1500 objections over the past three years. As a result, the Italian administration's answers are thanks for the warning, so let's see what can be done. In the International Telecommunications Union, we have spoken at all levels, to the highest level, to the Secretary-General of the Union. This year, at the World Radio Communication Conference, our colleagues were able to impose this topic on the plenary session even though this was not foreseen in the agenda. We have received support from countries of practical all the countries that Italy has for its neighbours who have supported us because they have the same problem. It is impossible to view their domestic programs in Malta as distracted by Italian content. At the end of all that, there was no result. If you remember Mr. Stazic and last year on the Assembly Committee on Information and Media, that topic was concluded then. The days of certain tasks were both for HACOM and for the Ministry of our home but also for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and finally we stayed on that it was actually something that could not be solved at this technical level, there are no sanctions that would force Italy to respect the allocation contract signed in 2006 in Geneva but rather that it was directed towards the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for more than a year trying to achieve something with the Italian side. Last week we had a meeting right at the Foreign Ministry on the subject, we co-operate constantly, we provide the help we can insinuate that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will succeed in that regard. If you'll excuse me, I'd like to say one more word about what was said here. The drop in income is visible, however, we also have an increase in minutes of talks. That means we're talking more about less money, and that's the success of HACOM because we've achieved less prices in the market, we've achieved that people are talking more, and the accounts are smaller. And yet, as far as the user's objection is concerned, the fact is that they've grown dramatically, the number of objections. The reasons for this are seen in user education, this is our task constantly, but also in the increasingly aggressive behaviour of the operator, but also in a better defined legal framework where users know who they can complain about and who they can get help from. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19604	I thank the President of the Council. Do we have a replica? No, we don't have a replica. The replica? Damir Rimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19605	Well, it's not really a replica, it's more of a commentary. In fact, what you said about HACOM taking all the measures and actions in order to amortise this negative influence of Italian frequencies towards the users of our TV station, I would like to point out again this time that in certain parts of the Republic of Croatia, our citizens are still denied the elemental right to access information because the only possible way for them to watch our TV channels, or our TV station, is to pay additional payments to cable operators, or television. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19606	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on this report tomorrow. I thank the President of the Council, Miljenko Krvisik, with his associates.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19607	Annual report on the work of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency for 2011. The debate on the report is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, I am voting on the following conclusion: - The Annual report on the work of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency for 2011. Please raise your hand to plead who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the conclusion was accepted by most votes, 111 in, 5 against, and 8 abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19608	We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. This is - The report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media and the Agency for Electronic Media for 2011 is the applicant of the report, based on Article 66. The law on electronic media. You received the material by mail. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You received the report at the session. Would the applicant like to give an additional explanation? The head of the agency and the president of the council, respected Zdenko Leviak, believes there is no need for this. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, I invite the esteemed Mr. Damir Rimec to speak to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19609	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable President of the Council here after 7 hours we meet again, I will try to be brief. By reading this report, I am pleasantly surprised that it is also very comprehensively and professionally written, i.e. transparently and comprehensively, which perhaps in such or similar reports and is not often the case, but in any case I can, on my own behalf and on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, say that we will unanimously support such a report. As always, when I prepare for this type of debate, I try to get feedback feedback information from the field, and I have contacted several local news agencies, i.e. houses in the area of Vukovar-Srijem County where I come from and I actually get one from them I dare say a very positive reaction to the work of the council itself, i.e. compliments in which you have collaborated with them in your work so far. In any event, these representatives of local media highlight the expertise in the work of individual members of the Electronic Media Council, addressing all issues related to the work of the electronic media as regards the acquisition of concessions, competitions for the Funds for pluralism, the promotion of pluralism and other businesses related to the development of the media itself and the Electronic Media Agency. I quote in each segment and cooperation the members of the Council have been meeting and have always timely advised individual media how in the best, legal way to exercise some right or to do or to do some work. In the case of observed irregularities in the work, the Council has, in many cases, come to an understanding. It also helped to highlight what was very important and I think that all the Croatian public noticed. You did not immediately approach those rigorous sanctions or measures. I repeat it and stress the independent and independent regulatory body in the field of electronic media, which began its work further in 2004 and was based on the principles and experiences of European regulatory practice. During the day, we also discussed the report by the HACOM agency, but also on the Media Committee where I initiated a debate concerning the interference of ours, i.e. when establishing digital signals that we have problems with this by Italy. I reiterate and use this position and point out in front of the SDP Representatives Club the problem of actually having a elemental right to access information especially in these parts of the Republic of Croatia where this signal is being disrupted because there is simply no possibility of watching domestic TV programs, except through additional payment to concessionaries or service providers via cable television. On the other hand, TV publishers, regardless of formally covering more than 70% of the concession area with financial areas, are also faced with the problem of coverage, i.e. the problem of interference that was not known at the time of the conclusion of the concession contract. The focus is on the Fund to promote pluralism and diversity of media, radio and TV programmes and certain modes have been found to improve this support institute for the production of audio and audio visual signal. The disbursement of the Fund in 2011 was based on 29 cca 29 million kuna, so somewhere around 4 million euros if we talk so harshly. Of which, somewhere around 12 and a half or more or 12.6 million kunas were allocated to 21 publishers, TV publishers, and this is the same as in 2010 while radio publishers dropped 139 funds from the Fund and it is in some absolute amount of 8 less than in 2010. The emphasis should be placed on continuing to pay particular attention to the offered software content, above all, which in fact encourages media pluralism itself. What I have fallen for, and I trust all the representatives who have carefully analyzed this report, it is a matter of Council and Agency monitoring activities in 2011. In fact, the Agency has processed almost 2200 items, which is an absolute, relative amount compared to 2010 increase by 16%. A special detail that is a little bit and amazing, but if it is in the report, it is probably true, which is that the Council held 88 sessions in 2011. So if we play statisticalally, it's 7 and a half sessions a month, which means you've had almost 2 sessions a week. A total of nearly 158,000 hours of radio and TV programs were recorded, and 17 TV stations and 12 radio channels were occasionally recorded at different levels from state, regional to local, and programme orientations primarily thinking about general and specialized programme orientation. Following the monitoring carried out, the Council brought in a total of 30 warnings and one indictment proposal, one infringement order and 4 warnings, and 11 times during 2011, respectively, launched a public tender to carry out a concession to carry out the activities of providing media services to television and radio. A total of 39 concessions and 10 concessions for the performance of TV activities and 29 concessions for the performance of radio activity. Two concessions were suspended permanently, two concessions were suspended temporarily. And what is important and commendable is that the Council has awarded concessions for five new specialized national TV programmes and one regional. Since international activity, the Council and the Agency have actively cooperated primarily with national regulators and public and state bodies such as the European Association of National Regulators since 2005. The Committee on Information and Media of the Council of the European Union, the European Audio-visual Observatory and the General Administration of the European Commission responsible for audio-visual and media policy. We had a discussion on the board, and I have to say now that I wasn't satisfied with the answer that I got on the question. In fact, according to Article 33 of the Treaty on the Functioning The law on electronic media of the state administration body as well as the legal persons of the bulky ownership of the Republic of Croatia are obliged to advertise or to make promotional messages up to 15% of the annual budget. In 2011, the total revenue on the revenue side of the budget was around 4 million, 4.6 million kuna, while in 2010, it was almost 9 million kuna, representing a 51% reduction. The question I asked was whether a financial simulation was made that all state institutions were, and the report says that only 40% of state institutions were advertised in the media. So 60% isn't. Whether there was a financial simulation of what the revenue side of the budget would be. The answer I got was that you as the Agency made one request and then 2 rushes because you don't really know what the budgets of these state institutions are. Namely, the Budget of the Republic of Croatia is a transparent document and it is also published on the website of the Ministry of Finance, but also in the National Journal of the Republic of Croatia and there it is evident how many state institutions have budgets. So the question was focused in this direction, but certainly we need to discuss it, that this is where the discussion should be conducted. Because it's not good that only 40% of the government's body and legal persons are mostly owned by the state to advertise in the media. Here's on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club in this debate so much, and if there's anything else that needs to be replicated, I'll get back to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19610	I now call upon the esteemed representative, Sunny Glavak, to state the positions of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19611	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Lefty, colleagues and colleagues. If we were in the process, we'd get a reward and a good price if we were advertised. The Croatian Democratic Community Club considered the proposed report. We consider it detailed enough especially if we talk about a period of... a day earlier, given that a colleague has broken this report, each other's page. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I won't do it again. I will only remind myself that in 2010, the Council awarded 39 concessions, 29 radios, 10 televisions, and I will commend transparency in the conduct of a public tender for giving concessions and the fact that publishers point out strictness in their assignment as well as I consider good because they finally understood that they had to comply with the law and that if they meet all the legal requirements and money above all from the Pluralism and diversity of the media. As far as ownership data and changes in ownership structure are concerned, they are obliged to do so by January 31st, we can say that even those initial problems so far up to this report are visible progress, or if you want to take seriously and implement and comply with the law because, according to the report, everyone has done so. However, given the ownership structure of some publishers, I'm talking about a local television station, Mr. Leviaq, so please, I think that's in your jurisdiction, too. It is unacceptable for one person who has a third publishing house in the past years to receive money from the Pluralism Encouragement Fund. She remained obliged by different criteria of money both to the state and employees so that she could still participate as a publisher by her name and by her last name. As for the violation of the Law on Electronic Media, we heard that. Warnings are given, 30 warnings. So, monitoring is being conducted. However, I am of the opinion that it should be strengthened especially when it comes to electronic publications. I think there's something more the Council will do about it. A little more than 28 million kuna is distributed from the Fund, a little more than 16 million for radio publishers and more than 12 million kunas for broadcasters. The application was somewhat less related to radio stations, or radio publishers. Television stayed on that number like it was a year ago. As for the funds from the fund, I'd just like to warn you of one more thing. In addition to everything you know and what is and in law I will not now apostrophe among other things, it is said that the Fund's resources will encourage the employment of highly educated staff, i.e. professionals in electronic media at local and regional level. I don't think there's much movement here. I don't think that's good, and some publishers don't have clearly defined software content intended for public information. I think they're still lost in that definition, which is what it is. Finally, I would just like to say that some, as a colleague mentioned, have failed to comply with Article 33 of the Law to answer the Council’s questions on reasons. They actually don't even owe it to the law it seems to me to do. But I'm just going to say, since these 15% were not respected that the local publishers were first and foremost cut off. Some say about 330,000 kuna or more. Here's someone calculated that number. In the expectation of new legislation, we warn that more attention should be paid to the content of concession agreements and their implementation of particularly commercial publishers and I warn of the obvious lack of communication between the Ministry of Culture as the competent authority and the Council for Electronic Media. I don't think that's good, that in order and if we're going to go in to change the law I call really for the cooperation of the Ministry of Culture or the Ministry of Culture, the HDZ Club will support the report. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Good night!
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19612	Thank you very much. Whether the Director of the Agency and the President of the Council, the Honorable Zdenko Ljevak, wants to conclude. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19613	Thank you very much. I would like to thank you for the assessment and evaluation of the reports of the Agency for Electronic Media, the Council for Electronic Media. Actually, I didn't, I don't have any specific questions. I'd just like to explain a few things. Last year, in the distribution of the Pluralism Fund, we didn't actually share funds for, which were legally defined and foreseen for television publishers simply because we didn't have such a program that we could support. But those remaining funds were added to the 2012 funds, so they're being shared this year. So this year, television will have more resources to distribute through its programme. So these aren't the funds that are missing. On the one hand, in the absence of a projection of a programme transferred for this year, we do so in agreement and we are obliged to inform about it to the Competition Agency because we actually get approval that we can finance, they are over our control of the distribution of funds. As far as electronic publications are concerned, we have had a feeling and we have a feeling because the law still does not allow it. We think we should help this new so-called. "Third Media", however, here's how much you know I think a proposal will come within a few days to amend the Law on Electronic Media, where then this law allows us to share the funds then and for that third category of media, and this will be done by the council, or by the agency with pleasure. And we have already prepared and trained for this kind of performance of our obligations. As regards communication with public authorities and state bodies and public companies regarding their obligation under the Law on Electronic Media, I must remind myself that it is not a problem which was presented in 2010 and 2011, it is present in the same way in 2010. I told us today on the council board the only thing left to do is make an emergency because we don't have any other option. And as for this part that's a vague question, I'm going to ask our service to actually address it in writing and to give an interpretation about it, and to find out where these differences are in the obligation of public government bodies. And I'll remind you, in fact, that of those who don't send the report and didn't send it from my home ministry, there are several ministries that are deafening about it. Now I'm asking what we as an agency can do to them. After the third intervention, we get actually a report from someone, so when we accept it, we simply record it. As for the work of councils and agencies through this new bill that we have received for the sake of clarity and we have given an indication to the ministry he will improve some things personally from this speaker I must say that the Law on Electronic Media has more shortcomings and it has matured in fact for a more thorough processing because the media, especially the electronic media, is changing from day to day. It's a living organism that runs, and then a legislator can't regulate it for a long time. Here, thank you for your support and for your confession.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19614	And I thank the Director of the Agency and the President of the Council to the esteemed Zdenko Leviaq and to conclude the debate on this report. We'll also vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19615	Report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media and the Agency for Electronic Media for 2011. The debate on the report is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Information, Information and Media, I am voting on the following conclusion: - A report on the work of the Council for Electronic Media and the Agency for Electronic Media for 2011. Please raise your hand and let us know who the proposed conclusion is. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes have accepted the proposed conclusion 110 for, 10 against and 4 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19616	We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. This is - Proposal for a Decision appointing the President and members of the Management Board of the Agency for Science and Higher Education The Proposer of the Decision is the Government of the Republic of Croatia in accordance with Article 8. The law on quality assurance in science and higher education. You received the proposal by mail. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Zeljko Jovanovic Minister of Science, Education and Sports. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19617	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, good evening, distinguished MPs and MPs. So very briefly, since the report from the Committee made an observation regarding the composition, since it was not represented evenly by all areas of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it remains with its proposal for a simple reason that this finding is not correct since all areas are represented in this proposal. It was specifically said that there was no one from the socio-humanist fields, but the proposed Mrs. Andreja Mesanovic, for example, comes from the Faculty of Philosophy. It's that she's a student, but it's a socio-humanist area. Therefore, please support this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19618	I thank the ministers. I'm opening a debate that no one has signed up for, so I'm closing the debate. We'll vote tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19619	Proposal for a Decision appointing the President and members of the Management Board of the Agency for Science and Higher Education. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a Decision appointing. Please raise your hand to plead who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most votes, 91 for, 2 against and 31 votes, have been abstentioned to a decision on the appointment of presidents and members of the Board of Directors of the Science and Higher Education Agency in the text as proposed by the Proposer. The Committee on Education, Science and Culture has proposed a conclusion that is not drawn up in accordance with the law, so we will not even vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19620	We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. This is - a proposal for a Decision appointing the president and members of the Committee of the State Award for Sports "Franjo Bučar" is proposed by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports in accordance with Article 80. Sports law. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs. You received the report at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Re-esteemed Zeljko Jovanovic, Minister of Science, Education and Sports.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19621	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here I am since I was here at this late hour to say this sentence. So please support this proposal. It is indeed the most important national award for sports achievements, Franjo Bučar. All proposed candidates are top sports employees and I think they deserve to vote all candidates who will be proposed for the Francis Bucar Sports Award. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19622	I thank the ministers. I'm opening a hearing that we haven't reported, so I'm closing the debate. And I would also like to inform you that we will vote on this tomorrow. Now we're gonna stop working on this session. We'll continue tomorrow by voting at 10.00 hours. Thank you all and good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-25-0.u19623	Proposal for a decision to appoint the president and members of the National Sports Award Committee, Franjo Bučar. The debate is closed. I am voting on a proposal for a decision to appoint. Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's in favour of the motion for a decision? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 90 for, 2 against and 32 abstentions, have been decided on the appointment of presidents and 8 members of the Committee of State Sports Award Franjo Bučar in the text as proposed by the applicant. Proposal for a decision to appoint the Director-General of Croatian Television. In accordance with Article 19. The Croatian Radio Television Act was submitted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You made the motion for a decision at the session. Does the representative of the Committee on Information, Information and Media want to take the floor? Yeah. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
