ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14174	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. At its 11th session held on 4 September this year, the mandate-immunity committee discussed the request of the State Attorney's Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime by the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia for the authorisation of the initiation of criminal proceedings against Peter Cobankovic, on grounds of reasonable suspicion that he committed a criminal offence against official duty, abuse of office and authority referred to in Article 337(1) and (4). Penalty law. Petar Čobanković is a representative of the 7th convocation of the Croatian Parliament and on the basis of Article 76. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 23 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall have the immunity until the term of office has been terminated and shall not be able to initiate or conduct criminal proceedings without a decision of the Croatian Parliament against the same. Article 76(5) The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and Article 27 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are prescribed that a decision on the application for authorisation for the initiation of a criminal procedure shall be taken by the Mandate-Immunity Commission by having the decision subsequently confirmed by the Croatian Parliament at the next session. Following the debate, the Mandate-Immunity Commission unanimously adopted the decision "Approving the initiation of criminal proceedings against MP Petar Cobankovic at the request of the State Attorney's Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime of 31 August this year due to a reasonable suspicion that he committed a criminal offence against official duty and abuse of office and authority". Namely, the Mandate-Immunity Commission decided to grant authorisation for the initiation of criminal proceedings against MPs in the Croatian Parliament of Peter Cobanković, at the request of the State Attorney's Office as an independent and independent judicial body authorised and obliged to act against the perpetrators of criminal offences and other criminal offences in order to be able to carry out its duties without delay, which is based on the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, in jurisdiction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14175	Thank you, too, for the Gordana Room. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I believe today soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14176	My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. Before we continue the debate on the point that preceded it we will put to the vote the decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Please confirm the quorum. We have a quorum. There are 91 MPs and a representative present. I will read the decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission confirming the decision. We will therefore vote in favour of a decision confirming the decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission of 4 September 2012 on the granting of authorisation for the initiation of a criminal proceedings against MP Petar Cobankovic, as requested by the State Attorney's Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, as of 31 August 2012, addressed to the State Attorney's Office in August 2012 on the grounds of reasonable suspicion that he committed a criminal offence against his official duty by abuse of office and authority as referred to in Articles 337(1) and 4. Penalty law. Who's to confirm the decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission? Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. I find that with 95 votes for and 1 against the decision taken by the Mandate-Immunity Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14177	We are now going to vote on the debated points. I call on the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, Mrs Gordan Sobol, to submit a report to the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the suspension of the term of office of representative Josip Fristic and to suspend the conduct of the deputy representative, Damir Bajs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14178	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity committee discussed at its 12th session held on 21 September a written statement by Representative Josip Fristic of 18 September 2012 informing the President of the Croatian Parliament on the start of the conduct of the parliamentary office in accordance with the provision of Article 14(3). Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. The commission found that the stay of the parliamentary mandate for Josip Fristic, elected from the HSS list in the 2nd election unit, began on 22 December 2011 and that the conduct of the deputy deputy representative's post began on 23 December 2011. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on the Elections of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament to suspend the term of office of MP Josip Fristic The Mandate-Immunity Commission unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament to decide on the suspension of the term of office of representative Josip Fristic on 26 September and to suspend the conduct of MP Damir Bajs on 26 September 2012.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14179	I thank the board president. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I am closing the debate and I am voting on the motion for this decision. Who's in? Okay. I find that the decision was reached unanimously with 129 votes. The honourable representative, Josip Fristic, is not in the hall to make an oath, and well, he will swear an oath when he arrives.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14180	We move to - Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the termination of the parliamentary term of office of Josip Frištić and the launch of the conduct of the parliamentary office of Deputy Representative Branko Hrg Please be sure that the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, Mrs Gordan Sobol, submits a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14181	Thank you, Mr. President. The mandate-immunity commission discussed a written statement at its 13th session on 10 October on the resignation of MP Josip Fristic. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has been prescribed to suspend the term of office before the time on which he was elected should he resign, while Articles 11 and 12. The law lays down that a representative whose term of office has ceased to be replaced by a deputy representative from the same party list from which the representative has been elected, which is determined by the political party that proposed the list. Mr. Josip Friščić was elected representative in VII. Meeting of the Croatian Assembly as a candidate on the list of HSS in II. Mr Branko Hrg was appointed deputy representative by a letter sent to the President of the Croatian Parliament. The mandate-immunity committee found that the conditions had been obtained and unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament to decide on the termination of the representative's term of office, Josip Fristic, and to start acting as deputy representative of Mr Branko Hrg, with the date of 12 June 2012.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14182	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the report. There's no need to argue. I'm closing the debate. By raising our hands, may we please state who's in favor of accepting the report? Thank you very much. Does anyone mind? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I find the decision has been reached unanimously with 116 votes in favour. - Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the start of the stay of MP Vojislav Stanimirovic's mandate and the start of the conduct of deputy deputy representative Dragan Montenegrin Please honor the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission to submit the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14184	The mandate-immunity committee discussed the written request of MP Vojislav Stanimirovic at its 13th session held on 10 October, which informed him that he was putting his representative mandate to rest on the 10th of June 2012 for personal reasons. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has ordered that MP Vojislav Stanimirovic be replaced by Dragan Montenegrin. The commission found that the conditions for the start of the stay of the parliamentary mandate of Vojislav Stanimirovic were met, as well as the conditions for the start of the conduct of his deputy, Dragan Crnogorec, and unanimously proposed to the Croatian Parliament for decision-making on 10 October 2012 the rest of MP Vojislav Stanimirovic's term of office began, in accordance with Article 9(2). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of 10 October are beginning to act as deputy representative Mr Dragan Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14185	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the report and the motion for a decision. Who's calling? No one. I'm closing the debate. I'm asking you to state who's in favour of the proposed decision by raising your hands. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find the decision has been reached unanimously with 117 votes in favour. We are going to the next Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the start of the stay of MP Jova Vukovic's term of office and the start of acting as deputy representative of Mile Horvat. I'd like the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission to introduce us to the report.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14187	At the 13th session, the mandate-immunity committee discussed the written request of representative Jova Vukovic of 21 September, who informed him that he was putting his parliamentary mandate to rest on 1 October 2012 for personal reasons. A stand-alone democratic Serb party in accordance with Article 12(1). The law on election of MPs in the Croatian Parliament has ordered that MP Jovo Vukovic be replaced by Mile Horvat. The mandate-immunity committee shall propose to the Croatian Parliament to decide on 1 October 2012 to open the term of office of representative Jova Vukovic, and the parliamentary duty in accordance with Article 9(2). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of 1 October 2012 begin to act as Deputy Representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14188	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate on the report and the motion for a decision. Is anyone picking up? No one. I'm closing the debate. I ask you to be clear by voting raise your hand who's in favour of the motion for a decision? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There isn't. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find the decision has been reached unanimously with 117 votes in favour. Thank you very much. I ask the new members of this House to swear an oath. The oath is given in a way that the president reads the text of the oath, and then the representative when he was called up and said "I swear." The text of the oath reads: "I swear by my honor that I will exercise consciously and responsibly in my work the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order and that I will stand up for all progress of the Republic of Croatia." Representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14189	I swear. . [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14190	Thank you. Representative Dragan Montenegrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14191	I swear. . [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14192	Thank you. And the representative of Mile Horvat.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14193	I swear. . [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14194	I congratulate you all on your parliamentary duty, your sworn oath. I wish you success with us and good cooperation. Thank you very much. We're going to work on the agenda. First - Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission A) Report of the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the termination of the pensions of the parliamentary mandate of Marija Lugarić and the termination of the conduct of the deputy deputy representative of Vesna Željnik. I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, respected by Gordan Sobol, to file a report.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14196	The mandate-immunity committee discussed at the 14th session held on 26th October the written request of the representative, Maria Lugaric, on the re-behaving of the parliamentary duty since 18th of 2012. Given that the government of the Republic of Croatia has relieved it of its duties as deputy minister of science, education and sports, which has ceased to be incompatible with the conduct of its parliamentary duties. The Commission found that the suspension of the parliamentary term of office of Marija Lugaric started on 1 January 2012 because of the incompatibility of the duties referred to in Article 6. The law on the system of state administration and Vesna Željnik began acting as deputy deputy deputy in the Croatian Parliament. How Marija Lugaric is in accordance with Article 13(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Law on Elections of Representatives submitted a written request to the President of the Croatian Parliament within the legal period of time the Committee found that the conditions laid down by law and the rest of the parliamentary term of office of Marija Lugaric ceased on the 8th day from the day of the application and that the conduct of the deputy representative, Vesni Željnik, ceased on that day. Following this, the Mandate-Immunity Commission unanimously proposes to the Croatian Parliament to decide on the suspension of the term of office of representative Marija Lugaric with the date of 26 June 2012 and to suspend the conduct of the deputy deputy representative of Vesna Zeljenjak from 26 June 2012.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14197	I'm opening a debate on the Mandate-Immunity Commission report. Any interested in the debate? I can confirm there isn't. I'm confirming there's no record of a hearing. I'm making a motion for a vote. Please state who's in favour of the motion for a decision? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 117 votes for the proposed decision. I congratulate my colleague Marija Lugarić once more, and she already took the oath at the Constitutional session of the Croatian Parliament. Congratulations, everyone, welcome amongst the MPs. ... Next - Report by the Mandate-Immunity Commission on the termination of the term of office of the late representative Boris Šprem and the start of the conduct of the deputy deputy representative of Vesna Zeljenjak. [[Applause.]] I ask the President of the Mandate-Immunity Commission to file a report to Mrs. Gordan Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14198	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues. The mandate-immunity commission discussed at the 14th session of the 26th edition of Croatia's SDA notification for the replacement of the late representative Boris Šprem, who submitted 23rd lipopad to the president. Boris Šprem was elected representative in the 7th session at the Constitutional session held on 22 December and unanimously elected president of the Croatian Parliament. The Commission found that the death of agent Boris Spremo was based on Article 10. On the basis of the SDP’s notice, instead of the deceased representative’s duties, the legislator of the deputy representative Vesna Željnik shall act. The mandate-immunity committee decided, in turn, to propose to the Croatian Parliament a decision on the termination of the parliamentary mandate and the start of the conduct of the deputy deputy. On 30 September 2012, the parliamentary term of office of Representative Boris Šprem ceased, and the parliamentary duty in accordance with Article 9(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union was suspended. The Rules of Procedure of 26 October 2012 shall begin to act as Deputy Representative of the Vesna Željnik.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14199	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Are there any reports of a hearing? No, I'm not. I'm not. I'm closing the debate. By voting, by raising our hands to decide on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you very much. Does anyone mind? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 121 votes for the proposed decision. Congratulations, Vesna Railway. She also took the oath in the constitution of the Parliament. However, I wish them further successful work in the Croatian Parliament between us. Thank you very much. [[Applause.]] Moving to the next item of the agenda: 1. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Commercial Companies, emergency procedure, first and second reading of the PZE No. 139 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the bill in the mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall unite the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 164. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the law was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership and the Committee on European Integration. You received reports from the working bodies at the session. Does the Government of the Republic of Croatia want to add an explanation of the proposal? Yeah. Justice Minister Orsat Miljanic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14201	Thank you very much. Therefore, the honourable representatives before you are the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Commercial Society. We're going to change for three reasons. One is compliance with the EU acquis in the section relating to the rights of companies. Secondly, we believe that the Institute is simply a limited-responsibility society and we allow the launch and promotion of economic activities across a wider circle of citizens than it is now and the third is to remove certain errors that have been observed through court practice, which raise doubts about the possibility of punishing the administration for not launching bankruptcy proceedings in time. So, these amendments are in line with the Shareholder Rights Directive included in a particular market. In fact, we introduce certain solutions that make it easier for stakeholders to supplement the agenda for the main assembly, simplifying the granting of the power to exercise their right to vote and the right to deny the provision of information to shareholders only if this justifies the interests of society. We are also in line with the Directive on reporting requirements documented in the case of mergers and mergers and division of companies, in short simplifying the procedure and in fact easing the whole process. With these amendments, we will fully comply with the EU acquis in the section relating to the ZTD to the Company Act. The next amendment is the introduction, the possibility of setting up a so-called a simple limited-responsibility society. The need for this intervention comes multiple. One thing is that after entering the European Union, countries that do not have the opportunity to make such a big migration of entrepreneurs because they go to countries where such a possibility exists. Secondly, we want to facilitate the entry into the world of entrepreneurs who have some idea, who are inventive and who want to be tempted in entrepreneurship. Thirdly, we expect this to contribute to preventing unregistered activities, because now through this mechanism we will simply have the possibility of establishing a limited liability society, so everyone will be able to enter the market and try themselves as entrepreneurs. In front of you a package with this law that is not here today, but will be next week, are also amendments to the Law on Court and Public Taxes with which we will actually reduce the cost of the registration of such a society so that it will fall below 1000 kuna from the present 3,000 to 4,000 kuna. So we're talking about this simply. What may be just two more three things, so by law you will see certain patterns that will speed up and facilitate registration and what may be very important, in order to ensure the financial stability of these companies, it is envisaged that they must have legal reserves in which a quarter of the amounts are made so that they reach the core capital of a limited liability society. The final amendment was, in the case of the Supreme Court, the differences in interpretation of the provisions of the Company Act relating to criminal liability for the initiation of bankruptcy, i.e. for the non-starting of bankruptcy and with these amendments, so that all persons who do not launch the bankruptcy within the legal period will be held liable for this criminal offence. That's it, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14202	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. Do the Committee's working bodies want to take the floor? I don't think so. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. We are going to debate the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The first one was registered for discussion by the Croatian Labour Representatives' Club and the respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14203	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The former prime minister whose right hand was blasphemously beaten smarter than Jesus, the former prime minister whose name today in this house is untasteful even to mention it, claimed before police officers with a few years late put handcuffs on his hands, Croatia is in a banana. I think it's completely wrong. Croatia is a banana country. I believe that many are interested in the arguments in favour of this claim, there are thousands of them. I'll list only a few of them, and it concerns directly the Company Act. The motive for talking about these cases is that the new amendments and additions of the Company Act provide for simple companies, namely a simple company with limited liability. They are proposed by the government as one of the anti-crisis, anti-recession, rescue solutions, one of the solutions to employment, one of the solutions to curb the gray economy. Simple companies will be able to start with a capital of 10 kuna. And what's missing from the d.o.o.? They're expensive, despite the fact that they don't need to be invested in a kuna. Namely, the underlying capital of... thousands of kunas can also be provided in things, computers, chairs, cell phones, copiers and tables and other things. [[You don't understand.]] A simple limited-responsibility society will reduce, said Zoran Milanovic on behalf of the government, not my smallness, the migration of Croatian entrepreneurs, will facilitate entry into the business venture and prevent unregistered activities. How we didn't think of that before. And now it's coming back to the very beginning, for example, to prove that claim about the banana state, and this thesis of the government relativises to pain. Međimurje's high-building works have been carried out for INGRA construction jobs in Libya. INGRA Međimurju didn't want to pay for those jobs. Why, because it can be done in Croatia, because in Croatia it appears to be a national sport of rich and powerful. In the meantime, he sues INGRA, and he gets one court, so he loses so he loses so he gets 17 years. Look out, 17 full years. Because of companies like INGRA, Međimurje high-building goes into bankruptcy and eventually into liquidation. For 17 years, workers have been waiting for their blood-earned money taken from them by INGRA, Croatian courts and the Croatian state by inaction, by thieving. Even INGRA doesn't dispute the debt, but it doesn't agree with the level of debt, it doesn't agree with interest, and the courts allow it to disagree. Once a verdict has been passed, it will be annulled again in a court of law for 17 years. Whether it's d.d., is it d.o.o., is it simple d.o.o. Such entrepreneurial ventures in Croatia are countless. Do you know how the inescapable part of the company operates? For example, Montmontage d.d. does business, and their daughter's company d.o.o. Or tomorrow maybe simple companies hire workers. Montmontage d.d. charges jobs, workers in the d.o.o. mostly without property work and do not receive salaries or receive change, collect crumbs from the table. A similar model is used by the Industrogradnja d.d., the famous businessman of Mr Galinca, manipulates societies. One picks money, the other works, and they're happy when, like I said, they drop crumbs off the table. Even more drastic, but with a smarter language than Jesus, which this right hand side celebrated as a saint, the banana case concerns the Croatian Parliament, the Ministry of Justice, courts and judges. This banana example that the Germans, the Swedes, the Swiss, the Finnishs, the Canadians, the Australians, would think was borrowed from some joke suggests a tragic practice. Do you know why no one has been liable for late or unrunning bankruptcy in recent years? Because the 2008 Trade Society Act released part of the sentence providing for criminal sanctions in money or in prison for up to two years. Yes, the punishments, imagine these banalities or that miracle, were lost in the transcription. The judges kept to the crumbs of sentences, you won't believe it, like a drunk float. Be careful, for the fact that the Parliament passed a law on certain sanctions for those who do not take bankruptcy in cases where bankruptcy is to be launched, all MPs knew, but none suggested that a manifest error or diversion to which I was more prone to correct. Obviously, the transcriptive diversion corresponded to both judges and bankruptcy managers and owners, all except, of course, those who are the most indisposed – workers. Therefore, the answer to the question is how many board members or executive directors have been convicted of not launching the bankruptcy proceedings. No one's been convicted. Whoever proves me otherwise, I'm taking him to lunch as he chooses. You want another non-sensus? There he is. It happened again at the Croatian Parliament. Croatian Labourists – Party of Work 1. In March 2012, they proposed bankruptcy conclusions to prevent the apparent robbery of triumvirate – owners, bankruptcy managers, bankruptcy judges. Despite the fact that Croatian bankruptcy only starts when all assets and creditors are drained from the company, and in the first place they are workers, they run out of anything. The government has denied that there is an illegal practice of bankruptcy in Croatia. In addition, the government finds that the possibility is prescribed, but not the obligation to open a bankruptcy proceedings. Because Article 4. The bankruptcy law determines that bankruptcy can be opened if any of the reasons provided for by law are established. You can, but you don't have to. Not even when uncontested reasons for bankruptcy have been established – incompetence for payment and over-indebtedness. The bankruptcy agony continues at the time of the Government of Zoran Milanovic, who will try to disprove all these facts embarrassing for the Croatian judiciary, the slave for the workers from the Bible or from the life of Josip Radnik. Who thinks or who claims that in all this judicial chaos, simple companies with limited responsibility will reduce the migration of Croatian entrepreneurs, facilitate citizens' entry into a business venture and prevent unregistered activities as stated in the clarification of the proposal for complementarity and amendment of this law. In order for all other companies to function to be simple and simple, it must meet the purpose of many other preconditions. The functioning of the judiciary is the first. What has been done to make the judiciary work, to be the foundation of the state, a solid foundation of society, a guarantee of the safety of citizens, an impeccable insurance to business people. Nothing has been done, nor has R been achieved by judicial reform. It is not at the top of the barriers to investment in Croatia The Labour Act, as capitalists want to push the public, but at the top of the obstacles is legal uncertainty, rigid, inefficient and corrupt bureaucracy, a bunch of amazing certificates, permits and consent. Trade courts in Croatia are more obstacles than Mont Everest. But that's what this government like neither the previous one nor the sound of it. In order for a simple company provided for by this law to succeed, it is also necessary to have a regulated market with a regulated judiciary. I wonder what the d.o.o.'s missing? Why don't we cut the cost of starting all the companies? Why not simplify the establishment of all companies and increase inspections and controls? Why are the notation fees for changing the administration of a limited liability society enormous? Try to change management in society. You will see how much you will first of all have to fill out the paper and what you need to pay and how much you need to pay for one caste to get unwarrantedly rich at the expense of others. I fear that simple societies will be even more insecure both in the legal sense and in payment terms. There will be no inspections, no controls, no effective judiciary in simple societies, even more uncertainty for workers. Estonia and Latvia, for example, prove that for the ease of business the most important removal is primarily administrative barriers. These countries in the 2009 transition had a 16% drop in GDP compared to 2008, but after removing administrative barriers in 2011 grew 6.3% compared to 2010. Today, Estonia and Latvia are in 24 places and 21 places, and Croatia is 143 in the world. Without order in bureaucracy, without abolishing a ton of permits, opinions and certificates, without legal certainty, and legal certainty, Croatia is impossible to grow the economy with and without simple societies. These amendments and additions to the Commercial Society Act return those in the copy to the loss of criminal responsibility for the non-starting of bankruptcy proceedings in cases where the company faces insolvency, but not for the purpose of ousting the company. On the contrary, in order to define the problems in due time, so that a bankruptcy plan could be drawn up in due time and the company would then continue to operate, so that workers would continue to have a guaranteed existence, so that the state would collect taxes and capitalists would adequately taxed profits. To help these amendments to the law, the business ideal proved by many countries and in the biggest crisis is not impossible to achieve. First, all provisions need to be rewritten correctly. Secondly, they should be read and interpreted correctly, and thirdly should be implemented in practice. We've done everything wrong so far. That's why our laws were spelled correctly or incorrectly, and it doesn't matter whether the dead letters on paper are correct or incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14204	Thank you very much. We've got two lines reported. He's the first respected representative of Maria Habek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14205	An esteemed colleague here when you were talking about the initiation of criminal proceedings I would just like to correct you if it wasn't true that they didn't initiate criminal proceedings against persons who weren't as responsible persons at the time of the bankruptcy. Namely, I personally know a few cases in the County of Međimurje, but which cases are I'll tell you in 4 eyes, but there's no need to go to lunch with you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14206	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14207	So I'd like you to really tell me, you can do it in four eyes, you can write those examples, because you didn't answer me like you did, but I can't tell you in public. So say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14208	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Ivan Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14209	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good morning, everyone. So I have to replicate my colleague Vuksic in view of the fact that I don't know how many times we hear from him by referring to the practice of a 100-year-old or a 50-year-old saying constantly about a capital and labour ratio. It is both dangerous and unnecessary in 2012 in Croatia, and it constantly jumps into its mouth every time because on the one hand it calls for economic growth as if it were going to happen in itself, and on the other hand it talks about these same exploiters who have capital that is deliberately doing loss, deliberately firing people and do not want to be successful. So, you will have to decide whether we want economic growth in Croatia, who will be the bearer of economic growth. I think in the 21st century it will be medium, small and large entrepreneurs in Croatia. Whether they're foreign or domestic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14210	Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14211	Well, I don't think I agree, you're wrong. The capital and labour ratio is 150 years old and will be another 150 years old and it is natural that there is a conflict between labour and capital. However, Croatian society is an unsettled society, in the Croatian society workers in this conflict between capital and capital always lose, in Croatian society too little care about labour rights, workers who are no newspapers and you know as well. No one's saying, we're saying, when Croatian laborers talk, they talk about malignancy about mistakes, not essentially about capitalists and workers. As there are probably bad workers, so there are bad capitalists. With this in Croatia compared to the rest of the world, compared to the rest of Europe, it is evident. And I know you don't need to handle cases, just remember robbery conversions, remember many examples. After all, I've been telling you about Montague, about Industrial Construction, about many companies that are being manipulated, where they hire workers in companies that don't even have kunas, they don't have business spaces, they may only have phone devices and other companies get their money collected. You have hundreds of examples like this, the Employers' Association never spoke of it openly.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14212	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the replicas and answers to the replicas. The next club is SDP and respected representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14213	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. It was interesting to listen to this debate about Carl Marx and his capital part, but back to the topic, which is in this case the Company Act. The subject of these amendments, of course, as Mr. Minister has said, are, above all, consistent with the acquis, i.e. EU directives, I would say perhaps small changes, corrections and harmonisation of the text of the law spoken of by the esteemed colleague Vuksic and where I sincerely support his discussion concerning the criminal part of the non-starting of bankruptcy proceedings and the way in which the crime so far has been treated in the Croatian judiciary, and the easiest description for this treatment is anyone's concern. And there's a colleague you're right about. However, what you are wrong about is, in my opinion, the most important, most important newspaper that is introduced by these amendments and additions, which is the introduction of a new one, although it would be more precise to say the modified form of a company of capital, which is simply a limited company. Several years ago, when amendments and additions to the Law on Commercial Companies were made to a number of major discussions, it may have been she who would increase the share capital for a limited liability company. There was talk of increasing capital from 20 to 50, 100 thousand kunas I don't know how much where one was created I'd say the apparent illusion that the capital level is in a direct causal relationship with the ability of a company to carry out its obligations. But she's not. A trading company will only be able to fulfil its obligations and only when an entrepreneur acting on the market through that company is doing well when his business is well, when he is doing well. And you're right about that, too. The Republic of Croatia must indeed reduce administrative barriers to the business of companies, and since the new year the Republic of Croatia has been doing so. What will we achieve by introducing this simple society with limited responsibility? Well, we're going to achieve that today anyone who has an idea, anyone who has a 20, 30 or 80 can go to a public notary and for less than 1000 kuna with all the basic capital costs, court fees, public records fees start working and operating on the market. Will they all make it? Of course not. Never all entrepreneurs have succeeded, but I'm sure at least one part of them will succeed and contribute to the improvement of our homeland with their work. Will these entrepreneurs be able to fulfil their obligations, will they be able to pay their debts? Everyone won't, they never could, whether their share capital is 10, 20 thousand kuna, 100 thousand kuna, or a billion kuna. The level of underlying capital with the possibility of settlement has nothing to do with it. The underlying capital is primarily the amount of money invested in society so that the company can start operating. Of course it's easier to start doing business with 20 or 100 thousand kunas, but if an entrepreneur has an idea, a good idea, and he doesn't have money, then we're making it easier on him. In some ways these amendments and additions to the law are also a response to the remarks, i.e. the wishes made by Croatian craftsmen, which is that after the Constitutional Court intervened in the Law on crafts to enable simpler operations in a way that did not correspond to all their assets. Those who accept such a business will establish a simple limited liability society but will then have to accept a certain other tax regime and, as the minister pointed out, will have to make sure that the legal reserves are set aside and thus at least make it possible for those who cooperate with them to be sure that their obligations will be met. And I would finally answer one question, why is this law in an emergency procedure? And it's easy to answer, because of the 300 thousand unemployed in Croatia. Is all 300 grand going to get rid of this law? He won't, but he'll get rid of the part. When we add to this other laws that we will discuss at this session, which is about encouraging investment and encouraging entrepreneurs, I am sure that in due course we will improve the economic growth of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14214	Thank you, too. Your Honor, we have a signed replica. Dear Representative Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14215	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I would replicate Mr. Grbino in a way, he wondered what we would achieve with this introduction of societies, etc. So he said we'd sort of reduce unemployment. I'd replicate with this law let him be I might raise my hand to him so it doesn't turn out now that we're against simplifying the process of opening companies etc. I'll avoid that criticism, but my replica is to Mr. Grbino, nothing will be fasting. It is not today, Mr. Grubin, the problem of opening companies in Croatia, but we have a problem closing these existing ones, and you can't have this government fig leaf for all missed economic policy and for everything that doesn't do for 300 to 400 thousand unemployed, for reducing GDP, for increasing unemployment, for reducing employment, means for all missed policies and all missed ideas, and in fact this is in some way a fig leaf for the hopelessness of the government in any sense that this country would pull forward and draw out of recession. So you throw a fig leaf not only with this, but you throw a fig leaf and this ratification of borders for BiH. who is interested today in what we need besides the fact that Milanovic needs this kind of stupidity to put into Croatian media space in order to draw attention in some way because of the state's sinking in economic terms and nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14216	Thank you for this. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Peja Grbih.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14217	Well, here it was very interesting to hear how we came to the border with a simple society with limited responsibility. But I will return to the subject of this law. Maybe it's a fig leaf, but at least it's something. This may not solve all the problems that we in the Republic of Croatia with the unemployed and job cuts have, but at least some will solve. Look, some things overnight are impossible to correct and you're right, the biggest problem of the Republic of Croatia are companies, crafts, entrepreneurs who stop working but fix this situation cannot be done overnight. It was supposed to react on time, it was supposed to react in 2007, 2008, 2009, when some of them stuck their heads in the sand like an owl. And yes, we have to react to that and that we have to work on it more precisely than anything else. But if you had responded in time and worked on time, it would have been easier for all of us. And then maybe we wouldn't have to reach for what you call a fig leaf. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14218	Thank you, Your Honor. The next club is the HDZ club and respected representative Ana Lovrin. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14219	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Here we have today at the plenary session a debate on the Law that bears the label of the PZE, which says that this proposal of the law harmonizes our law with the European acquis and, as such, in accordance with the Parliamentary Rules of Procedure, has a provision to go into emergency proceedings without voting on it. But here I did my best, so I examined and summed up that out of 49 proposed articles of amendment and addition of Law 18, less than half refers to harmonisation with the European acquis. The other 27 articles refer to the correction of the legal text, or to the harmonisation of the terms of the consolidated text with the previous amendments and additions, which have changed individual terms but have not been consistently done in all articles of the law, which should of course have been done. And so is the clarification of certain provisions of the law, in particular, on the criminal liability of those who do not launch bankruptcy when legal conditions are met, which should also have been done. So when we look at this law, half of it is to comply with the provisions of the EU directive that we hardly have and what to discuss here because we are obliged to do so. This is good, though, because these provisions refer to the fact that the accession process is simpler and that it is cheaper which should also be welcomed. And the provisions when it can be denied to shareholders that it can only be so if there are legitimate business interests, interests of protection of confidential data, etc. Therefore, the principle that the short notice must be an exception rather than a rule is introduced to some extent. This is the EU's gain and we have nothing to discuss. We also don't have to discuss what, but what we have to discuss, and so I think it would be good if this law were in that part of the small amendment, but it's de facto what the change that can be discussed is 4 articles that introduce a new form in the Commercial Society Act, which is simply a society with limited responsibility. These four articles refer to the company's company as such, it is said that it reduces the underlying capital, i.e. the compulsory share capital for such a company to 10 kuna and a minimum stake of 1 kuna, to limit that such a company may have only one member of the administration and three founders, and that it must be determined that it must make a quarter of the profits in the reserves. It is difficult to oppose what is called or said to trigger economic recovery and reduce unemployment in Croatia. It's just hard not to support it. But what we might be able to discuss and what if this law in that part had gone into two readings and the proposer could then hear and accept, perhaps in the final proposal, is whether these good intentions that we cannot challenge, whether these amendments and additions to the Law on Commercial Society are actually achieved. This effort is commendable to any effort that would contribute to economic recovery and employment. We have heard that one reason to reduce and prevent the migration of entrepreneurs is to prevent the grey economy. So I'm really asking you here if they're really going to stop someone from moving to start a company in another country, 20 thousand kuna, so they can't find 20 thousand kunas of core capital, and they're going to do some entrepreneurship, and that's why they'd go to, say, Hungary, I think there's this simple society there, to start it in Hungary, and then go back and do business through a branch in Croatia. I just can't believe it. So we have something else that if this were discussed in two readings we could get data and we could compare this proposed form of a new company with existing actors in legal and economic transport, which is limited liability and trades. Let us not forget, when a company is established, it corresponds to others with its assets entered in the company and the underlying capital. The craftsman corresponds to his entire assets for the obligations of his craft. The society of whatever obligations it creates will only correspond to what it has brought into society. I'm not talking about civil liability for damages that could possibly be filed and charged by the founders, but of course it's a different story. Therefore, and we have heard through this meeting of the Parliament precisely representatives of the Ministry of Finance, the current Ministry of Finance, which proposed exactly the opposite, which is that the core capital of companies needs to be increased by compulsory core capital precisely in order to strengthen the responsibility and seriousness of business entrepreneurs. And so on the board and we asked the proposer's representative if consultations were carried out with other ministries, I mainly think here the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy, which are the input indicators, how many indications from the sphere of the economy that people can't start their jobs because they have too much of 20 thousand kunas of core capital and the cost of setting up 3-4 thousand kunas as we heard the minister. We did not get that answer, and therefore we are not sure that this intervention in one serious law, which is the Law on Commercial Companies, by introducing the possibility of establishing a company with 10 kuna of core capital and 1 kuna of the role will be exactly the trigger and trigger and blocker of the economy. It doesn't seem to us. Yesterday we heard the prime minister who in answering questions objected to us not asking him about the economy and not even criticizing him, and that he was killing something that was going hard and we weren't even criticizing. Here we are not criticizing, just pointing to all the doubts of the proposed changes. What I keep completely inappropriate in this proposal, although this also explains by reducing the costs to the entrepreneur, but I absolutely do not think that it is the right way, and that is that when a simple limited liability company which is subject to specific legal provisions reaches the amount of basic capital of 20 thousand kunas then it becomes, in fact, common company with limited liability, which will be subject to the legal provisions of the Company Act for a limited liability company, but it will have the right to leave a further mark in the company that it is simply a limited liability company. We simply keep this inadmissible for the reason that the Commercial Society Act determines what is the mandatory component of the company, which must be highlighted in the company. Through the company’s company with other actors in legal and economic traffic, the company’s identity card is therefore required by law and provided for by the company’s mandatory components. In this case, what the company says isn't responding to the real situation. So some of the participants in the business, in entrepreneurship, in legal traffic, the company's title is simply a limited liability company and it says that those legal provisions apply then, its capital is based below 20 thousand kuna, etc., and that is not so but it actually has a larger capital, other provisions apply but will not be known in business and legal traffic. I also warn of the possibility of abuse. I didn't have time to analyze whether there was any interest or not, but the fact that there's a possibility that then, why someone would start a limited liability company with 20,000 kunas of capital and higher costs. Anyone can establish a simple limited liability company, with the exemption from public registration fees with very small court fees and then quickly become a limited liability company. There is no reshaping obligation, therefore with lower costs. And that might be on a good track, for example, that as many people as possible start just hiring, dealing, opening jobs, etc. But then I don't see any reason to change these four articles and introduce a new form. Then a simple article, it seems to me, in 389 that regulates how much minimum base capital could be changed in such a way as to replace 20,000 kuna with the word, let's say 500 kuna or 200 kuna, and that would solve everything. So they would simplify the whole procedure and the changes and additions, as well as making it easier for people between so many forms of companies. And in the end, I would still warn because the Legislative Committee was not manifested, so we didn't hear whether the amendment we discussed on the board would be submitted, and I suggested it and noticed it. So, in addition to Article 4 of the proposed amendments, simply one nomotechnic seems to me a awkwardness where it is proposed to amend the article of the law in order to harmonise the source of text and publication in the electronic form of "National Journals", so we believe that it must be done by the "National Journal" itself, and not by changing the law to bring it into line with the original text. Here's what we're really warning the promoter that we should get rid of. Here and finally again, although we should welcome every intention to strengthen the economy and entrepreneurship, we doubt that such changes and additions to this law are the right way to achieve this. What seems to me to be choking entrepreneurs today in Croatia, and what attention should be paid to that we have already heard. This is certainly an administration, bureaucracy, quantity of certificates and excerpts to be made, which would be very easy to need and could also be obtained under the applicable administrative procedure law by official duty in each state office which is governing a particular matter. So that's the first thing. I'd say uninterested and slow red tape. The tax press, which is growing and greater and legal uncertainty every day, which is the basic brake of entrepreneurship, is that nothing can be planned in the long term and nothing can be certain, and for entrepreneurship and business, it is certainly important and important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14220	Thank you, too, Your Honor. The next club is the HDSSB Club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14221	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, with an associate, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have before us a debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Commercial Companies. At the beginning of the discussion, the HDSSB believes that this legislative proposal does not primarily need to be pessimistic. If there is any optimism, if something in its provisions of the law allows for new employment, a reduction of unemployment, we primarily consider it possible for young people here to go into the first entrepreneurial venture. We cannot believe that a simple limited-responsibility society is something that could mean in the very beginning some big business venture and business. All today is the time in which we live the risk, and so is the launch of entrepreneurship, the enterprise is a risk. The one who creates the idea, the one who comes out of the market with his idea, and the first entrepreneurial steps that this bill requires and can create a kind of risk. That it is good to allow this proposed model to start a business with a minimum capital of 10 kuna paid in full in cash, the minimum nominal amount of one kuna. That's something that's for those first steps in entrepreneurship good. What the minister has announced and we support the same, which is that with this legislative proposal there will be a number of other legal proposals, and above all those concerning public records fees, court fees, the costs of publication in "The People's Newspaper". So it's not just this cost of 10 kuna and one kuna but it increases those costs to something like 750 kuna, maybe more. So what used to be 5000 kunas and 20,000 kunas this bill reduces and allows people who don't have enough resources to make their first entrepreneurial steps come true here with these amendments to the law. That this is not a newspaper in the European Union says that this is a European law, a harmonisation with European directives in this section relating to companies, amendments and additions to the laws that the European Council and Parliament Directives required to be introduced into the legislative proposal. It is also a European law to prevent the fear that our young people, entrepreneurs and people with entrepreneurial ideas after Croatia's entry into the European Union can turn to another country to establish this simple society with limited responsibility for one euro. This was also our legal obligation to put such a legal proposal in the parliamentary procedure. And therefore, by entering Croatia into the European Union, that all citizens and our countries should be equal in front of all European laws, and that is also the urgency of this legislative proposal to equalise ourselves with the rights of citizens of the European Union. If this business achieves significant steps and revenues, if the underlying capital is increased to what we have so far provided by law for companies with limited liability to 20 000 kuna, this society will grow into such a society and that is, therefore, foreseen and justified. If this business is not good, what we are afraid of, we are afraid that, we also see that there is a great interest in trade courts for the establishment of these companies, that this momentum is not at first great, and when problems arise today, it is not difficult to start with the economic situation of business so that there is no sudden collapse of such simple societies with limited responsibility so that people find themselves in some state of integrity. What, therefore, as representatives in the Croatian Parliament, is what is our obligation, which is that we create a positive economic and business environment for the legal proposals that are ahead of us. What is the problem of Croatian society is not only this government today but the problem of all governments so far. These are the problems of our large bureaucracy, our great demands and demands when both crafts and limited liability companies are established and this simple company is also increasing the risk that, at this very moment, interest is reduced, large taxes, taxes, taxes, contributions, different memberships in economic chambers, different fees are also hitching off the initiative and the possibility of these ventures. Well, that's what's ahead of us and that's what the HDSB club supports. That what was announced in Plan 21's government programme that unemployment would be reduced, that entrepreneurs would be given new investments, a new cover to do so. What we all have to do together, regardless of who is sitting in government, is to reduce unemployment in Croatia. That even this legislative proposal is not a fairy tale we are aware of because this small law with 50 articles of harmonisation with European directives and EU laws cannot reduce the number of unemployment in this momentum that awaits people who will be first in steps to achieve their business. Many problems, many laws, many new solutions that we will have to make in order for this small law to really be a bill of momentum for new employment. Anything that will reduce the number of unemployed at the bureaus, anything that will enable people who are finishing schools and colleges today to launch a new initiative, new businesses should also support. What this law regulates further, and these are changes concerning criminal responsibilities and persecution of those who are not non-equivocal companies that have applied for bankruptcy, it should also be supported, but it should be pointed out that the legal provision applies to all. We've sometimes had problems with state-owned companies when companies find themselves in doubt which with 150, 170, 200 workers so that they find themselves in a conflict with the interests of the union, the fear that people will end up on the streets of fear of bankruptcy. Thus, the persons responsible are also found in a criminal offence, in front of a prosecution, and they are on a scale between one and the other. So what we have brought as well as a European commitment should be the same for everyone. Laws should be implemented and supported in such a way that people who are responsible for their duty cannot face problems if society comes before insolvency and bankruptcy, all laws must be equal in Croatia for all. At this point, the HDSB club supports this law in the part where employment and initiatives are allowed, and therefore the possibility for young people to move forward with the first entrepreneurial venture, and what our concern is that, here we call on both the government and the responsible person and the ministry, to find new solutions for these other legal proposals, which are also the framework for this law, in order for this cost to really be the cost provided for by this law and for this entrepreneurial swing to be truly achieved. So far, we can say this freely not only can we make this legislative proposal but we have a lot of work to do, a lot of new legal solutions, a lot of harmonisation with European practice and regulations that we can really say that one of these laws will reduce unemployment and be some big business venture. We support all those who go according to these ideas and support everything that will reduce the number of unemployed in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14222	Thank you, Your Honor. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, the position will be delivered by the respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14223	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, on the day of the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU, all companies established in other Member States will act freely in the area of the Republic of Croatia without the need to establish separate organisational forms or set up firms in the Republic of Croatia. It's also in the preamble to say so by this law. Harmonisation is a law with the EU, but what is crucial is not just a harmonisation that is creating conditions, that is, what this government has been continuously doing since coming to power, creating conditions for better business, for competitiveness, and not just for so-called. reducing unemployment because you can administratively reduce unemployment, statistically, but it is crucial to increase employment. Small and medium-sized enterprises, especially small, are 98% of total entrepreneurship, i.e. income in small, medium and large enterprises. With medium entrepreneurship 99.5% of Croatia's income is generated by small and medium-sized enterprises. More than 250,000 employees are in small entrepreneurship. In addition to harmonisation, this law really opens the conditions for companies to be established in the simplest way, simple companies with limited liability that allow self-employment in the first order, and then, of course, the development and employment of others. It should be noted that this law as well as most of the laws proposed by this Government to this House and which this House has mostly adopted are related to support and are a broader aspect than just law and nothing else. What makes this law possible after the establishment of a simple limited-responsibility society in accordance with the other laws that we have passed or the laws that are before this House of Commons which will be held at this plenary session. Let's not forget the support for self-employment in companies is 24 thousand and 198 kuna. So, all those who are with 10 kuna and probably 750 kuna cca when the public record tariff is reduced will be able to use self-employment funds of 24 thousand 198 kuna per year. It's support. Paying for wages for employment for 2 years means freeing the payment of contributions if employed for 2 years by new employees in these companies is also something this government has provided. There is also a possibility for these very companies to rent in state buildings, i.e. in entrepreneurship incubators for one kuna. So this law itself is by itself good, it is by itself excellent. It creates conditions, it creates space for development, space especially for self-employment, and of course for every entrepreneurial initiative and vision in which it really needs little resources. But when you complete the funds provided for self-employment, when you complete it with HBOR's loans to HBOR's loans when we adopt a law to boost investment and improve the investment environment that for those who are more willing to take on more, which will be able to get and support even greater and exempt from profit taxes, then we get one package in which this law is not a classic harmonisation with the EU, it is only a benefit of entering the EU, a benefit from the possibility that we can provide citizens and citizens of Croatia with real business, and that the state provides them with maximum conditions at this time. Of course, the conditions never enough, the benefits never enough, but with the observed state that we have and with all these laws and conditions that we create, we can freely say almost the difference in heaven and earth. Of course, what is important is that we do not repeat the situations that were happening to us in the 1990s when we open up a lot of companies, so there was a situation where they were neither doing what was right nor paying, and they left very large debts, rather strictly establishing and regulating the terms and conditions and payment of the stakes for the assumed business stakes, legal reserves, dealings in the event of inability to pay. This is what this government is extremely concerned about and will apply all the strict necessary measures. Of course, the responsibility of the administration is as it is in companies with limited responsibility and with the Financial Business Act, which will soon be here in front of parliamentary representatives. All those responsibilities and obligations relating to insolvency and insolvency will be regulated. Of course, this law also simplifies the work of stock companies and responsibilities and the way shareholders work and decision-making, simplifies processes, ensures and improves the possibility through the internet of information but also the obligation to use this technology which is not, in any case, what would often happen is a classical European law of harmonisation because we harmonize it. This is a law that promotes, this is a law that not only needs to reduce unemployment, it must increase employment. The HNS club supports this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14224	Thank you, Your Honor. We have a single reported replica of your exposure, it's a respected representative of Đurjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14225	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's my colleague Gjurkovic, I'm glad you mentioned this 90th and remembered some of the privatisation problems. Of course, everything that's good to support, let's not forget the former government of Mrs. Kosor and the ministers here sit down that the former government has also invested some 4 billion kunas with incentive loans and incentives. However, the truth and it is well you listed it should be afraid of the daughter's company. For example. Mr. Cacic when he went to the privatization of Coning he founded five daughters' companies. In '93, Coning was worth 114 marks for him to buy so 5 daughters about staying really, the audit she found, remained due 117 million kuna at the time but it went out of date. Another 57 million kuna of taxes remained due, and that went out of date. And it really needs to be taken care of that that some of the maheres who are professional in their manner I would say not to do it but to really give the chance to the young and perspectives and that they really do do everything they wanted through their business and that they have their profits but that, of course, you should prevent what you were talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14226	Thank you very much. Replication response, respected representative Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14227	I thank the honourable representative. I wasn't talking about privatisation, I was talking about setting up a company most often of the stock companies with limited responsibility when at the time of HDZ authorities you fired and sent to retirement, so today we have problems in Croatian society where people had to start their bread and they didn't know how to manage it. That is why I stressed that we do not have such things happening to warn that we are aware of the facts that are happening. And I know that you worship Mr. Cacic so you can keep mentioning him, and it turns out that he was more than a successful businessman and minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14228	Thank you very much. We have exhausted the list of registered clubs in the Croatian Assembly for discussion on this topic. We're moving on to a ten-minute debate individually. The first is a respected representative of Martina Dalic. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14229	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I would actually like to look at this problem from another perspective in relation to the one that was highlighted and spoken by almost all speakers, and this perspective is actually what it is and where it is in a certain way an obstacle to faster Croatian growth and competitiveness. One of them is certainly and very often highlights the ease and speed of setting up new companies and new companies. I am personally skeptical of the exact faith in that number of days, but what is relevant is a comparison compared to other countries with which we measure ourselves in some way and where this process lasts longer in Croatia than in some competing countries. And it's said then that's one development obstacle, and in order to increase the competitiveness of the economy, we have to deal with this issue. I think that this solution here that is proposed doesn't actually change anything on the reality of this competitive obstacle, but rather the opposite of the legal system introduces another form that will further complicate it and further create misunderstandings in reality. Why am I saying that? Because capital in economic terms serves in some way as a guarantee to the believers and to all those counterparties in the economic process. There is no economic difference between the size of the capital of 10 kuna and the size of the capital of 20 thousand kuna. Neither gives a particularly strong guarantee to those with whom such a company works and cooperates. I therefore think that it would be much better for this problem to be approached in a more courageous and radical way and that it was simply said that in Croatia it would be possible to start a company, a limited liability society with 10 kuna capital, and that the legislation's efforts had been directed towards resolving what still needs to be done in this process, and there is much to be done, to go around various institutions and still all together for quite a long time, and to do so you have to pay for a lawyer. I believe, therefore, that only by opening up the possibility of a company with a basic capital of 10 kuna will not achieve the effects that are desired but also by introducing another form into the legal system, another instrument, but those real problems that exist in the area of the establishment of societies and which discourage individuals from accepting this deal remain unresolved. Because it was talked about here, of course, and about the need, my colleague Gjurkovic said that it was important to make sure that these societies were doing their proper business. And of course, it is important to look out for those who have 20 thousand kunas because in economic terms there is no difference in the strength and position of these companies on the market. So I wouldn't go any further, but I'd say that when there are topics that are about competitiveness, they're numerous, they're important, that we go with real, real, real and solutions that are really going to change something. This is not sure that it will bring the effects it wants because all the problems that are related to the opening of the society for 20 thousand kunas remain more or less here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14230	Thank you, too, Your Honor. A replica has been reported to your presentation. Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14231	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Fellow Dalić, you were talking about perspective, seeing from one perspective and another perspective, and in that part I really have nothing to add, but I look at these good intentions from the perspective of the village. Here, let's say the effort to secure jobs, create jobs, and there's nothing to object to because every job is an immeasurable wealth anyway. But what I'm saying is that in our village in these circumstances of concern for villages, I'm not responsible for saying something completely different is happening, which is that here are the family farms that are also, in some way, entrepreneurs, small entrepreneurs that over 100,000 have, every day of the crash. Every day, one or two OPGs fail. The price of milk is not at 2.43 as much as it was spoken when the minister negotiated on milk. Milk is 1.70 kuna. Every day one and two, three family farms fail and one or two or three or five jobs. I responsibly argue that in this area of agriculture there was potential for 50,000 jobs to be lost by this carelessness, there was potential and there was an effort to make sure that jobs were created and preserved. Of course, welcome these intentions to provide a good job, but I would like to say in this place that one area has been neglected where there has therefore been no adequate concern and that these procedures have lost a significant number of jobs, of course with these climate change, droughts, etc. which, under further circumstances, will make it worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14232	Thank you, too. No reply to the replica has been reported, but I will conclude that in time you remembered the problem. Very on time. Better ever than never a colleague. ... Yes, thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The next debate is the debate of Đura Popijac's respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14233	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. By trying to find an answer to the question of what these amendments are and which could possibly help to improve the conditions of business for the Croatian economy, increase competitiveness and finally economic recovery, I was not able to do so with my best wishes. The only argument offered by the applicant concerns the concern that our entrepreneurs will not rush abroad to open companies due to a lower amount of core capital and further, it is trying to suggest that this law will prevent unregistered activity from being carried out. When something like this is claimed to explain the reasons for law-making, once again it is confirmed that clearly this government has nothing to do with reality. What this government has done during this nine-month term to the Croatian economy, I am afraid that I am incorrigible and with much more serious economic measures, let alone such cosmetic laws or as already mentioned and accepted by the ruling ones, here are fig leaves. Unfortunately, the consequences of the government's economic policy are obvious: the decline in gross social product -2.1, the decline in industrial production, the decline in consumption, the decline in investment, the drop in exports, the rise in unemployment, the rise in inflation and the dramatic fall in the standards of Croatian citizens. This is unfortunately the result of the government's relationship with Croatian entrepreneurs. Therefore, the claim that this law will prevent the migration of Croatian entrepreneurs is at least ridiculous. Entrepreneurs who are still trying to keep their businesses in Croatia are practically vegetative and keep their last efforts above water, and this is precisely thanks to the deterioration of the entrepreneurial climate that has been happening back months. However, the finding that Croatian entrepreneurs will flee from Croatia is even partially and precisely, but not for the less capital needed to open up businesses, but because of the insufferable relationship of this government to the Croatian economy. Growth in business costs, tax presses, growth in legal uncertainty are key reasons why today in Croatia is harder and I would say more dangerous to be an entrepreneur than ever. And these are the reasons why Croatian entrepreneurs are certainly considering where to find a more pleasant and more acceptable investment business environment today. It's also hard to believe that someone seriously thought when they wrote in the explanation that this law is going to quote: "to prevent the carrying out of unregistered activities" So you're saying that when you vote this law will no longer be a grey economy. It really has nothing to do with reality. Every day we witness the shut-down of crafts, medium and small enterprises, the dramatic increase in the number of unemployed who come precisely and most from the real sector, i.e. medium and small entrepreneurship and extinguished crafts. So how do you think opening up a company for ten kunas of core capital will change anything? Do you really think the craftsmen who close the crafts will rush to open up simple businesses or actually just go into the gray zone? Stop working for sure won't work. The craftsmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are closing their jobs because of the unsustainable pressure of the state, and unfortunately this law cannot be changed. So, instead of the government finally starting to deal with the real problems of the Croatian economy, this kind of cosmetic procedure actually wants to leave an impression of some major concern about the Croatian economy. Unfortunately, because of the results of this policy, our citizens are already paying unbearable prices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14234	Thank you very much. The next speaker is Honored Representative Frano Lucic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14235	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's what I'd also like to say about this law that the truth promises at first sight, but first of all, I think that, as my colleagues have said so far, cosmetic changes to certain laws will not contribute to the development of the economy. Of course I'll be happy if that's the case, but the fact has shown that all those cosmetic changes that have been or will not contribute to the development of the economy but only to the populationization of certain ministries, governments, etc. What I'm saying first of all is I don't want to talk about these cosmetic changes. I think that here today we all need to deal with something else together and talk about how and how to achieve economic growth in each unit of regional, local self-government, both at the end and at the level of the state of Croatia. We are aware that in today’s time here and past the government, and this government is particularly trying to do a lot to record growth in the economy. However, respected colleagues and colleagues, however much the government is making efforts to achieve more positive results and in any way, especially lately, no changes have occurred to us. We are witnesses, and we have talked before about the difficult situation two, three years ago that we have indeed been hit by a global and economic crisis, so the government that is in position today, which was previously in opposition, has denied and said that it is not true, that the inability of the past government and its ministers and who are solely guilty. So whether colleagues and colleagues today can speak the same language, and the prime minister himself yesterday said as we allow individuals to say the individual words addressed to individual ministers, according to the prime minister, and only in such a short period of time as 7, 8 months ago did we forget what the opposition called the past government and what it was all about, or what all the evil words it had sent to the previous government. Don't we have the right to say today when we talk about companies and in general about fostering the economy in Croatia that the government in the second and third quarter recorded GDP growth, that in the 4th quarter it was somewhere on the border. Do we not have the right to say today when we talk about encouraging the economy that today's government is implementing a repressive policy on the economy by introducing various taxes, contributions. Don't we have the right to say that this today's government has put its hand in everyone's pocket and is taking everything it can take. Whether respected colleagues and colleagues can today say that it is a policy to encourage the economy, if today in the season when we have the lowest number of unemployed in recent years we have recorded the growth of unemployment. If the finance minister says his cash register is full and his unemployment rate is increasing. And what can we expect in the third quarter than the fall, and in the fourth, I'm afraid to talk. The truth and I felt on my back this crisis that came from three, four years ago, and that's why I'm saying what I'm feeling right now, I'm not speaking politically, but I'm just afraid how we're going to end the third quarter, how we're going to end the fourth quarter. And you know today is a big problem not paying, it's not a problem that companies don't pay each other. Dear colleagues and colleagues today the problem is no business, no investment, and we are conducting a repressive policy in the economy and how and in what way we will call, call, bring any investors outside if we have such a repressive policy and threaten those citizens who have so far been something and entrepreneurs who have created something in their lives that will pay fat because they have. May all honour be spent on the protection of all those who have stolen, who have not lawfully provided their property. But to conduct such a repressive policy and brag about how we have a full cash register today. Well, of course we do. We raised the VAT, taxed everything that could be taxed, the deficit question of whether we'd keep it at the level we planned, because here yesterday was only about hospitals. Well, here I am, leaving my hospital in Požega-Slavon County. Five million kunas will have a loss this year, and the hospital is, it's the only hospital in Slavonia that's been doing positive business all these years. It's the only hospital in Slavonia that's been doing positive business all these years. So I'm asking a question if it's going to be 4 or 5 billion at the end of the year where will the finance minister settle down just those missing assets? Well, they'll have to calm them down right out of their cash register, and eventually they'll have a deficit. Because there's no funds unless we sell state property and settle what's missing from that property, I just listed one ministry, where are the other ministries? And we boast about keeping the deficit. So how do we keep the deficit? If I didn't talk about all those people in local units, and here we are talking about regional administrations in their county who are looking forward to problems in certain companies because it's not a HDZ man, and at the same time they're not doing anything to help that economy, except that they've never hired any man, they've never paid a man. But at the same time, they know how to do repressive local policy of forced collection of forced inspections one after the other. And of course the entrepreneurs are bitter. We have cases that in companies that do business, which have never been blocked, there are different inspections every day just because these people are HDZ people. And I ask you all together and responsible in the government of the Republic of Croatia are these encouraging measures that will keep the stability of the Croatian economy and are these measures that give us hope that both GDP and total income will be increased? I'm sure, respected friends, as long as this tax policy is repressive behind a door that can't be seen, and it's felt by all those people who provide, who have a large number of employees, as long as they don't stop looking forward to those who want certain companies to fail just because they're otherwise oriented won't be well. And that's why I'm proposing, and I'm sure it's important that this government finally understands if it wants to encourage something, let's encourage it, but this kind of cosmetic measure we're doing is that instead of 20 grand we're starting a company 10 kuna, it doesn't matter at all at this point. Dear colleagues and colleagues at this point are most important how and how to keep all those employees in all the companies to survive, and how we're going to hire new people is some future. And today, the most important thing is to run a policy on how and how to help those companies, especially those who are in trouble to survive and keep their people. This incentive policy today is very important and we need to focus here. And certainly to new measures, but I'm sure we still need a lot of time because it shows the best for the GDP to fall, and certainly everything that will happen in the future if there are no real incentive measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14236	Thank you, too. We have 3 replicas on your display. He is the first of a respected representative of Bora Grubisic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14237	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Lucic with a lot of yours, with a lot of facts in your debate, I agree. Namely, there are numerous examples that confirm what you were saying. Here's one of these is actually a statement that the state budget is well-charged, i.e. the state treasury. So I think that really when you look at the moves, the current moves of this government in which the burden of charging the state budget has been shifted to the burden of citizens and with VAT and with all other gatherings and everyone else then it's very easy to fill the state budget that I would say and my late grandmother Peyusha she would also know how to fill the state budget this way. The announcement of one of the ministers that the contribution to health care will be 12%, and that the health deficit will settle with the real estate tax, i.e. the property of the new year here is another example of how it actually flows from hollow to empty. So let's take, so give 2% of some relief to the employers, but we'll take that 2% back from the citizens. So, such policies are neither satisfied with employers, and even less with the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are arriving this autumn, and especially since the new year, they have had a lot of coercion or as they say in Bosnia by force for miles, and the Turkish harrass was only 10%. I don't know what we are anymore to say and who this government is, which is a sign but 10% and 25% of what VAT is now is really a big difference. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14238	Thank you very much. Replica response, distinguished representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14239	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Grubisic completely agrees with you, and that is exactly what I wanted to point out. So, look, the government is already proposing to take back the burden of citizens from their assets 2%. But it won't be enough, you know. Look, if we're in health care, and Mr. Milinovic said so, we already have significant losses in our hospitals that have done extremely well so far, so it's going to be 5 billion at the end of this year. And look, where will the government take it from? So they'll say, we'll keep the deficit, right, the deficit won't be bigger, and 5 billion in healthcare alone so they'll settle down from selling the property they're planning to sell and the property will just as Croatia's insurance and the Post Office's Bank will go completely into consumption. We must be aware of that. And that's why today we're opposed to selling state property because we know that before 2001, a colleague spoke like you did before? So wait, was 2001 the government of the SDP? So what did you do then? They sold INA shares 25 plus 1 shares, and that's where it started. Here we're going to go with Croata too, with H.P.B., and in three, four years, we're going to sell it in full. But what I'm saying is, this budget gap can't be settled without what I said about selling something if we want to keep the deficit the way we said. Therefore, either the burden of citizens or the sale of state property. So what is this future and what is this message to those young people who want to live in Croatia? We're gonna run out of property, we're not gonna have anything, we're gonna sell out everything. And what are we gonna do after 10 years when we don't have anything else to sell anymore, then how are we even going to work?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14240	Thank you very much. The next replica is the replica of Đurjica Sumrak's respected MPs. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14241	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I listened very carefully to you and what you said, of course, that you should support everything to go towards employment and new jobs. However, today in Croatia there is a fear of whether this government has actually cleaned up in its consciousness of some negativity, and this example is not far from Sisak-Moslavina County. The mayor opened two companies, she hired two directors and two assistants, there's no room for anything but the paper wrote a small though text because, of course, the media didn't exactly make it very public. They asked the gentleman who was the director of this company what he was doing as his job, he said, so on the phone I'm doing it from somewhere, although he hasn't done anything yet but he entered the budget and the county came into the state budget and entered the pockets of all of us Croats, so it's something without cover. And I want to know why the inspections aren't doing their job. And I've always been interested in reading in the paper how the government ordered an investigation into it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14242	Thank you very much. Replicate reply, respected representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14243	I was just in my presentation and talking about this repressive policy, so putting my hands in my pocket from the state level in every citizen's pocket both physically and the person coming from the real sector. And I'm sure such measures can't be an incentive for development. If we want to encourage the economy, and I say we have today at regional, local level exactly those people who are so loud and at the same time have never implemented such a policy to hire to give personal income but at the same time today they are holding back the development of individual companies and they want to destroy individual companies at all costs. Of course we're also witnessing here a colleague of HNS's special colleagues, Richembergh, who was yelling at a heaven-scraper, a heaven-scraper. And what we should be talking about today, given that this kind of raise policy is just VAT without talking about another repressive tax policy, so we really should sing songs. And you see, again, we are neither as violent nor as repressive as our colleague has been in the past term. He's not here today, so I'd like to ask him what we should do and what kind of songs we should be singing here today to the new government, showing new phone numbers, etc., etc. I think the latest, unfortunately, phone number will be in the fourth quarter that we won't even be able to read.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14244	Thank you very much. The third next replica is the replica of the respected representative of Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14245	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Lucic, you mentioned the problem of hospitals. So don't think that the better situation with me about the hospital system is, and it's certainly necessary here to express concern because there's hardly any hospital that has no difficulty in doing business and every day it's getting harder. So we also witnessed in these summer months during the tourism season that some had problems with the lack of medicines and other supplies. Surely this problem is that let's say 2% of the reduction in contributions that she has had a certain vision. She didn't get it, but she caused another problem, caused a problem in the health system. That's not a speech. The second moment and this intention of the measure concerning the recruitment of trainees is also going to be one revolutionary measure did not result in this fact. But there's another problem in health care, and that's the health care workers' problem. These days we are witnessing what happens to nurses so that there will be a situation with nurses and doctors have raised their voice, a union of doctors to also warn about certain problems. So I would like to point out in this place that the problem of health care is indeed great not only in the hospital but in the whole health system, and I think that in that area, attention should be paid and addressed, of course, in time for what you were talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14246	Thank you, too. Replicate reply, respected representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14247	I just wanted my colleague to point out the health problem for the reason I come from Požega-Slavon County and where we have three hospitals. We have a county hospital in the town of Požega, which has done extremely well in the previous system, we have a hospital in Pakrac and the Rehabilitation Hospital in Lipik, which is especially well in Lipik today and also in Pakrac. But simply by reducing 4% of the total income to our hospitals, where it's again from the level of the ministry we'll take so much from you and you have to say so. But I do know the work of a hospital in Požega-Slavon County, which has brought its savings to a minimum. There's no more chance of any savings, and that's the only way I say it again with a repressive policy must be taken. We're putting ourselves in a position that tomorrow we won't have for drugs, and from something that's good we'll do bad. I just want to make that argument and say that it's not good and that that kind of policy, and we're talking about politics and tax today, we're talking about companies that we're saying it's not good because we're going to have to settle it from somewhere. But at the same time, we can't even settle it without increasing the deficit or selling the property we have. From somewhere in this money, we have to create or take or sell from someone or increase the deficit. That's what I'm talking about. It's not a good policy like that where it's said I'm taking you, and now you make up for yourself. There may be savings in some hospitals, and there may not be in some hospitals because those who have worked well so far should be allowed to work well in the future and to develop in the way they have developed so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14248	Thank you very much. Let's discuss it further. Next up is Honorable Representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14249	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister with an associate. So in times when all the trends and indicators that tell us what the situation in the economy in the Republic of Croatia is recording extremely negative figures, the government has sent to Parliament a law that is hard not to support, that we understand each other. And every normal every well-intentioned law that offers some better economic environment, the greater competitiveness of the Croatian economy will support it. Unfortunately, however, there is always this great but. Whether this law will help to change all the negative trends facing the government in the Republic of Croatia. Because look, the Prime Minister accused us yesterday that we didn't want to talk about economic issues. This is the first economic topic discussed by representatives in the Croatian Parliament. As I see it, there is no great desire for a colleague from the Kukuriku Coalition to speak of this law. Why, well, because of all these negative trends. However, Mr. Minister, if you wanted to solve this problem, to solve the problem of rapid opening of a company or the ease of opening a company in the Republic of Croatia you already have tools that you can perfectly apply because these 20,000 is either 20 or 10 or 50 she is to tell dear God anyway. Those who engage in a more significant activity must surely have more resources and will have no problem opening up the company, and young people who are moving into some kind of an activity where there is no need or more significant financial resources need assistance. However, if you want to achieve what you say in the reasoning of the law, then you have an instrument that gives results on the Ministry of Finance, but your ministry does not produce results. It's a personal identification number. Because this is all that is praised by colleagues from the Ministry of Finance that is the consequence of the OIB that has introduced, which has left the former government with a clear goal of doing exactly what is happening. But you know well that you can read it from all the materials that your predecessors participated in meetings around the OIB, that you can solve this quick opening of companies without a problem with the OIB. Practically, the High Commercial Court registering companies all this data, which is the biggest problem for opening companies because entrepreneurs must visit a number of offices, future entrepreneurs, in order to obtain all the necessary documents, can withdraw the High Commercial Court through the OIB. So that's one thing. The second thing, do you really think that 20,000 reasons for entrepreneurs to flee Croatia, and introducing capital gains tax is not a reason. You know what the ratio is that someone needs to pay. It's, you just can't measure it. Is the tax press the result and the legal uncertainty that someone opens a company here or there? If you take three basic reasons to invest somewhere, then one is legal security, the other is tax policy stability and the third is political stability. We don't have these two, two key moments, unfortunately. Why, now I'm going to elaborate on why. Because he's on his way to your ministry right now, and I was saying that he understood me when I was a minister in the government. Therefore, I will not say that this has now created a problem, it is a problem that Croatia is pushing back and forth back in the '90s. So one is bankruptcy, and the other is payment. At the time when in Croatia it happens that if you sue someone for something that is white that they have to pay you and when the trial is over in 15, 20 days then a large number of those so-called. Blocked companies simply delete. But as long as the court disputes last for 5, 6 or 10 years then those who don't pay will always be. And what I'm saying now is there's no political sign, it's the problem of Croatia, no matter what political option is in power. Another problem, bankruptcy. It can't happen that bankruptcy lasts 10, 12 years. Here I will give you an example of this close, large-gorical utility company "Velcom", sent to bankruptcy in 2000, today in 2012, the bankruptcy is not over. Meanwhile, three companies dealing with municipal activity and are perfectly functioning. However, when those who intend to start a company see such a thing, they realize that they are fleeing from entrepreneurship as far away as possible. And that's a fact that we can't run away from, that's a fact that must finally be said. Also, sometimes in Croatia someone will have to talk about how much property has disappeared through bankruptcy by not looking for companies owned by the state. I don't want to get involved in the affairs of the judiciary so I don't get attached to touching that third pillar of power. So these are the problems affecting entrepreneurs and the ones entrepreneurs are still thinking about today. It's no problem opening up a company, people have ideas, but they're troubled by these problems. Two more things that are problematic here in this bill of law. You're saying that these limited-responsibility societies at a time when they're doing good business won't be that anymore than will be a limited-response society. So someone can have 100 million kuna traffic, he doesn't have to increase his core capital. Basic capital can remain 20 kuna. He doesn't have to book that property in the underlying capital, he doesn't have to, he doesn't write it anywhere, not in any law, and these are financial laws, it's not the Company Act. He doesn't have to, he does business normally, he has a credit rating based on his business, but he doesn't have to book all his assets in basic capital. Third thing, at this point, we of the total blocked companies in the Republic of Croatia are 66% of the blocked companies that do not have any employees, and we are now practically giving birth to such companies and events. 62% of the funds blocked are related to companies that have no employees and could have done the same thing with the OIB without any problems. It's a clean administrative procedure. But when we talk about helping the economy, about increasing the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, I would just ask you a question, Mr. Minister, do you think that after some changes to the Value Added Tax Act, some activities will reduce the number of companies or increase the number of companies regardless of your proposal for a reduction in core capital. It will certainly not increase for the simple reason that by introducing some new taxations in the VAT system simply certain companies and these existing companies that are doing practical work have fallen by 30, 40, 50% and the new ones will not be safely opened. Tax press. There is definitely a tax press in Croatia and that is the biggest problem. At this point in Croatia, it simply points to those who are capable and who are committed. They are potential thieves, they are potential criminals, and Croatia cannot extract investment from the budget. It's a consumer economic model. Croatia can extract private capital, both domestic and foreign, but of course by all laws and regulations so that it does not turn out that I protect or push someone. But if you're always putting someone on the cover that he's like this or something, you were listening to the story about the Office of Great Tax Liberates the other day. Well, in Zagreb, there has been 7 years, 7 years for large taxpayers. ... Just a little colleague Fabiančić, you can discuss it, but just with the right indicators, don't throw it aside like this, answer the debate, so let me know. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So that outpost works and you know exactly what it does. 80% of the major taxpayers are in the city of Zagreb. So, Mr. Minister, with all due respect and support for what's proposed here. Unfortunately, however, this law offers a series of holes through which those who do not intend to do this rather than hunt in a dim one will get through. There's a space opening with such legal proposals. And another thing I repeat at times when in Croatia all economic trends are negative and unfortunately, since all the investment from the state budget has been suspended, the construction of schools and everything else just to show the picture that the budget is within the limits of the plot. You have one school being built in Velika Gorica, for 7 months now at the construction site of the 2-man school, and that school could have ended this and the beginning of next year without any problems because they are not such large funds. We want to talk about some of the highways that were agreed on, where performers were introduced, but everything stands. So it's helping the economy, not this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14250	Thank you too, dear colleague. We have a report of a replica on your display. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14251	Dear fellow Shucker, I fully agree with most of what you said in your debate. But one thing I don't agree with. You said you wouldn't touch yourself, you wouldn't interfere with the legal system, you wouldn't interfere with the judiciary. The rule of law, when the judiciary does not function, should interfere, should create conditions for the judiciary to function. What does that mean? We have all claimed here that legal certainty for investors in Croatia is catastrophic. And we all know that. In the trade courts, there's only so much price at the door. It's all well known how it's being tried. I was talking about the example of Međimurje High Construction, 17 years of fighting INGRA. We see that it is very much today, and this same INGRA advocates it. There are certainly various forces involved, various powers in this INGRA. 17 years that you can't pay the workers that money. What are we talking about? If the judiciary doesn't work, everything needs to be done to make the judiciary work. So we need reform. If we do not do so, the Croatian economy will not in itself emerge from the crisis. I'm not going to quote Mr. Prime Minister who often quotes the Bible so I don't mind. So a capital of 20,000 kuna or capital, a core stake of 20,000 kuna or a base stake of 10 kuna won't start the economy, it won't be. It's a self-employment flossula. How's a man gonna get a job? What are we talking about? I said 20,000 kunas don't need, you can do things. That's not an obstacle. We have 1,000 other obstacles which are the problem of the Croatian economy, and one is the judiciary. Mr. Minister, you well know for yourself the litigation lasts forever and the economy can't be moved forward to this painful point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14252	Thank you, too. Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14253	So, my colleague Vuksic, I'm still saying that it's not our place to interfere with the work of the judiciary, but to warn you, that's what we need to do and why I mentioned when I told the judiciary. So for the simple reason that in this vast cutting of the rights and receipts of government employees, where when I said it three, four years ago, it was blasphemy, so that today would be talked about as something that had to be done. Among other things, the judges got one. And I am here entirely on the side of Judge Turudić's statement, that if we want quality work of judges, then we must provide them with material work, and they should also be paid for it, but then seek responsibility because one without the other is not going. And legal certainty is a prerequisite for a lot of this. The economy and the judiciary is something that simply is a finger and a nail, one without another can't. And no matter who coughs that way, the engine dies. ... Forgive me for saying that garbage and it just dies the engine. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And it's just that we have to look together. That is why I, Mr. Minister, and my debate and colleague Vuksic, tried to direct it to how much to link it, to look at all the shortcomings that are at the moment and make sure that you will certainly have the support of the safe HDZ club and probably other clubs in the Croatian Parliament for such proposals. Because I'm saying no one normal or smart at this point is against something that will help the Croatian economy. Just look, all this government did to the Croatian economy instead of an increase of 0.8%, 1.5%, so 0.8% led us to a decline of about 2%... Because statistics can play the game 0.4 plus, minus percent up. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No one's gonna see that. Therefore, what you have done so far has led Croatia to minus. It means you've done the wrong thing. Because you said that based on the measures you will take you will lead to increased economic growth in the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, the opposite happened.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14254	Thank you very much. The next replica is a replica of the respected representative Bora Grubisic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14255	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Shuker, I will look back only on two of your settings, and the first item is that already in Zagreb there is an office, a tax office that deals with so-called ". big taxpayers. Here in the media was really big, so there's a lot of media attention about setting up so-called. First IRS. That's what it's called for big taxpayers, so I'm not clear here you're claiming responsible here for the parliamentary speaker that there is already such an office in Zagreb. Yes, yes, not the Partisan, but the IRS. I would further refer to the bankruptcy you were talking about. In fact, during your government, and during this time of our country, the 20th summer state, the adult Croatian bankruptcy was actually a sale. The bankruptcy managers in 99.9% were the undertakers of the company and sold out what they were for generations, let's say let's go under the quotes of the working people, let's say they gained decades and years. And bankruptcy, it's a very rare example that bankruptcy has brought about the recovery and stabilisation of a company. 99.9% it was just a sale, not to say a robbery of what working people have acquired for generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14256	Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14257	Thank you very much. A colleague of Grubišić, therefore in the organization of the Tax Administration, you have an Exposition for large taxpayers. There are more than 80% of large taxpayers in Zagreb. You also have one, so to speak, I won't talk about the group because it's people, the number of inspectors who specialize in controlling large taxpayers. 'Cause look, INA, HEP or some big company like this can't control any inspector for the simple reason it takes a big, big financial knowledge from more financial spheres. Thus, such a facility exists in Zagreb. And now look, he says only 5% of tax controls have been done in large exposures. You have 600 large taxpayers, and over 200 thousand are controlled. So when in a few thousand controls you have 400 controls in large stations and you put it on 7.8 thousand controls, these numbers I'm talking to you by heart, normally to make it five percent. But when you look at how controlled it is in total, then you'll see that a small percentage of those small and large percentages is controlled. But I'm saying it's important to do something PR. That's the same thing when you charge 55 million out of 50 billion in a month, it's a great success. But your colleagues and colleagues need to know that your daily interest at 50 billion is about 20 million. So that debt increased by 600 million over the last 30 days with interest base, and only 55 million were charged. But I'm saying it's for some other spheres. And as for bankruptcy, I mentioned bankruptcy one, and that's a major utility company called Velcom. Look when this company was sent into bankruptcy in that famous bankruptcy era in 2000, the municipal company was sent into bankruptcy, there was also a water supply and a water supply network and a sewage network and a purifier and concession on gravel. And it's very interesting that no one at the time when the bankruptcy started said that simply the infrastructure that the citizens were doing couldn't be in bankruptcy. And look, today we argue, for 12 years neither the workers got the bankruptcy mass of what belongs to them, nor the town of Velika Gorica with the City of Zagreb can solve the problem of the station, and also now there have been problems around the shopping center which is the whole story and cooked. But that in a simple story, and it was a simple story, that what had communally moved out, and what had left business inside could have been solved without a problem. But I have only cited one example that can serve as an eclectic example that bankruptcy is unfortunately a major problem in Croatia, and I repeat the work and growth of the economy and the relationship of the economy and the judiciary is like a finger and nail. And if we synchronise that, then it'll be a better story. Sobol's colleagues, so don't take sides. In a second, you won't fail.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14258	Thank you very much. One notice. In the decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission, the first item of today's agenda will be voted at 3:00. I'm asking the club representatives to make sure the MPs are here. The following has been registered for discussion by the respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14259	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In fact, tomorrow will be nice in the press or in the press reading that the company so-called. a simple limited-responsibility society can therefore establish any or justifiably any citizen who has 10 kunas and another kuna for a business share. It's a great title for every daily newspaper and for the media. This would somehow lead to giving or giving great opportunities for citizens to establish, establish their own company for a total of 11 kuna. Indeed, when we look at it that way, if we look at it that way simply then it's one of this bill that even bears the E mark, therefore European, actually one would say the populist law. Generally, as once said by masses, it is allowed and allows them to start their own company. There are 23 million companies in the European Union. Of which 22.5 million so-called. Small and medium, the rest are so-called. big companies. When I say small and medium, it's those companies that have up to 100 employees. So there are 22.5 million in Europe. They know colleagues and colleagues who are at Parliament's plenary session in Strasbourg when there was a debate on how to get Europe out of the crisis then said this way if each of these small and medium-sized companies hired only one, one employee would be 22.5 million new jobs in the EU that have about 500 million inhabitants. 22.5 million new employees is a big deal. So since we like to read our legal proposals with the E label, and I wonder why we haven't adopted or implemented the same law before, if Europe already has such a directive and such intentions and this kind of form to say encouraging entrepreneurship and the entrepreneurship climate, how come we didn't remember that every citizen who has 11 kuna can start his own company? What's behind that? There are 60 papers, permits, surveillance, and I don't know what every citizen who wants to start and has 11 kunas has to get and hire a lawyer most often to do it. So, to borrow what finally happens when it comes to that clerk, an official in the county gets final permission to tell him now you've got the green light. Each of those 60s, don't take my word for it any more, somewhere less, officials, or officials when you come to it, and I know it and personally because many of them have complained to me as an advocate, each of these officers looks at it, observes it and thinks it as an enemy, as someone who has to get in the way, and doesn't see it affirmably, doesn't view it with a desire to help him get to his own paper as soon as possible to finally get to work, into business, and to actually contribute to the overall state, well-being, the development of the economy in the Republic in any form. Therefore, when we adopt such a law and no one is against encouraging the entrepreneurial climate in the Republic of Croatia, but we need to see what is behind the hills. They have not yet taken any steps to speed up the procedures so that citizens can get exactly to the establishment of their own company where perhaps, given that we have a lot of people who are innovative, who are creative and who can certainly contribute to their creativity, innovation so that they do well and even in business conditions when we enter God on July 1st into the EU in 2013. But here's an example, for example. in Brod-Posavia County when a man collected all the papers then asked me where to go now to which of those three who work in the county to approve me so-called. minimum technical conditions, to which of the three to go. He's the one who says the hard one is like this, and maybe the third one would do it right away. You see the problems I'd say ordinary nature, and not those problems shouldn't exist. And especially because the administration, which is the number of people in state services in the services of regional and local self-government, is really high. And we could really if we took an affirmative attitude rather than some ghastly attitude towards the outcome of all possible permits, these procedures could be accelerated. The judiciary, that might interest Mr. Minister, see how many people complain about not only eternity to say the trial and the conduct of court proceedings. Well, someone says Dinamo is eternal, but more permanent are the processes that last in our trade courts. And then when they get the final verdict, there's nothing going on. I know private companies that get the verdict that someone owes him that much and so much for the work done but I say there's nothing I can do about it. Can't be charged, this one changed the name of the company, the name of the owner, etc. The problem is in long-term judicial processes but also in some other laws that we will also have to change. Tax policy is also important. Well, you yourself know that many athletes not only from Croatia but from some other countries because of a large tax advance they flee with their residence with their application, so let's say Monte Carlo or Andorra or some other country. Someone here was talking about an example of the Baltic states. When I say Baltic states, then I think clearly about Estonia, Lithuania and Latvia, which are just in that segment of the judicial but also made a big step in tax. And it was once a Malaysian tiger, today it is these countries that are coastal or Baltic European tigers in the growth of GDP in the development of the economy in the standard of their citizens at the employment rate of their citizens. So it's not just that citizens start their own company for here 11 kunas, but a series of accompanying laws and help central states both in legislative regulation, but in one I would say the track but the discipline of all those who decide on all the permits, approvals and others, and there are quite a number. Well, maybe that number could be reduced, not to be 60 or 60, so don't take my word for about 60 to make it a minimum technical condition for someone to open their own company. So for these 11 kunas, there are 60 more papers, paying lawyers and a number of other things that people come across when they want to start their own company, regardless of their good intentions, whether they're more or more, and regardless of their creativity, the innovation that our people show and their knowledge shows when they go abroad when they're going abroad, when they're competing abroad at any competitions of knowledge and our especially young people who could actually achieve great results that there are no such administration and slow justice that are a hindrance to the development of such private entrepreneurship. So it's not the media that's creating an anti-enterprise climate... /The speaker's off.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14260	Time, buddy. My colleague Grubisic, thank you very much. We have a few replicas. First respected representative Ivan Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14261	As independent representatives, we advocate civil and ethical Croatia. When I say civil, then we mean it's democratic, it's legal and it's social. And when we talk about ethics in Croatia, then we think that we are here at a great distance with basic ethical principles. Don't steal, don't lie, act responsibly and don't make mistakes with your failure. It's not a religious speech, it's a civil option that should be arranged for Croatia. There have been a lot of smart and one people here today, and it's about a limited or stock companies economy, but nobody mentions the need in the economy of the need for ethics, not to steal, not to lie, not to do wrong contracts, managerial contracts, etc. All of this falls under the category of ethics. We are poor and on a test of ethics many of us and in this House would not pass a positive regulation. That's what I wanted to say to stress the importance of ethics both in democracy and in the civil state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14262	Thank you. The replica will be answered by the respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14263	Thank you very much, my last name, even though we're not related to eating on your replica. As a Roman Catholic, I agree with you that we should make less mistakes in thought, word, deed, and failure as our religion says. However, besides being Catholic, we are also Croats, and Bruno Busic said well 40 years ago what will happen when Croatia is a free country. So unfortunately, his vision and prophecy where we are and you would agree with me, showed a lot of predatory, intolerance and some other traits as a people and where he said that only the Croats would peel their people Croats would show it only when Croatia had its own state. So, between this truly religious setting and what Bruno Busic said, there are great differences, but unfortunately both are true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14264	Thank you, too. Now you will be replicated by the esteemed Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14265	My colleague Grubisic, very short. Yeah, you're right, tomorrow you'll probably get headlines in many newspapers, you can start a company for 10 kuna, a company for 10 kuna. I think it's maybe 10 and that 750 kuna that needs to be paid means something under 1000 kuna and some will believe, those who aren't... By doing business to really fill out one piece of paper, take it to the notebook... [[You don't understand.]] You said exactly, those 60 papers. [[You don't understand.]] Try to open the bakery. Which is a company, you probably mean a single-phone company or you think it'll just hire people in marketing companies and sell marketing. Therefore, all that has been done with this law, which should be welcomed quite safely, when it makes it easier for someone to open up companies, but without some fast-cutting, without all the great permits they need, those who have opened companies and who have asked for some permits know what it is. And it's an accurate finding, when you come among bureaucrats they do everything to make it impossible for you any business venture, they discourage you already on the first counter. If we don't do it, and I come back again, and if we don't intervene not in court proceedings, but in reforming the judiciary, there's no way this law or any other law will either create an entrepreneurial climate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14266	Replication response, esteemed Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14267	My colleague Vuksic mentioned a quick cut, which always reminds me of the perorec, but Mr Schuker well expressed one fact that 62% of the blocked companies are those that are today called fax companies. I wouldn't like to either, and I believe neither do you, if by this law we were to start again with the age of mass-based fax companies that only have a phone that works when it's the one who reported the company at home, but just so as to simplify the establishment of the company, then with the efficiency of the judiciary, we would achieve that, however, from these companies that will be based on this law to say very cheaply, that we still get some kind of progress from entrepreneurship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14268	And the third replica, the distinguished representative of Jaksa Baloevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14269	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here I have been listening here for months and often mentioning entrepreneurs and economies, and today there have been many words. I was a 21-year-old businessman and my philosophy of business was to know the financial situation of the company every day. It was a small company, a modest business, but I think I've been working so that all entrepreneurs should work. I've never been in a blockade one day, it's not a day I haven't been late to pay my taxes, I don't owe a single kuna to anyone. Here in front of the public, I can say that I owe no kuna to any of the suppliers or the state. I therefore believe, and as I said by Don Ivan, that the most important thing in business is responsibility to the state, to myself and the environment. I would therefore ask the Minister of Justice to keep all the laws that will follow in this direction in order to protect the responsible, committed people, unlike those who need to be put in jail. As far as the law is concerned, I'd agree, today it's already said here that the underlying capital in my opinion would have to be a little bit bigger, but good. Given the high unemployment, it may be good to encourage entrepreneurship through this form. And when I asked that question yesterday, I would go in that direction to establish a prerequisite for the city, the municipalities and the state to create some kind of spatial possibilities, as we say, through this simple formation of the firm, to have an effective effect. I repeat again, I would ask on behalf of many I know, who have done orderly business unlike many who have been the bad guys in this regard, to protect entrepreneurs and not to consider them as criminals, but to be people who work for the good of this country, who in some way feed us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14270	Thank you, too. It was more a debate than a replica, but MP Boro Grubisic will respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14271	Thanks a lot, buddy. I'll say another example similar to yours. A friend of mine who also properly executes his tax and all other obligations is punished by an inspection of 10 thousand kuna fines because at the entrance to his warehouse of construction material he did not place a board, a traffic sign of a speed limit within a 5 km storage area, so 5... So I think who can go faster in the warehouse of construction material I don't know, I don't know if a fork can go faster, but a man had to pay ten thousand kuna fines. [[You don't understand.]] Such rigorous measures, such misunderstanding or here to say that there is a warning so that if within 7 days you don't set a traffic sign of a speed limit at the entrance to the warehouse of 5... You'll get a ticket. [[You don't understand.]] No, almost, cut off, no mercy. So how this entrepreneur, when he's gonna make money, how much he's gonna have to sell bricks, cracks, cements to make $10,000. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14272	Thank you, too. That's what ended the individual debate. We will hear another five-minute debate on behalf of the HDSSB club and respected Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14273	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister. As my colleagues in the HDSSB have said, we will support this law, but given that this is only the first step, the first step that will allow many to start their own company, but the life of the company will in any case not depend on these 10 kunas but will depend on many other conditions on the support of the ministry through government agencies. Here is Prime Minister Milanovic in Germany today, so I hope he will ask the German Prime Minister how Germany has launched the economy by increasing VAT or reducing VAT. I believe they'll get an answer because Germany just cut the VAT. One sure condition for the recovery of the Croatian economy will also be the withdrawal of funds from the European Union. Here we were yesterday called half-world, called ignorants, called crybabys, we were called politicians, etc. Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister of Justice, do you read the laws that the Croatian Government is referring to the Croatian Parliament? This is what I wanted to ask Mr Lek because his signature is here, and it is about the withdrawal of these funds from the European Union, it is about the proposal of statistical regions and the division of two statistical regions that the Croatian Government has directed towards the European Union, which has further affected poverty, further poverty of Slavonia and Baranja. Very quickly here at the meeting of the Parliament and already on the agenda is another proposal of the Investment Encouragement Act, on the improvement of the investment environment with the final draft law You can, but this has nothing to do with the economy. [[/Intruding Stazic: I have only one request from my colleague Vinkovic. Can you at least one...]] I said the HDSSB club supports this law. [[/Intruder Stazic: But allow only one request to refer. To say at least one single sentence about the Company Act.]] And I would ask you not to take my time, and you will understand very well what I am talking about when I read the law, so which Croatian Government sent to the Croatian Parliament. This should in particular be borne in mind by SDP representatives, HNS, that according to that law, the Croatian Council of Reports or the first Deputy Prime Minister Radimir Cacic, Minister of Economy Gordan Maras, Minister of Entrepreneurship and Deputys, and in this law that is in line with the European Union stands, sees God, these regional support maps differ from the three regions of which, for two Central and Eastern and Adriatic Croatia. Where did central Croatia go in what was sent to Europe? This is a law proposed by the Croatian government that we will discuss in a few minutes. What kind of forgeries has been sent to the European Union when it says here in this law that Croatia has three statistical regions, Mr. Justice Minister? What is this? Who's the ignorant now? Who's the politician? Who's the half world? Who doesn't want to withdraw money from the European Union? What is the SDP's representatives? What is it, gentlemen? Representatives of Slavonia? What is this law? A law proposed by the Croatian government a day after those circulations, that Croatia has not administrative regions, but two statistical regions. The same Croatian government proposes three statistical regions in this law – central, eastern or Pannonian and Adriatic Croatia. This is allowed for fraud of all MPs, fraud of all citizens, but also fraud aimed at further poverty of Slavonia and Baranja, as well as Croatia and the entire Croatian economy. So final. The HDSSB club will support this bill. I don't see that there are going to be 300,000 new jobs out of that law, but in any case, you need to reduce the charges that were 20,000 kunas or 25000 kunas on these symbolic ones. But all other measures that are related to helping the economy primarily reduce VAT which will affect job creation, increase consumption but also produce, let's look at Germany. And this I would ask if you read it how many Croatia has statistical regions two or three?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14274	You've exceeded your time for 45 seconds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14275	That's how much you took from me, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14276	I didn't take that much from you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14277	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14278	But I could take your word for it if you didn't stick to the subject. But now you will be replicated by a colleague from the club, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14279	Thank you very much. Namely, it is not a replica but a well-intentioned observation that my colleague Vinkovic, my very good colleague Vinkovic, mentions Slavonia and Baranja. But here he forgot a little bit in the heat of his speech, which is excellent and still ours, starting with Ilock, Vukovar, Bapska, Germans, Apshevac and others. So here's Slavonia, Sreem and Baranja and Strošinci, so it's at the end of the last village.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14280	The replica matches Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14281	Dear counterpart Grubisic, indeed here all together, so regardless of whether we are a position or opposition, we must take measures that will trigger the Croatian economy. These measures must focus on creating new jobs. As Croatia, we must also launch a process of withdrawing funds from the European Union. However, in order to withdraw as much funding from the European Union as possible, no one can call MPs half-world, politicians, ignorants, etc. etc. But I really don't know who is in Croatia today – the Croatian government that talked yesterday about 2 statistical regions or the Croatian government that is proposing today in the Investment Encouragement Act, the improvement of the investment environment of 3 statistical regions, and they are also related to support aimed at the recovery of the Croatian economy. So yesterday, there were only two statistical regions, according to the Prime Minister, the first vice-president of Greece. There was Pannonian and there was Adriatic Croatia, continental. Today there is central Croatia in this law, so there is Varazdin, Zagreb. There is also Adriatic Croatia and there is also eastern Croatia. Let those who deceive Croatian citizens decide now, let them decide in the elections. And today it's visible who's telling the truth, who's a politician, who's ignorant. We are certainly not representatives from Slavonia and Baranja, representatives of the HDSSB. Because all this decision and division of the statistical region is aimed at further poverty of Slavonia and Baranja the European Union funds. [[Invadica Grubišić: I Srijema.]] [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] The one who turns off the microphone, enough.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14282	My friend Vinkovic, thank you very much. We will now hear the closing word of the Minister of Justice of the Honorable Mr Orsat Miljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14283	Mr. Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs. So, I would like first to make a statement on the amendment of the Legislative Committee to us in writing. So we accept it entirely. Secondly, not now entering these parts of the debate concerning the general state of justice and the economy only a few notes. So, very soon there will be some laws in this House that will concern the judiciary and conduct so that we will have the opportunity to discuss these concrete things. As far as this law is concerned, as we have said, it has three segments, this first European harmonisation with the directives was actually not controversial during the debate. Then I'll start at the end. The third segment is actually the introduction of order, what you were talking about. Therefore, it is a matter that according to the current case law of a limited liability company administration, they are not responsible for the non-starting of bankruptcy within a specified law. At this point, what you have asked is that 148 procedures have been put in motion for the application for non-starting of bankruptcy, 45 convictions have been passed, of which 43 are condemned. So that's the current situation. It's not a good situation, and that's why we're going with this intervention, and what's been so far is what we're changing with this. So, with the adoption of this law, there will be this criminal responsibility. It will no longer be doubtful in the caselaw whether it corresponds or does not correspond to the management of a limited liability society. So that's what makes this law. As regards this segment relating to simple limited liability societies, it is only part of the package and I am referring to what was mentioned in the debate. There will also be a Financial Business Act before you, there will be changes to the Banking Act, there will be amendments to the Law on the Procedural Procedure. So a whole series of laws to edit this segment. The ambition of this law is not to settle relations entirely but only to open the possibility of establishing a new simple society with limited responsibility, to encourage people who have an idea to simply go out on the market and try themselves in the entrepreneurial sphere. I would refer here to what is said about the existence of bureaucratic obstacles, the need to speed up the process, which is absolutely correct. However, this law also brings it. If you look at the law, you see that there are other documents that need to be replaced by a statement of founding. So this law works on it. We today have the possibility of establishing a limited liability society within 24 hours, but it does not apply. This law will also encourage the application of this law because we expect exactly in the segment of this society for 10 kuna to apply this method of electronic creation, meaning where possible within 24 hours. So these are all the things that bring this law. As far as immigrant immigration is concerned, he will not in itself prevent it, but EU countries that have not passed such laws have experienced migration. So, the more reason to go with this. As for the impact on registered or unregistered activity, we cannot prevent everything from being affected by repression, but if you allow someone to enter entrepreneurship in a simpler way, it is cheaper to expect that there will be less unregistered activities. It's because obstacles are being reduced and the procedure is getting cheap. So that's what's being passed by this law. This law as I said it goes in a package with a law that will reduce fees and simplify this part that people who enter entrepreneurship are now paying the state, it will be cheaped. It'll be in front of you next week. So that's what makes this law. Here, I wouldn't go any further. I thank everyone for supporting the law. Here, that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14284	Thank you, Minister. We have one replica, a respected representative of Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14285	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Minister, you didn't actually answer my question why do two types of companies with limited responsibility when both in economic terms require a very small amount of capital? Then why don't you just propose a radical solution to society 10 kunas, start fast, work people. Two societies will complicate the system. You're a lawyer, you know a lot better than I do what it's going to look like in a legal sense, and what it's going to look like in an economic sense. So how long will it take him to get from 10 kuna to 20,000 kuna? So if any economic activity makes sense, it's a question of one accounting period. So you've already put in advance an obstacle to force someone to do some transformations in a year. So that's my simple question. You didn't answer me. If this is suggested, then why don't you go for real simplification, not some sort of surface ironing?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14286	Here's the minister who wants to respond to this replica in two minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14287	I'll just take a minute. So the reach of this law and according to which it is directed is primarily towards people who have no experience in entrepreneurship, who are moving towards it. We want to encourage those who have ideas whether they are young people who make some kind of web application or anything, that they can get into it in a simpler way. What should also be indicated is that there is trust between entrepreneurs. Of course, when someone entered this classic d.o.o. I agree with the economic value of capital that changes what you say, but he's done certain advances, he's kind of gotten into business. And it is expected that in legal traffic, they will also treat each other differently. All entrepreneurs, and that's where I'd like to say there's no court, there's no system that can secure payment, which can ensure functioning if there's no money. If you've done business with someone who doesn't know in advance what he has or doesn't have. So with this we encourage market entry, we keep two forms, this form will come through reserves to increase not capital, but it will come, it will equalize with this ordinary classical d.o.o., and we will see what trends will be in practice. Maybe there's really a need to get up at the ordinary d.o.o. The level of core capital, that's what we'll see. But at this point we're going with these two models, we're going to see how it's going to develop. In any case, he will not harm one another and there will be no negative effects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14288	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate on the text of the law. And we'll vote when the conditions are met. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Commercial Companies, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 139, the debate is closed. The proposer's representative accepted the amendments submitted by the Legislative Committee. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 80 votes for and 49 abstentions have been passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14291	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The proposed amending and supplementing the Taxation Act, which will be valid until 1.7.2013, shall be harmonised with respect to Council Directive 2008/118/EC in part of the legal provision for the control of the movement of excise products by means of an electronic excise document, replacing the currently applicable paper accompanying the excise document. The establishment of a computer system to control the movement of excise products would allow the monitoring and control of the flow of excise products which have delayed the charge of excise duty in real time. This would simplify administrative procedures and speed up the flow of goods, which would ultimately affect the effective work of supervisory authorities and increase budgetary revenues. The interventions proposed are only the most necessary in order to allow the rapid development of the system and control of the movement of excise products through an electronic excise document which would be in full application from 1 March 2013. This amendment is a further step in the process of integration of the customs administration with EU information systems, which will contribute to better overall preparation of the customs administration for compliance with all requirements put before Member States with the objective of functioning in the single customs area and the EU common market. I only note that in the fourth quarter, we will propose a new tax code that would take effect from 1.7.2013. So this old man would cease to apply, in which we will carry out a full harmonisation of excise duties with the EU directive, which is our obligation to join the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14292	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14293	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister with Assistant. Thus, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its 17th session held on 18 September 2012 the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on excise duties with the Final Proposal for the Law as a property of the parent body. Therefore, the debate on the committee pointed out that this law should have defined how long the movement of excise products in the excise duty suspension system will be allowed by the basis of a paper accompanying excise document. In fact, there is no need for electronic excise documents and paper accompanying excise documents to be used simultaneously in domestic transport, of course it is part of the debate. After the debate was held, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided to unanimously propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of laws on amendments to the Law on excise duties together with the next amendment. Article 1 of the final proposal for a law amending Article 7 of the applicable law provides that the new paragraph 5 is to be amended and read, with the exception of the provision of paragraph 4 of this Article, the movement in the system of suspension of excise duty referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be allowed on the basis of the paper accompanying excise document. The proposed amendment makes it more clear that the movement of excise products in the suspension system of excise duty is also permitted by an exceptional basis for a paper accompanying excise document. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14294	I thank the honourable representative Gjurkovic for the chairman of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs first. So I call upon the esteemed representative Martin Dalic to state the positions of the HDZ club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14295	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Deputy Minister. Here, the proposed amendments to the Excise Law represent harmonisation with European directives, and we do not believe that this is necessary for the coordination itself to be discussed in particular extensively. It's a process to be completed. Of course, as my colleague Gjurkovic pointed out, there was a discussion board yesterday, and I was actually talking about why it is necessary to keep a paper document in domestic transport, pointing out exactly how a small provision could make it very easy to administratively complicated some process, because now there will be electronics but domestic traffic will be accompanied by excise goods and this paper paper still does not give up, perhaps, that the process might not be too simple, but I believe that these representatives of the Government will look back on it. However, when we talk about excise duties and when we have excise duties on the agenda, then it is not possible not to mention it and do not refer to any essential issues that can be read out of the excise and excise income movements. So the essential issue is precisely the movement of economic activity, the movement of consumption and the final movement of the standard of living that can be read from the movement of precisely excise income. In fact, although it is very often said in public by various state officials that the budget is being filled very well, revenues from all kinds of excise duties are lower than last year. as much as during the tourist season in the 7th and 8th month, excise tax revenues are lower than last year. This is particularly clear on the trend in excise duties on oil derivatives which are less than 1.5%. It is clear and logical that there is a link between the quantity of oil derivatives sold, incomes that are thus realised and consumption, or economic activity. This is precisely what confirms that a real decline in consumption, a real decline in production continues during the summer months. We know today as a statistical fact that during the first two quarters, that is, during the first half of the year, there was a decline in economic activity. It is announced and encouraged that better times are coming, but what data show also shows is that there is a high probability that even during the third quarter for the first time since 2009, economic activity will fall, following a quarter where tourism and other activities should bring about something better. I don't want to, and I don't intend to be a bad prophet here, but in a similar way, it also suggests the movement of trade to a little bit. In the 7th month, retail trade was less than in June, and that is when seasonal differences are taken into account in these two months. So what we know today about our reality, what such individual indicators tell us, including one that points to the trend in excise incomes is that the third quarter could bring down the economy. This situation, however, stemmed from economic policy measures, stemmed from an increase in the tax press, the introduction of new taxes, an increase in electricity prices, gas, the announcement of further price increases such as those of heating prices, as well as the announcement of the introduction of new taxes. It's too much for a country to overcome a crisis where consumption and production should be encouraged. On the other hand, the situation in Europe is difficult, but a little more careful analysis of economic activity shows that the situation in Europe is not the main cause of what is happening today. During the first half of the year, net exports contributed positively to the growth rate. In other words, if there were no net exports during the first half of the year, the decline in economic activity would have been even greater, further confirming that our current economic situation, the drop in living standards, was due to the way economic policy was conducted. Economic policy has pushed the country into a much deeper recession and depression than the circumstances in Europe would put forward that are not simple and light. We accept it, we recognize it, we understand it. We warned of such a possibility, she argued, but the government was convinced and she seems to still be convinced of the correctness of her path. However, the figures depicting economic trends are inexorable. That's why this state of affairs that economic policy has caused requires its reaction as well. It also requires a reaction that would remove some of these negative trends, and at least according to state officials, there is a possibility for such a reaction of space because state officials are constantly thanking and stressing excellent budget filling. Despite the drop in excise income, things on other taxes are going well. The increase in VAT rates of 2% as expected gives temporary good results. And if the situation in the budget is as good as the state officials are saying, wouldn't it be logical to think about the possibilities for facilitating and reducing the cost of production, the cost of business, the cost of life and ultimately the relief of living standards, because perhaps such encouragement would also ensure the continuity of the budgeting. In fact, if the economy continues to fall, the current budgetary situation will only be a temporary episode. And finally, why does this question even make sense to put into discussion the excise tax law. It is simply because, in the case of excise duties, the right to determine tax rates is transferred to the Government. These are the only taxes the government determines by its own decision. The reason is in the fact that the Government wanted to allow it to react quickly, without delay and in time to developments in the economy, to environmental developments. Previous governments used this possibility last year when excise duties on oil derivatives were reduced and yet the planned revenues were collected. Well, I guess even now that the situation in the budget is so great, when tax discipline is impeccable, there is at least little room for encouragement and entrepreneurs and citizens to spend more, to invest more courageously in different projects and in different investments because it will only end the trends that are being seen, trends that seem to carry negative trends to the third quarter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14296	Thank you, too. I now call upon the honourable representative Zlatko Tušak to present the position of Croatian Labourist-Stranka Work.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14297	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Looking at the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Taxation Act, with the final draft law, proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia is a harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union. The proposed changes should, as a rule, not create major problems in their application but should allow better and better quality monitoring and greater monitoring of the movement of excise products. The proposed amendments introduce an obligation from 1 March of the following year to exchange electronic data for the movement of excise products in the system of suspension of excise duty on our country's territory. The deadline before Croatia's entry into the European Union will ensure electronic exchange of data, monitoring and movement of excise products and adaptation of the Customs Office for New Conditions. Better preconditions will be created for the development of the customs information systems necessary for Croatia's entry into the European Union's information system. It will also allow for a better preparation of the Customs Administration for compliance with all the requirements to be made before the members of the European Union with a view to the single customs territory and the common market of the European Union. Excise duties are one type of tax and the introduction of its information tracking will be easier to control and prevent the avoidance of excise duties of certain goods and prevent illegal wealth on this basis. Among other things, the law also gave authority to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to intervene with its regulation at the level of excise duty. In this case it is tobacco products, cigarettes, cigarillos, finely cut and other tobacco for smoking. The Government of the Republic of Croatia also has such authority as to the level of all other excise duties. It is explained that this simplifies the process of changing the level of excise duties for its further harmonisation with the acquis of the European Union. I wonder if Croatia's entry into the European Union will change the Excise Law and abolish this power to the Government of the Republic of Croatia because there will be no more reason to comply with the legal acquis of the European Union. The amendments to excise duties, and this Parliament should be discussed in any case, and not let this government decide on its own. On the excise duty law, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has the power to change the height of all excise duties by its regulation, given how this government has so far treated citizens and all tax burdens have been transferred to their backs, I am convinced that excise duties will only be higher, not less. This government has burdened citizens so far and raised VAT to 25%, electricity prices to 20%, gas by 22%, water by 20%. It allowed gas distributors that although the user does not have gas consumption to receive an account of 20.60 kuna and I wonder if it is a fog account because it certainly is not for spent gas in concrete cases. HEP Heat without any shame requires an increase in heating prices by 37%. No one wonders if citizens can pay special pensioners with a pension of 2,000 kuna or those who have lost their jobs and income, and ended up on the labour market, those with a minimum wage or those without pay. These burdens towards citizens entering Croatia into the European Union of excise duties must be imposed on electricity and on heating. They will be at least 0.5 euros per megawatt hour for business users and 1 euro per megawatt hour for citizens. The minimum natural gas excise duty in the European Union for industrial consumption is 0.3 euros per giga-joule, while there is an exception for agriculture and they can be less. For the heating of business users, the minimum cost is 0.15 euros per giga juju, while for the public it is 0.3 euros per giga juju. For the time being, there is a zero excise duty rate for gas and electricity, and it must only be introduced by entering Croatia into the European Union. Its height will be determined by a regulation without asking the Parliament or citizens whether they can pay for the total and higher cost of life. For example, when it comes to excise duty, I will take the neighbouring Slovenia, which at the same cost for electricity, for business users and citizens has 3.05 euros per giga juju. On such an example, we can only guess what will be the limit of our government when it determines the level of excise duty. We see the government can't wait to drop the fuel price to raise the excise duty and take the citizens while there's still something to take. That is why Croatian Labourists - the party of work express their concern because if this government continues to practice through excise duties it will take as much money as it lacks, not asking what is the limit of citizens' endurance without protecting those most vulnerable and burdening those who have and who do not affect this crisis and the accumulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14298	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HNS club, the respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14299	Dear Vice President, Minister, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, this law is another harmonisation with the European Union which is essentially a legal basis for the introduction of electronic monitoring and control of the movement of excise products moving in the system of suspension of excise duty. A lot of this has already been said in the introduction, and on behalf of the HNS Club, which will support this law I would just like to highlight, i.e. to point out what excise duties they are and what this is about and what is, in essence, the importance of this introduction of electronic monitoring for the Republic of Croatia, for the budget, and there has been a lot of talk about the burdens of citizens. So in the first six months of this year, excise duties on energy and electricity amounted to two and a half billion kuna, excise revenues. Excise on alcohol and alcoholic beverages 64 million kuna. Excise on beer 251 million kuna. The excise duty on tobacco products is a billion and 652 million kuna. Thus, excise duties amounted to some, excise revenues of about 4 and a half billion kuna with all other taxes, special income taxes were 4.9 billion kuna, and at the level of the year budget estimates that there would be 11 billion and 493 million kuna. Therefore, this law is absolutely clear, we must look into this adjustment of entry into the European Union we heard the introduction that in the last quarter comes a new law that will be applicable from 1.7 next year after Croatia's entry into the European Union, and the importance of electronic monitoring given the amounts I have read now, I clearly believe that it is more than important to support this law and to organise and manage this part of the excise duty and to make it easier for the IRS to monitor all this together. There's been a debate about the downturn in economic activity, so I don't want a lot of data. This is already enough with excise duties except for one key piece of information. Contributions in the first six months, payments for economic contributions in the first six months of this year, recorded an annual growth of 1.4%. Given that there has been a reduction in the health insurance rate from 15% to 13%, it is clear that not all figures on the drop in certain incomes are so clear and exclusive but that there is growth in contributions that clearly demonstrates that the economy is functioning, especially taking care of workers because they are not allowed to skip the payment of contributions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14300	Thank you, too. Now we'll hear the SDP Club's views and the distinguished representative Nadica Jelas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14301	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Deputy Minister with an associate. I would like to remind you that the latest amendments and additions to the Excise Taxation Act in this section, which determines the movement of excise products in the suspension system, were also made in 2009. At that time, the law complies with Directive No. 12. The Council of '92, and in the meantime this directive has been replaced by a new directive, so that number 118 of 2008 and today's amendments to the Excise Law are actually in line with that new directive. The essence of these amendments and additions is the introduction of electronic monitoring and control of the movement of excise products in the system of suspension of excise duty, i.e. in the system in which the excise duty is delayed. What does that mean exactly? This means that since 1 March 2013, Croatia will establish a national system for the control of the movement of excise products in the suspension system of excise duty, and the basis of this system will be an electronic excise document replacing the current paper accompanying the excise document. In doing so, I would like to stress that the paper accompanying the excise document will remain in office for one more time, so during this transitional period, for the movement of excise goods on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. When a free user of excise products participates in it, and we know that the freed user of excise products is a legal or natural person who has obtained the authorisation of a competent customs office so that he can purchase excise products in the course of his activity, and we know that they are alcohol and alcoholic beverages, tobacco products, energy and electricity, so that he can purchase them without paying the excise duty. In that established national system, data on the movement of excise products in the Republic of Croatia will be exchanged electronically and in real time. And this means that at the same time it will be visible on the computers when the excise product is sent, for example, from one excise warehouse to another or from a excise warehouse to an export. Of course, electronic monitoring of excise products will significantly simplify administrative procedures and, of course, speed up the movement of excise goods, while monitoring the movement of these goods will be simpler and more effective. Therefore, supervisory authorities, above all, will be more efficient in their work, and this should ultimately contribute to better filling the state register. Speaking of supervisory bodies, I'll just say it on the way, because my predecessors didn't point out that this law is also in line with the provisions of the Financial Police Act. You know, since spring of this year, there has been no financial police as a supervisory body in Croatia. It was also to be deleted from the Taxation Act as the one authorised by the Customs Administration to monitor the production and movement of excise products. I would also like to stress that the proposed addition of this law gives authority to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and this was said by its regulation to change the level of excise duty on tobacco products, therefore for cigarettes, cigarillos, finely cut and other tobacco for smoking, which should contribute to the faster response of the Government in the field of excise duties. Therefore, simplifying the process of changing the level of excise duties in their alignment with the EU acquis. And to conclude, the proposed amendments and additions to this law will result in a better preparation of the Customs Administration for the application of the European system of control of the movement of excise products, namely excise movement control system, before we become the only formal member of the EU, but also in respect of all other requirements put forward before Member States in the conditions of operation in the single customs area and the EU common market. This is why the SDP club supports this legislative proposal, and this support has also been confirmed by the fact that the implementation of the SDP is specific for the implementation and application of the excise duty control system in 2012 in the state budget and the necessary funds amounting to around 2 million kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14302	I'd like to thank the distinguished representative, Jelish. We will also hear the position of the HDSSB club, so I invite respected Zoran Vinkovic to take the floor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14303	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. At the very beginning, we should be open, clear and loud club of the HDSB not for this compliance with the EU but solely for the reasons set out in this Article 5th amendment and addition of the Excise Taxation Act where the Government of the Republic of Croatia can, by means of a regulation, change the level of excise duty prescribed by this Article, not support this law. Therefore, not for reasons of convergence and compliance with the European judicial acquis, but solely for the reason that this authority is given to the Government that the regulation will not support this law by changing the rates of excise duty of the HDSSB club. It is evident from this argument, regardless of what is harmful to health, that this regulation and this law will follow the adoption of this law in the Croatian Parliament because I have no doubt that representatives of the ruling majority in the Croatian Parliament will vote this law as they did yesterday, so they have no chance to vote and do not discuss two statistical regions, although in the laws that come before them, and I remember a former President of the Parliament who has claimed that many MPs sometimes disagree with their own opinion and raise their hand for what they disagree, just before them the bench comes a very fast law that states that Croatia is divided into three statistical regions. So, not to administrative regions, but to statistical regions. And if, therefore, we want to get close to the EU to all these laws, then the Croatian government is asked what is the VAT level? Is it 25% in EU countries or is it significantly lower? If we are already approaching most of the laws of the EU, the rights for which we do not approach the VAT law and other tax laws, for example. The law on the financing of local self-government, where the government itself mutilates with its mini tax reform, destroys almost all local self-government units because all local self-government units this year have a lack of income in their urban budgets. Regardless of their income tax hikes 1.5%, regardless of what continues to increase the number of unemployed and regardless of how the regional self-government received 0.5% of the income tax, however, this 2% lacks all hospitals, all fire departments, all schools. So you have, among other things, in Slavonia, that children who have a gym, who are city gym directors must exclude the hot water necessary for showering after physical and health culture because these schools do not have those funds that this government and this ministry have, above all, taken out of the budget of these primary and secondary schools, do not even have for hot water, not to talk about the purchase of computers etc. Food prices definitely go up. The Ministry of Agriculture and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has no measure to mitigate the consequences of a major natural disaster in Slavonia and Baranja. Measures related to the import or export of agricultural products will lead to the fact that instead of one bag as an example here, it is likely to bring a tractor trailer for all agricultural products that the Croatian government will allow to import to Croatia, allow for an increase in food prices, allow for an increase in the prices of the entire standard of living and thus further impoverish the citizens. Given that at this point, I think about those 850 thousand pensioners who have a pension that can't survive from month to month, I think about those 300 thousand unemployed, but I also think about those 200 thousand workers who don't pay more than 6 months, and I also think about those workers who are at a minimum on that non-taxable part of 2 thousand 400 kuna, and I also think about their families, I mean all these measures that the government has taken to "increase" the standard of life in Croatia, but these measures have led to a fall in standards, a fall in economic activity, a fall in social product, led to Croatia not to stagnating, not to expect an increase in gross national product, an increase in economic activity in Croatia going down. So in this system when people have nothing to eat, have nothing to drink, have nothing to wear, can't buy children even the basics necessary for a primary school in such difficult and complex situations this regulation will have to do with the effect of redeploying here Minister Linic as to fill the state budget based on only one article that will go on a drastically increasing price of tobacco products. So we will take away food, food, drink, clothing, books and what most Croatian citizens don't advocate smoking, most citizens still have some chance to escape from this harsh reality, I don't mean decriminalizing light or heavy drugs and opiates. So, instead of the Ministry of Finance realizing that it is a European gain and decentralisation that this Croatian government finally begins to fulfill the promises of Plan 21 that clearly no longer exists, and in this plan I will not quote which page stands as one of the basic programming principles of decentralisation. But what has been done with this decentralisation is also known by the representatives of the ministry and the deputy minister and the minister himself has done a new and complete centralisation of Croatia. So the ratio that we had that was also unsustainable for local self-government units was unsustainable for most of Croatia that 92% of the funds ended in the state budget in the state budget was now increased to 97%, and 3% get local self-government units including the city of Zagreb, which according to Greece, Milanović, Cacic's statement yesterday cannot be a statistical region but here in the law can because the city of Zagreb is connected with Varazdin, does not work NUC 1, 2 or 3, does not work for the number of 800 thousand inhabitants but because it connects them to the average developed in Croatia and only once is the rich region of Slavonia and Baranja in which it has not been able to reduce it along with Srijem to reduce that percentage 70% to 64%. So people in Slavonia and Baranja today say we are richer than those in Dalmatia, richer than those in Rijeka, Istria, richer even though we have not developed so much tourism, although continental tourism is there in the crops, at first and the great chance of Slavonia and Baranja, as well as the entire continent of Croatia in the creation of new jobs. It is difficult to explain to people that Slavonci, Baranci, Srijemci, Croats and Croats live in that part of Croatia thanks to the measures of the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as well as these excise duties, live better than in Istria, Poreč, Pula, Pazin, Rijeka, Dubrovnik. So by comparing the budgets of the local self-government units, you will see that only from parking fees the City of Dubrovnik has the amount of the budget of the City of Đakov, not because Vinkovic is mayor but because this government is similar to that of the past did not realize that leaving Croatia out of a difficult economic situation can only enable decentralisation, not centralisation of the state and sharing funds from the budget by political similarity. And nothing has changed, SDP agents, nothing. There is still money from the state budget, though sometimes with forged documents, and that is Josip Vinkovic as we read in one week, so I would ask a journalist or journalist to first correct himself to be in charge of overtime on the basis of forged documents, without a decision from the city council. But I understand, even I can understand it because the City of Nova Gradiška is the same as the City of Đakovo, as Osijek and Beli Manastir and Vukovar have a lack of funds in urban budgets, in municipal budgets thanks to the measures of the Croatian Government. So I'll end up with one message to the Croats and the Croats. Soon at the kiosks, you will buy more expensive cigarettes in the shops and what you have smoked is I believe that the last thing you have smoked and this is a measure that will certainly contribute to the development of health, not that health development strategy that we have shown on either one or ten papers, but it will be influenced by the price of cigarettes, cigarettes, cut tobacco, and I don't know what. I will not even talk about alcohol because I believe that we will get to a kilo of bread, a kilo of meat, a kilo of all that is necessary for a healthy life and what it says in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia that every citizen of the Republic of Croatia has the right to live a worthy man. Gentlemen, today most Croats in Croatia, regardless of sex, religiousity, nationality, as citizens of Croatia, do not live a man of dignity, among other things thanks to the measures of the Croatian government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14304	Thank you, too. Three MPs express their desire to replicate. First up from your club, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14305	Thank you very much. Comrade Vinkovic, you have well noticed that people in a state of despair, people in a state of irrevocableness, people who are truly caught by poverty that is consecrated or scratched on the head or how you say smoke any easy drugs, grasses, or cigarettes. So most of the time it's about that. And now in connection with this subject, excise duties will clearly be increased by this law as well as prices of precisely those. When they are legalized, then the ruling coalition and easy drugs will probably impose excise duties on the state budget as much as possible. Maybe that's the point, legalizing easy drugs. But I wanted to tell you that he's not gonna get it all together. In fact, the burden of Slavonia, Srijem, and Baranja will not be collected by some meat price projections. And do you know why my colleague Vinkovic, because already people are looking for the customers of the cattle and even those of the breeding herds, so the breeding base of the livestock is not going to have any food or breeding herds, let alone the herds, and there will be a sale of the livestock fund, above all, Slavonia and Baranja, where most of the livestock stock is, so the price of meat will not be so high, unlike anything else, and the price of tobacco that we are talking about today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14306	Replication response, respected Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14307	Thank you, dear colleague Grubisic. I see exactly the opposite because among other things a law has been passed by which the producers who deal with livestock are therefore even for their own purposes, it is said in Slavonia that they cannot be slaughtered, that someone would not be offended and that animal protection companies would not raise their voice, but it is a folk saying. So I can't even do it for my own needs, not that it would be meat that, in this case, thanks to the measures of the Ministry of Agriculture, and we talked about it, even giving an amendment that didn't dry anyone's hand in the Croatian government where nearly a billion and a half kuna was reduced for Croatian agriculture, especially for Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, but also for other agriculture in Croatia, so the amount of a billion and a half kuna has been reduced. And we've witnessed even after a series of peasant protests instead of getting paid all the incentives, all the funds that go towards the development of agriculture to farmers were sent to the intervention police. So I doubt that meat will come cheap, those sovereign Croatian markets that will bring in meat frozen from New Zealand, Romania or I don't know where it will come from, and that again someone would not be offended, we are said to be selling balls under the kidneys, selling it in butcher's shops, shopping malls at a much more expensive price. Well, that's not gonna be worth the saying that a kilo of brains is two stamps.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14308	Another replica, the Đurjica Sumrak's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14309	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Vinkovic, I've been listening very carefully to your exposure. At one point you asked yourself why Varazdin and Zagreb would enter with Slavonia and Osijek in the same. So I'll tell you why? Zagreb and Varazdin no longer binds the thin red thread, but binds the thick red thread. Because here you see him in Varazdin in power for years of HNS and their mayor, we see how the public-private partnership goes. Companies fail, but some models leave daughters' companies behind. It's characteristic of them. And for Mr. Cacic, it is characteristic to set up daughters' companies and destroy and not pay taxes. And in Zagreb, you see I am a citizen of the city of Zagreb, Holding today is in the power of SDP and HNS. They don't get away with anything, and there's no one to get them out of it. They're neatly in their debt billions, raising all the prices. The citizens of Zagreb pay the highest tax. Well you see there is this thick red thread that binds the city of Zagreb and Varazdin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14310	Reply to the replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14311	I really don't care what, what is the connection between Zagreb and Varazdin but the story of statistical regions is also the concern for the citizens of Zagreb and Varazdin. Because what we heard yesterday from both the Prime Minister and the First Vice President is not responding to the truth. And it's not just an example of Bratislava in statistical regions. There's a Burgenland with 326 000 inhabitants. There are some regions that have more than 800,000 and even less than 100,000. Therefore, those NUC1, NUC2 and NUC3 projects are only a recommendation from the European Union. And what to say when this same government proposes to the same representatives and MPs a law that states that Croatia is divided into three statistical regions. And publicly, you have to ask yourself, who is the politician here, who is the ignorant, and not to mention everything that was said yesterday, not to mention half the world. This, this law that's tied up means drastic price hikes and about 37% similar to what shouldn't be a hero so in the city council or as mayor raise your hand. Only a fool can raise his hand for an increase of 37%. Croatian citizens must know that it is not true that HEP pays, charges from citizens 2 kunas, and buys 5 each. It's a complete lie, not to tell a lie. So, all this work is about getting out of citizens' pockets and the last kuna, filling out the budget and the rehabilitated companies that are in the dubiosis, for which loans are given as the last loan we'll give. Now again, we see that Croatia's electricity is back in the deep, and at the same time we pay for the export of electricity, or storage because we don't have the ability to store almost as much as it is in those top loads because the network can't accept it. That's the end word. [[Intruder Stazic: Thank you.]] We pay total to Hungary, Austria, Slovenia, such as the total consumption of all households per year in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14312	Comrade Vinkovic, thank you very much. I'm going to ask you now that in the future, I don't have to warn you every time that time goes too far. But I have to do it every time, so be as kind as all the other MPs to stick to the Rules of Procedure. Well, thank you so much for understanding. And now we will hear the replica of the esteemed Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14313	I thank you, Mr Vice President, and thank you, too, for giving me the opportunity to talk a little bit about agriculture, about agriculture in which everyone swears it is a strategic branch, that it is immeasurably important and that the works of course do not confirm it. Of course, in that part, you spoke of the production of food that is unquestionably important, important, and necessary. It's absolutely unnecessary to repeat. But we are witnessing that food production is dropping, milk production is down 20%, over 20%. Farms are shut down daily, farms are shut down daily, of course, according to this and calves for this, etc. Meat production is questionable. And consequently, food prices are rising, and under these circumstances, the price of gas energy increases, so you know what that leads to. And now let me explain to my farmer, the farmer, the cattleman that he's doing well, that he's doing well to try to present that he's doing well. Well, they are, the village is in such a difficult situation, and the village is in a situation and in circumstances of simply disappearing. And that's what you need to say in this place. And in that sense, don't say empty words, but we're going to do this to the village now, we're doing this, we're doing it that way. So you have not done what is agreed and what is a covenant. Here's what you need to say. Here's another 20 seconds for Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14314	There is no 20 seconds for Vinkovic, for Vinkovic there is a full minute. Here's a colleague of Vinkovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14315	I would agree with everything you just said, but the situation in Croatian agriculture was not great during those 8 years, no matter who the minister was. And I can agree, and that's why we just had the amendment here so that Croatian agriculture can't be stripped of the billions and a half of kuna. The state of agricultural production is now alarming. In a year or two, we won't have a stock fund anymore. We'll have imports of that powdered milk. It used to be Truman's powdered eggs, etc. And I'm afraid of it. I'm afraid of the situation in agriculture. However, the Croatian Parliament, all MPs must bear that in mind when they adopt the budget and cannot raise their hand to cut those revenues from a billion-and-a-half kuna in Croatian agriculture. I'll remind you that very quickly goes this new bill's proposal into procedure. It is a law that will further destroy all family farms. We'll be back. It wasn't that bad once. But it was social. The new Agriculture Act goes hand in hand to large, not cattlemen, not warlords, goes to great powers that may not even be owners of Croatia. This is, on the other hand, another problem you have is that in the drawers of the ministry, which is also a habit taken over and from your ministry there are tenders for the lease of agricultural land, the land cannot be solved, the cadastral particles are not harmonised, the garland is not harmonised, etc. etc. And instead of going to the European Union, we're obviously going to Suleyman the Great.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14316	Thank you. That's what ended the club debate. We're moving on to an individual debate. But before that, one notice. The meeting of the Croatian Committee outside Croatia will be held today at 1400 hours instead of tomorrow as scheduled. We're moving on to an individual debate. First in line is the esteemed Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14317	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister of Finance, Director of the Customs Administration. So there's another one in front of us, so to speak technical law, but technical law when we look at what's changing in it. However, when we talk about this law and when we talk about this topic in general, it opens up a lot of things that are unfortunately happening in Croatia and what should be talked about and, as you see again and in this agenda point, only the opposition MPs are discussing, the rulingly not interested in the problem of the economy so that I do not serve what the Prime Minister said yesterday. So, when we talk about excise duties, we can't forget that it's about 8.5% of the state budget's revenues. And when we talk about excise duties, then we also see that in the first 8 months, excise income is less by some 1.5% than it was last year at the same time, and perhaps more clearly depicts all the poor macroeconomic indicators in Croatia than the budget when we look at it as a whole. However, when we look at both the budget and charge the budget as a whole, so when we take the value added tax rate up by 8.7% and we have inflation somewhere near 4%, then VAT revenues should be far, far higher than in the first 8 months. And this clearly tells us that the economic policy led by this government in the first eight months has unfortunately been missed, and the charge of budgets and praises on account of it has been brought down on the back of Croatian citizens. Because the economy definitely doesn't have to pay anymore because the situation is what it is, but the citizens pay a 2-percent point or an 8.7% higher VAT, pay such high excise fees, and I can't help but remember that picture when my colleague Linic in the moments when someone else was in power yelled, "The irresponsible government doesn't do anything, the fuel prices are growing what they don't do." Look, we're not yelling now or the irresponsible government or anyone is doing anything but just people came to what they just don't want to admit. And I would now ask a question here if you've already raised the price of electricity 20%, if you've raised the price of gas 30% and if the price of gasoline and diesel is as high as it is from that base comes a large amount of VAT into the state budget so couldn't you have that part of the cake because simply Croatian citizens have to spend electricity, have to spend gas, have to drive, pay public transport, go to the store and buy those daily supplies, so don't you convert that part of the VAT to cut the excise duty as you used to make the price of fuel cheaper? No, you didn't do that. It's easy to talk behind a plank, but you can see how it actually works now. And this property tax announcement should clearly tell Croatian citizens that someone in their pocket wants to take an extra 4.5 billion kuna. That's true. Say it's going to be paid by value, not by square, so no one's against it. I don't think any of my fellow MPs are, but we need to tell the real truth that Croatian citizens will be taken from that base new 4.5 billion kunas out of their pockets and now the question is whether these 240 thousand employees in state and public services whether this new army found at the Employment Service has paid for it and whether what they've bloody acquired in the past decades will be seized. So that's what to talk about when it comes to taxes, especially when it comes to the highest tax rate. This is the best, best and biggest tax since the smoker won't buy a piece of bread, he'll buy cigarettes. You have to drive to work, so you have to spend gas, and the proceeds from the excise duty and the proceeds from the excise duty of cigarettes are somewhere around 8.8.5 billion kuna in the state budget. It's facts you don't need to run from. And when these excise duties tell you that Croatian citizens have spent less and Croatian businesses 1.5% of what excise fees are paid to it clearly says that we have a catastrophic economic picture, a state in a country that everyone sees except those who are in power. And now I should, Mr. Darling, we've won the election, and you've been saying all along you won't be coming back. You said you had solutions, that's why you won the election. So, please, nice. But you have the right to answer and say, and let me speak. So this simply points to a situation that is very difficult in this country and that all bear and pay for Croatian citizens. That's a fact. And it's just a question of how far? How long will they be able to get the reserves out and pay for it all together? And I'm not amnesting a colleague or a government that I've been to or since. Just remember what you said when we were in 2009 warning that the situation was what it was, you were convincing that no, but you were saying that we didn't know. So now you're in power, you know, so what did you do? This rise in the price of heating by 37%, so why don't we finally make some kind of social map in this country, have this OIB, so let's go to those who have low incomes and let the state help them out of their budget. So remember in 2008 when the current was supposed to go up we intervened according to, there was no other indicator but according to consumption, but annually 125 million kunas were determined that electricity to those who at least spend, and I guess that is also the poorest, that their electricity price is not increasing. And it was practically paid for three years. And now we're listening here on the one hand, this transfers responsibility to this, the one to that one, this one says buy yourself a thermometer, and finally who's going to pay? The poor Croatian citizen will pay because he unfortunately comes to him for payment and he has to pay, he has no one to complain to. And let's not switch to each other here. Because let's remember what we said in 2009 when the crisis was much worse. Remember what we said at the end of 2008 when the price of crude oil went to $140 that Croatia could not influence, so inflation was 6%, but after that we contained that inflation. But now for the first time since then, inflation has come to 4%, but no longer due to the rise in the price of black fuel than the rise in a number of other prices. It hasn't been in the past years that dear colleagues and colleagues have been two dry years, and it was big in 2003, and I don't think it was in 2007, but it didn't happen despite the problem in the budget that the government didn't intervene with several hundred million, so there were floods and we didn't say we weren't going to exceed the deficit, we said we could give 300, 400 million. Maybe that wasn't enough, but we did. But today under cover of protecting something that has its consequences and past times for which we bear responsibility each other in our own time. We say we're not going to give this or what we're going to do, but the real question is, how much inflation we're going to have in the autumn months when food just has to go up. And that is why colleagues and colleagues of all these agenda points that come here are not negligible, because this reduction of income 1.5% of excise duties clearly indicates that all macroeconomic indicators in Croatia are unfortunately as they are and that they are bad and that with no cosmetic changes they cannot change. But what is the biggest tragedy is that we send all of this to those who pay very fat, and these are Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14318	Thank you very much. There are four replicas reported for this exhibit. Therefore, it is now quite certain that the debate on this legislative proposal will not be completed until the break, we will continue it after 15.00 hours. ...now replicas. First of all, the Honorable Representative, Đurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14319	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, fellow Shuker, you've been telling the truth and look but nothing unusual this government can say to them it's not very important that they reduce the excise duty on fuel and give up in favour of the citizens of Croatia because their first vice president sits on his boat, a favourable wind is his name. In one day, he spends five thousand kunas of gasoline and tells the people what's wrong with you, so why would he lower the excise on that? Well, then that's how you fly in Mr. Bakarić's mansions, fly in helicopters, ride in ships, you can do it in this crisis, you can do it. Why is that possible? You said well, the VAT rises in the price of fuel, heating, electricity and everything and people look at it all and wonders and then the first vice president smiles at the price of heating and says put in no heat. It's embarrassing of him to say, and he's gone nicely tanned back here and spit on all of us. Spend five thousand kuna for your tank of favourable wind on your ship. Shame, there you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14320	Second Replicator Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14321	Thank you very much. So it's not the thermometers that Mr. Shucker was talking about, it's the calories, so I wanted to say that the 37% increase in energy prices, or energy for heat production, above all in these 6 cities, will be the money that the Energy Center will buy new cars or use for Plomin 3, but above all I'm interested in these cars of the Energy Centre with heated seats without calories, they will be able to heat themselves to a mile of will without limit since the seats will be well heated. You kept telling Mr. Schucker that this is a cosmetic measure, so it is, but I would say on the other hand. Now for us in the neighborhood is BiH and Vojvodina, let's say Serbia, from which cigarettes are smuggled mass into the Republic of Croatia without excise duties today. The extent to which this measure will lead to an increased so-called increase. smuggling or black trade or black trade as the English would say, it will only show how much in that case, and the expected revenue from excise duties will actually be lower. And as for the flood and your payments, I know the payments of one kuna that you paid as your government for the flood damage in Slavonia, and most of them were around 20 kuna. Even so, it is better than this one paid for a random drought by arriving in Slavonia and Baranja and Srijem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14322	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14323	Thank you very much. You need to get a little used to this new regime. So, fellow Grubisic when we talk about excise duties then we should also say two things, one is that definitely excise duties on cigarettes will grow in some period, it is not said here, and the same is known for whose pressure it is. But if we're talking about farmers from the Virovitica-Podrava County, then we know it's chaos for them because practically the tobacco that they produce no one else in Europe does practically make cigarettes. Is someone doing some kind of program if Europe is asking us to do this so that through some funds or something, we can make it possible for those people to grow a new culture after all, their knowledge is exclusively about tobacco production. And also when we talk about an increase in the price of heating, let us not forget that according to EU directives, we have some kind of electricity and gas excise duty tomorrow. So when we talk about excise duties, then it is a far wider story which unfortunately reaches into the pocket of Croatian citizens again. And that's why we have to be extremely careful when we talk about it and not talk about it like this today, tomorrow we'll talk about it like that. Because this is something that is an administrative measure and nobody slows it down, but it's the only chance to talk about these things. And as for the payment of one kuna, there were tens of thousands of kunas, so someone goes as it goes, but it's important to show the will to help people. Because sometimes people are happy to get a few kunas but to see someone taking care of them and to understand their problem. but this is the first time that the Croatian government has tried not to react at all, for the first time. I even say the SDP-HNS and IDS coalition, which was in 2003, in the budget rebalancing, which was practically when the budget itself increased the expenditure side by 600 million kuna to solve the problems of drought from 2003. So that's why I said this problem that has no political omens. This problem that plagues Croatian citizens, and this problem would have to be addressed by the Croatian government right now, let's put politics aside.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14324	Thank you very much. Next replica, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14325	A fellow Shucker was right when he said that excise duties were one sure income, state budget revenue and nothing important changed. One of the first moves and HDZ authorities was to raise those excise duties as much as I remember because a pack of cigarettes from about 11 went now to 23 kuna. But it's on the side. I'll go back to the farm. One of the measures of the new minister is the insurance of crops from the drought. However, not a single insurance house, nor even Croatia's majority-owned insurance, which will now be sold out to fill up probably a crowded cash register, provides crops from drought. Maybe from a fight, but it's not from a drought, it's not from an offer. The other thing you said here is this property tax that is supposed to be replaced and abolished by a communal fee that was 100% the income of local self-government units, and in some of the bill's proposals, we see that certain legal activities will be financed from real estate tax. On the other hand, an open question arises as to who these will be, I agree that no public fee should be pounded by squares, but I wonder who will assess these properties, who will be the one who will in very short time ensure the functioning of the units of local self-government because they will not have income from municipal compensation and who and in any way assess real estate, and the tax as well as any tax will be a blow again and more impact on Croatian citizens' handcuffs, in any case.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14326	Ivan Shuker, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14327	Yes, my colleague Vinkovic, these are generous incomes, and that's exactly why they're guessing probably in the pocket, and that's a commodity that's always tempting to those who want to illegally earn money. And you, if you have a big difference of excise duties in the neighbouring countries, is a logical thing that there is a danger that these goods are being smuggled because you can make practically almost 100 kunas on a cigarette counter and that's why excise duties are trying to level. Also, while this price of gasoline on the world market could not have been as much an impact on price formation, then the same thing was... that the Croats were going to deliver fuel in BiH, however, this now agreed and you no longer have these needs. It best says how much it's going to take to fix it together. However, what is clearly to be said here today, that Croatian citizens will no longer be able to withstand this press release. And when we talk about real estate tax, then someone ugly is wrong if they think that tax can be introduced in two or three months because you have to evaluate every house. Your house and your neighbor's house aren't worth the same. If we're saying we're going to pay our taxes according to value. I remember when the house tax was introduced there in the early '90s, it was paid to the square. People were coming out of the existing municipalities and with the owner measured the size of the square so the solution was over 90% of the complaints. And now, you can think about it when someone estimates your house for 1,000 euros, and you're going to say it's not 1,000, it's 800 euros. How many complaints there will be, and until the appeal process is over, you can't pay in principle. Don't say your house is worth more or less. I just want to say that if it is said to be some new income of local self-government units, but then it should also be made clear that these revenues will go out of the pockets of Croatian citizens and when you look at only a percentage of the collection of municipal fees in local self-government units, and in all major cities, income from municipal income with income tax and a cut of one of the most important revenues, then make sure that the unit of local self-government is in trouble again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14328	Thank you very much. ... Let's hear the last line, distinguished representative Ivanka Roksandić. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14329	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You encouraged me to do a replica because you said you had a permanent picture of the current Minister Linic in late 2010 saying that the government is doing nothing. I have one other picture in front of my eyes, which is a picture of President Milanovic who ran to the City of Sisak last year and promised all sorts of hardware workers. The workers of the hardware store that this government has built up by 37%. And you know why, it's the only part of Sisak Caprag City that's just heating up from heat. The workers who got the miserable severances they had already spent on food in the first two months because the food was so chased and picked up, who spent on school textbooks and children's equipment for school. And waiting for their fate, a fate guaranteed to them. Our mayor was yelling we'll fix everything, the government won't leave you, and now fellow Shuker government has ordered the City of Sisak a 37% increase in heating and expects the City of Sisak to accept that increase. Gentlemen, it won't, because it can't, it can't because of the ironworks, I call them popularly, and because of all those people who live right here in a working village, the Capraga settlement, who are right next to the hardware store. You've made them live together, and you've also done that out of the 1200 workers who worked at the hardware store now the new owner says he's going to hire 30 next year. So much for helping the Croatian government irons Sisak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14330	All we'll hear is a reply to the replica of the esteemed John Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14331	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, colleague Roksandic, this best shows that it is not good to make a reduction of promises, especially when it comes to the economy because there are simply certain things that cannot be resolved by administrative means. The president and the first vice president of the government have come to Sisheni to wish them a happy New Year, but with a fig in their pocket, as unfortunately happens all this time. What the Sishkens have today, they have that virtually steel has no future, that their heating goes up 37%. And as you said that Sisheni would not pay, I also say openly here that the City Council of the City of Velika Gorica, regardless of what the mayor is afraid that maybe the City Council might make a different decision, will not vote for such a decision. But when we talk about HEP Toplinarism, then colleagues and colleagues here have to say something else that no one from the government wanted to say yesterday. HEP is a monopoliest and, as a monopolist, has received certain activities as part of its activities, including heat. So on behalf of that monopoly, selling electricity at some price, it deals with certain activities that may not be at a given time profitable but create a minus, but in a global company it should be in plus. It is also the Government that should have reacted and it is the Government who simply should not have allowed someone to ball and that someone who is a citizen of Zagreb, Velika Gorica, Sisak, Osijek and Zapresic practically threatens to raise the price before the warm season of 37%. It's the government who simply shouldn't have let this happen all the time. Also, it will be the government that will have to tell citizens tomorrow why certain excise duties on the key things in that consumer basket go up.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14332	Thank you very much. Okay, before I announce the break, just let me know how we're gonna work this afternoon. We will gather here at 3 p.m. to vote, confirm or not confirm the decision of the Mandate-Immunity Commission to grant authorisation for the launch of a criminal proceedings against MP Petar Cobankovic. Then we'll proceed with this discussion of the Excise Tax Act. We've still got three MPs on board. The first in line will be Commissioner Branko Bacic. Then we will move to the Proposal for a Law on residence, and then depending on how much time we have left, we will do another item on the agenda or we will not see it. I'm advertising a break. I'll see you at 3:00. Thank you very much. Bon appetit!
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14333	We are continuing to discuss the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Excise Taxation Act. The following has been registered for discussion by the individual representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14334	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with an associate. Amendments to the Taxation Act are to the greatest extent harmonised by Croatian legislation with the acquis of the EU and in the part relating to excise duties. Therefore, since the government has already proposed the harmonisation of the law with the acquis, I propose that we be consistent in this harmonisation and apply other EU excise duty directives. In fact, I propose that we bring this law in line with the Council's directives and that no. 96 of 2003, then No. 74 of 2004 and No. 75 of 2004 allowing the exemption from the payment of excise duties on petroleum products. According to the applicable Excise Act, Article 20 provides that shipowners and air carriers who sail in international navigation are exempt and are exempt from payment of a membership fee while shipowners sailing in national navigation are not exempt from excise duty but are paying a fee of 1 kuna per litre of fuel. In Europe, it is under these directives in the EU that shipowners sail in international navigation, whether they sail in EU waters are also free of excise duty in the purchase of fuel. However, given that the Republic of Croatia has become a full member of the EU since 1 July, Croatia's sea and territorial sea will be available and will be able to carry out its activities by EU shipowners in this case, Croatian excisers will not be competitive with EU vessels operating in Croatian waters. According to the current law, shipping by sea via passengers and cargo between Croatian ports can only be carried out by Croatian shipowners while after 1 July this activity will also be available to foreign shipmen who at this time are paying 65 per cent cheaper fuel compared to Croatian cabotage workers in national navigation. I therefore propose, and I will give the amendment, to change the Excise Taxation Act in the Excise Payment Part, and thus Croatian shipowners, and later I will say what they are, freeing the payment of excise duty on the payment of fuel at the height of 1 kuna. In doing so, I think of shipmen carrying out public, liner, coastal and maritime transport. These are shipowners that connect Croatia's islands to the front row. So, the biggest consumer is certainly Jadrolini, but also other small shipowners running line, coastal and maritime transport. Furthermore, these are small private boaters carrying out the transportation of passengers on circular voyages, such as small wooden boats, sailboats that provide, I would say, a unique tourist-nautical offer in the Mediterranean, and by which nautical tourism in Croatia is practically one of the leading nautical tourisms in the Mediterranean. And the third group of shipmen who are supposed to be released are shipowners in the inner navigation. So shipowners running traffic on Croatian rivers. The total annual cost of these shipowners that I mentioned was about 50 million gallons (50 million tons) somewhere, which, if released, would represent a lower revenue to the state budget, and for some 50 million kuna. In my view, this would be the first step that would allow Croatian boaters to compete after 1 July when Croatia becomes a full member of the EU. And the second step, and we will later on on behalf of the club and suggest, is that Croatian shipmen sailing in international navigation are free to pay a special tax on oil products in the section relating to the payment of toll. Namely, when Croatian boaters buy fuel, they pay 1.2 kunas per litre of fuel as a fee for Croatian roads and highways, which is why many boaters and all clear who sail are not too acceptable to pay the toll while they sail. I therefore said that this would mean a real lack of State budget revenue, but at the same time, since the largest beneficiary of the funds subsidized by maritime transport to islands could reduce the subsidy to public liners by such an amount and could thus almost eliminate revenues and expenditure. But the state could do or the government could take a step further and leave those funds to the ship to restore the fleet primarily to Jadrolini, as well as other shipmen, especially river shipmen or on the other hand, to make the cheapest cost of travel to the islands. I'll give you an example. For example, a ferry ticket for a private car and 4 passengers from Split to Lastovo costs a return ticket of 1,700 kuna and that is a huge amount that detimises any arrival of tourists on Lastovo, for example, and this is also the price for Korčula because they can spend their holidays somewhere in apartments on land for 3 or 4 days. Therefore, with this measure on the one hand, we could help boaters whether it is a Adriatic or other private shipmen, I say the most to the Adriatic, we could help them partially rebuild the fleet, we could reduce the cost of subsidies to the state budget, and so the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure should not now propose to reduce the line of dust to Croatian islands because the cost of subsidising that transport to Croatian islands would also be lower. Here I have said that in this sense I will propose an amendment, and if the Government thinks the same way, I propose to initiate a procedure to amend the Law on Special Tax on Oil Products and thus to those same shipmen, whether those who sail the sea or those who sail the rivers of free toll at 1 kuna and 20 June, which is the revenue of Croatian roads and Croatian highways. That has already been the case, and I think it is precisely the moment when the Government proposes to amend and supplement the Excise Taxation Act and to bring them in line with the EU acquis to bring them into line with the directives I mentioned earlier. After 1st July, I said cabotage throughout Croatia... will be enabled and foreign boaters will be particularly threatened by small private boaters engaged in nautical tourism and who are engaged in nautical activity will be threatened because they will be presumed to be EU sailors who will then pay for that fuel at about 60% lower prices than those paid today by boaters. I therefore believe that this is absolutely justified. In that sense, I say I will propose an amendment, and I suggest that the Government consider amending the Law on Special Tax on Oil Products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14335	Thank you. We have a replica of Josip Boric on your display. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14336	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I agree with everything Mr. Bačić said on the subject of excise duties, so I will try to add a few more facts because there was no surprise on the islands that the government through the Ministry of the Sea and the agency wants to cut between 25 and 30% of frequencies towards Croatian islands. It's weirder on that side because in the state budget we in this year at the position of the subsidy agency itself have 7 million kunas more than last year's achievements. So last year, 383 million this year, 390 million kuna, and we're proposing that 30% of the frequencies be abolished by islands with more money, with an explanation that 40 million kuna is missing. 40 million kunas can be missing only on the part relating to the cost of oil collected between kuna and half and two in this 8,9 months and it would be fair for everyone to have the state's ability to return directly from its budget, to keep the lines, because I say the state budget that gave 7 million kuna more for subsidies. When we enter the very price of the derivative and its structure in that price, let's say at a price of 10 kuna 25, which was in the 2nd month 5 kuna 38 is the price of the derivative itself, the excise duty is 2.95 and VAT 1.92. So in each liter of gasoline, the ratio of the derivative is 52.5% and everything else to the state is 47.5%. Of course, there are room for intervention, however, it is obvious that the government does not want to do so and wants to punish the islanders second time. For the first time through the price of gasoline, and the second time by eliminating additional frequencies, i.e. The isolation of Croatian islands. I think there's space here and that the government should react differently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14337	Thanks, buddy. We have a reply to the replica of our colleague Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14338	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's true, my colleague, I will fight everything you've said. Yesterday and during the current morning, I said that the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure had instructed... the chiefs of the proposal to reduce the reduction of the lines towards the islands of the 60s, 70s. It is planned for the ever larger Croatian islands, so for Korčula, Brac, Hvar, Ugljan, Cres and Mali Losinj it is planned to remove the night lines so that practically the islands would be locked at 9am and unlocked only in the morning at 6am. It is very interesting that among the islands planned for the removal of the night lines is not Rab island Rab. I'm glad the island of Rab wasn't planned, but if it points to such reflection on the fact that the deputy minister was right from Rab and was Mayor of Rab until yesterday. Therefore, if the government had decided and abolished the night lines for the Croatian islands, it would have been and I say these islands have about the population of the city of Zadar, so it would be about the same as if the city of Zadar closed at 7 o'clock in the evening, the hospitals, all the duty departments and citizens who live in Zadar had no significant public service available. I also called on the Prime Minister yesterday not to really do it because, as I said, it would bring the islanders back to a level of the '60s, '70s. Therefore, one way to address the lack of funds in the state budget for subsidising lines is to release excise duty per litre of shipowners' fuel connecting Croatian islands and thus enables less resources to be allocated in the state budget for the transport of Croatian islands.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14339	Thank you. The next individual debate was reported by Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14340	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister. Of course, nothing will change this bill. When I look at article 5. The government still has all the powers to determine excise duties, however, does not make any interventions in this regard. For example. Of course, the government could reduce excise duties if they want to help the poor Croatian people in this way, but it does not. The best example is fuel excises. Never was the price of gas or diesel higher than today. Mr. Greek's vice-president's statement yesterday could choose that it would continue to grow, he mentioned the price of 12 kuna, we are already over 11 kuna. I just want to remind you that the HDZ government has defended the price of 8 kuna in its time and that this can be achieved precisely by excise duties and that excise duties are exactly one of the mechanisms with which this can be achieved if desired, but obviously it is not wanted. In fact, such a terrible increase in fuel prices has not, in particular, been caused by an increase in the price of oil in the international market, such as in the past, it was known to be in 2008 and so on. when the sharp rises in oil prices were on the international market. But lately it hasn't been happening, but the fuel price is still rising. Why don't you cut the excise? Of course, when fuel prices rise prices of all foods, everything, because everything has to be transported, transported and, of course, citizens because it's getting harder and harder, but obviously it doesn't want to intervene in any way. Of course, it may be that a reduction in excise duty may be minimal, and I stress that it could be minimally praised with excellent budget filling, but certainly for individuals, it would be easier for Croatian citizens. But why do I say "minimum"? When the actual situation is analysed, it indicates that, in fact, despite about 1.5% reduction in excise income, the budget is still well charged, which means that it is well charged from other sources, and this excise drop indicates that people are actually spending less and less, because their lives are getting harder and harder. However, I would also like to say that this is not possible, this difficult state of citizens is explained as is very often tried, especially so biased media are trying to explain it with a global crisis. Of course, we all know that there is a global crisis, but we all know very well, too, unless we are plagued by that old Croatian pain, which is called political amnesia, that the global crisis began in 2008 and that it actually broke down in 2009. It did not appear either in 2012, nor did it appear by the coming of this authority to power. This is therefore not something new, and yet the situation in Croatia has become dramatically worsen at once, people's lives have become significantly more difficult. Thus, the global crisis cannot be the reason for this difficult life for people in Croatia today. I would like to say that I disagree with what the esteemed representative Vinkovic said will be a problem that excise duties will grow on cigarettes. I don't think that's a problem at all, but it's proven, and I, as a scientist, of course, must always be based on evidence, that for every 10% increase in the price of cigarettes from the country's consumption of cigarettes is reduced by 8%. Why is it so important, not because people who are my age or older will stop smoking, these illusions have no one and not even us experts, but such a significant increase in the price of cigarettes will affect that young people, that children do not start smoking because their allowancees, especially in such a terrible economic situation as they are in Croatia today, are certainly not enough for young people to start buying cigarettes and become smokers, and that is something of course proven. So I'm not worried that the price of cigarettes would increase, but I'm worried about something else. I'm concerned that nothing is actually done either about excise duties or about VAT that everything that is usually in, we medics say, and also tomorrow, the day after that you will hear about the health development strategy where there will certainly be a lot of nice words about how prevention should be, etc., that absolutely nothing is done but exactly the opposite of what the whole developed world is doing when we talk about prevention, especially about food. We know that in Croatia we actually increased VAT from 23% to 25%, but at the same time to those foods that are actually harmful to health if in a large amount they enter, which is fat, it's sugar, it's reduced VAT by 10%. It's exactly the opposite of what developed countries do. Developed countries stimulate that citizenship can eat more of the healthier foods, which is vegetables and fruits, and what we have done, we have reduced actually VAT and we encourage people to eat unhealthy food, and when we talk about fruit and vegetables, we have destroyed and systematically destroy our agriculture. We do absolutely nothing to stimulate this agriculture, especially in order to make food prices cheaper and more accessible to citizens. In fact, we've raised VAT on these items, and we've reduced these malignancies. So it's absolutely the opposite of everything developed countries do, especially European countries, which we admire very much, and every so much compare with them, but when it comes to action, we see concrete examples of what we do exactly the opposite. And something else might have to do with the tobacco. When I say the fact is one thing, we have a number of people who live on tobacco farming, especially in Virovitica-Podravska County, but we do nothing at all, which is again done by some developed countries that have had significant tobacco production, but then by encouraging measures, so not by forcing no provisions but by encouraging measures actually turned that production of subsidies, led these producers to grow some gradually, not overnight, it cannot be done but gradually to move on to some other cultures and thus, of course, do not endanger their existence. Of course, it never cares whether the existence of farmers will be compromised, and how much concern they can be seen every day, so I don't think we should talk any further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14341	Thank you, too. We have two replicas on your exhibit. First, a colleague named Zoran Vinkovic came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14342	Not wanting to interfere with the medical profession, but here as a layman, smoking is really harmful to health regardless of what I am a smoker, but not wanting to promote tobacco products or that industry, and neither would I say tobacco addiction. I have only said the fact that this law and this regulation will affect the increase of such products. Whether it's good or bad, but the intention is primarily the government and the Ministry of Finance and by raising it, so I'd say the only one left if someone smokes two packs of cigarettes is probably a little blurry. It doesn't have to be on these easy or heavy drugs, so get out of this heavy, raw one really. But escapes from these measures that did not bring good to the Croatian economy, because it is visible by exact examples. Therefore, all these measures by the Ministry of Finance, in particular the Ministry of Finance, did not lead to gross domestic product being on the rise. On the contrary, it is in decline, nor is industrial production increasing. On the contrary, she falls. At the same time, the cost increases, so those baskets of standard living for citizens, citizens in Croatia. And of course this part will affect now not by entering whether any food is fat, nonfat, healthy or so on. But here's Mr. Doctor, the Croatian people of God can't eat my caviar, but above all, he's doomed to eat that bacon soap opera if it's in Slavonia after this basic accident and these measures by the Ministry of Agriculture that I believe and the minister himself doesn't believe that I can succeed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14343	Thank you. We have the next line. And you answered. Here is my colleague, Vice President Reiner, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14344	Thank you very much. Well, here's what I have to agree with. It is true, and that is exactly what I was saying, although we are different about smoking, but it is certainly a fact that these measures will absolutely not bring any relief to the Croatian people, but in many respects it will actually make their life very difficult for them anyway. And as far as the economy is concerned, everything you've said is true. Unfortunately, everything's getting smaller. Exports decrease, production decreases, sales decreases. Of course, when excise duties are raised, the consumption will drastically decrease as well. People who don't have money anyway are going to be more expensive to them now, not buying them. Those people who produce it will have nothing to produce. We'll have more unemployed, and thank God we've got enough. Anyway, it's been the first year since I remember, and unfortunately I have some gray ones that we've had more unemployment in the summer than we've had in the rest of the year. It's so bizarre in a country that lives off tourism that we all have to ask ourselves how it's possible. How is it possible that for the first time we actually have in the middle of the season more unemployed than workers? I'm surprised that none of those who should be very concerned about it care about it, but we just listen to the media, of course, know who these media are inclined to praise about fantastic season, phenomenal success, etc. and how to explain that we have more unemployed in the middle of the season than before that never happened 10 years ago, not 20 years ago, not 30 years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14345	Thank you very much. And the next replica, Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14346	Gentlemen vice presidents, therefore also chairman and speaker before me. Namely, when famous piper Mark Twain asked if the problem was to quit smoking. He said no problem, so I did it a hundred times. Since the budget is filled with excise duties and from cigarettes relatively well, much better than, they give much more into the budget than those who don't smoke, and also those who don't drink too. Because excise duty and heavy alcoholic beverages are very high. Now, you spoke to your colleague Reiner professionally, I have no doubt of four, and I think there are five white deaths. These are salt, sugar, flour, fat and cigarettes, so I wanted to say that the price of cigarettes in the European Union is in any of the countries that I know there, Germany, France and so about 6 euro boxes. So, about 45 kuna which is still twice as much as ours. But there are a lot of things you're inconsistencies about. One of the basics is that your government, therefore yours, I speak partyly to your government in the 2011 budget, a decision that encourages the development of tobacco, processors or tobacco producers with 64 million kuna, and the development of pigmeat with 32 million kuna. Advising that fat must be more harmful than cigarettes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14347	Thank you. We don't have a reply to the replica. And last reported for an individual debate by counterpart Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14348	Continuing. So, I welcome the discussion of former HDZ Secretary Bačić Branko when he stood up for the reduction of excise duties on island lines from Rab, which is not the case. So we're not all equal before the law, so according to the rest of the islands all the way to Mljet and those Dubrovnik islands. But no one is talking about that fuel consumption, oil and toll from Strošinac, Drenovac, Lipovac, Afševac, Podgradje and all other eastern parts of Croatia, so these people are producers of agricultural products, as well as these fat pigs, which are the most famous of which there are absolutely no discounts on tolls, i.e. excise duties, on fuel when transporting their agricultural products, for example in Rijeka to the market, in Rijeka on the wholesale market. There's a much higher price of toll than it costs one fed, fed, drowned as a pig says, and then a truck ride by one that drives three, four pigs for toll and excise, so the fuel must spend as much money as one fat pig. That's not what Mr. Bacic is talking about, but I have to because I come from Slavonia and Baranja. Furthermore, no one here is talking about the imposed excise duty on the brandy boilers that cost the citizens of Slavonia quite a price. It is known how much this depends on the size of the Racan boiler, Mr. Shuker even introduced it when the Customs Control was also excellent walking in the villages of Slavonia and the most insidious villages looking in the stables as '45. In the years these Partizans have been working pots for roasting brandy. And not only that, brandy excises are not paid as much as each household bakes for its own needs, but only 50 liters of brandy. And I believe that every one of you, none of you is an alcoholic that I don't call, so you spend so much hot drinks in your house for guests, birthdays, names and everything else within six months. In Slavonia, I'm sure, and more because they hang out a little bit more, because people are different, they're more friendly, they're more friendly. But there's still 50 liters of brandy left that can be produced without paying the excise fees. But for roasting brandy, you have to pay the fee for the boiler. And that customs control neatly edits every day in the villages of Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, so that Mr. Vinkovic does not correct me. So, what is covered by excise duties, with what we talked about most about cigarettes today, and that will produce the effect that in our surrounding countries, resourceful people who, by boating across the Danube and Sava or freely in the car, say transportation, each has the right to translate a single fee, so now it's in effect some customs law, that this illegal to say imports to black cigarettes, given the increase in excise duty expected, does not say here that there will be an increase, just a change of excise duty, so it won't be, God forbid I cheated on them to go down, but as it is judged at the price of fuel it's hard to expect. Although oil prices are on the world and so on. In the Mediterranean market, it's called Mediterranean as if it's something outside the world market, so when it's going to be in Iraq oil cheap and at the Mediterranean rally. Oh, come on! Or vice versa. So it depends on the movement of oil on stock exchanges around the world. It's not a Mediterranean exception to oil prices. But even though the Mediterranean and the world's oil prices stagnates or falls on our market, here on our gas stations it keeps growing. Then it goes like that one Leninov - two steps forward, one step back. So, one Tuesday, it goes down by 10 limes, and the next, it jumps 30 and so again. So by now, the price is already exceeding 11 kuna for gasoline, and here's close to 11 for diesel fuel. Because of this and because of the fact that dubious policy at all is every government that, with 64 million kuna, encourages the tobacco-making industry, or people who are involved in tobacco production, tobacco planting, let me say it in particular... Pitomaca and the surrounding area is something that extends, and even in Požega katlina, tobacco is now also being planted in Požega-Slavon County, so they originate with 64 million kuna per year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And the entire pigfowl of the Republic of Croatia is an incentive of 32 million kuna. So is it normal in one normal state? For pig husbandry, 32 million kuna, and for the production of tobacco, 64 million kuna. And we're fighting all the evils that smoking brings, not to talk about lung disease, high pressure, heart disease,...is that so, fellow Reiner, etc. Because of what counterpart Vinkovic said in the introduction, it is difficult to be in favour of such a law, and as regards the price and inflation that here says 4% at the monthly level. So imagine interest 4% on the monthly level how much is the total annual? But for August 4% how much total inflation is then annual? And the prices of meat, and the living were seen. But certainly with this drought in which this government does not want any kuna, not a single move to help the village and agriculture, not only with the kuna but also with the irrigation plan, by digging up the Danube-Sava channel, by investing in this segment of the water economy for the future so that the drought no longer poses a problem or a serious elemental disaster, thus leading to the fact that such expensive grains due to the drought will not be able to buy a farmer's special livestock segment to feed his cattle. What's going to happen is that I already have calls personally from people from the village I know who are members of the HDSSB, if I buy a pig fed, he has nowhere else to feed it, he can't feed it anymore. And that's what I was saying in one replica that maybe so much, I didn't say it would cheap the meat prices, but maybe it won't go that far because the domestic producer is going to sell their breeding herd and sell everything they have out of livestock that feeds on corn, wheat and others to actually get rid of cattle at any price. Here, I expect replicas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14349	Thank you. We have four reported replicas on your exhibit. The first one came to Josip Boric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14350	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, I have to take this call, and I had to replicate to an esteemed colleague because he compared the transport of the island of islanders to the transport of pigs to the market while calling on my island of Rab as an example as there will be no such reduction of lines, etc. for ministers and for what I know. So I was quite clear about that part, so the government shouldn't stop the frequencies that we've had so far because there's more money in the budget than last year, so we should stay at least on the same part or add something, and there's room in the price and structure of the oil or gasoline price itself. Because I made it clear that it means 10.25 kunas the price of gasoline the state takes up to 4,7.5% means that there are 4,7.5% reasons to make life easier for people, island residents, boaters, to reduce its share of excise duty, to finance it nicely from the state through subsidies to the islanders and to keep it as a acquired right for them because it's really embarrassing that we have to come back here and I'll tell you an example of Rab Island that was still closed at 8 o'clock in the evening we had the last line to land. The islanders don't travel, so I compared this with the pigs, we don't travel to the mainland so that we can enjoy ourselves or I don't know what we're doing but simply out of need because we're always tied to the county centers and there are hospitals in them and health institutions, there are universities in them, there are schools, high schools, doctors and what I know not. And I think this is the real punishment for us islanders what came as an announcement, and we're not guilty because I say twice we'll pay. One time through the price of gasoline, and the other through the frequency reduction. It's not even fair and I think it's fairer then that the state gives up almost three kunas of excise duty per litre of gasoline so that at least a decrease in the kuna here we find 40 million kunas and we're all kind of satisfied. Here's one... and a good solution for us islanders.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14351	Thank you. We have an answer to your replica Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14352	Thank you very much. My colleague, you've irrevocably replicated him. I didn't compare the transport of pigs to the transport of humans or I don't know who from the island either Rab or Korčula doesn't matter. I was talking about transport costs, and that's not the same thing. So it's not the same thing you said, so I don't know if it's ironic or maybe you mentioned it by mistake. But if you're looking for it, and I think it would be better to introduce bonuses, I agree with that, and that's what your Mr. Bacic said that Rab is exempt from it, so contact him in connection with Rab and not me, but I'm up to it for your proposal to just cut the cost to the boaters. But you were very flexible and democratic and smart to acknowledge, too, that the peasants from Strošinac and Gunja and Račinovac and Rats are therefore allowed to sell their agricultural product to the OPG owners registered in the system. I didn't say that about tourists who go from Paris to the sea, but about the owners about those who are registered in the system. It's about that. And as for Rab as something preferable so tell Mr. Bačić who cited it as a piece of information, I didn't say it. And you two make a deal here from HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14353	Thank you. We have the next replica of Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14354	Dear fellow Boro here a few years ago someone from the government broke in here in the Croatian Parliament or in the cabinet session that the citizens of Croatia live better is just not aware of it. At the same time, watching a television show, which was sometime during the Easter, the time of Lensing asked the citizens what to give up at the time of the use. Here I always remember this unfortunate citizen of the Republic of Croatia who told me this way they stole me, robbed me, no more, I ended up on the street, got fired, I gave up my wife and kids, I started drinking, I no longer have money to drink, I stopped eating, there's no food, I don't go to Caritas or the Red Cross anymore, I ended up stopping and smoking. Croatian citizens living in similar conditions today should also be told that, as citizens, if such measures and taxes continue without the recovery of the Croatian economy, they will stop and smoke because they have stopped and eaten because they do not have for books, have no food, no clothes, shoes and an average Croatian citizen, no matter how hard they try to tell them that they live better thanks to the measures of this government today, they do not live better than they live worse and worse every day. And the intention of this law is exclusively filled with the state budget, charging as the Ministry of Finance says already filled with cash registers. Another time about how money is spent from the state budget on which, on which, and apparently, it is spent on nothing because we live every day worse and worse.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14355	Thank you. We have an answer to the replica Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14356	Col. Vinkovic, if the cash register is packed if the perfect menu is not clear why concessions are sold on the highway and why the Croatian Post Bank is sold and why Croatia's insurance is sold, it will never be clear to me and it will be excellently filled according to both plan and budget adopted by the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, when you're talking about how full of the state budget you might be younger than me but I knew a man who in that former Yugoslavia had raised a non-intentional loan. Then he rose at the time to change into German stamps, so those German stamps were placed in... However, the man raised a non-intentional loan and drank it and did not turn anything into German stamps. Then he was supposed to be admitted to the party and then a neighbor sued him that he drank a non-intentional loan and couldn't go to the party as such. He claimed at a party organisation, a cell that was already said to have greatly benefited the state because the state had taken a large cost of drinking. This is what it looks like with these excise duties, it will be with this country of Croatia even though it is no longer part of the SFRY thank God.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14357	Thank you. The next replica is Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14358	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Grubisic, I remember who said this thought that the people live better but that they are not aware of it. But I don't want to talk about it right now, but I'm going to do what you've associated me with in your debate, you're talking about criteria, incentives, etc. it is always for the debate absolutely but there is one already problem fellow Grubisic. The incentives don't pay off, they don't pay off in time. For the sake of the doctors, they haven't gotten the information yet for February. I know that information doctor please. But the other one's a problem, but there's also 50 lip support that's been suspended. And imagine how much that 50 lip would contribute to keeping our O.P.G.? Surely, and this is how we witness every day the decline of 3, 4, 5 OPG, the production of milk is reduced, of course due to the production of meat, the price of food we are aware of. And now in these circumstances drought comes and now says it's a drought but there's nothing for an elemental accident nothing. Well, it's not farming a dear fellow to come to a field in a black limo and a white shirt. Agriculture is a grueling work on all terms and conditions and in all circumstances and in these circumstances leaving our farmers at bay it is unforgivable, but surely in that part our citizens will also feel the consequences in these circumstances with this increase and these energys and everything and food even as such going up will certainly be one big blow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14359	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14360	A colleague in two senses and a councilman as a representative and as a doctor. Elemental disasters and some compensation for the elemental disasters are paid out of the current reserves from the Republic's budget, however, they say current reserves have been spent 90% in 7 months, so what... predicted for the whole year. The current reserves also pay off those known, pay for the Serbian People's Council news and help the Serbian People's Council. So for these needs there's money, and for elemental disasters there's no money. Now, the one that said that people live well just because they don't actually see it. They swore by drying their hands and I don't know what they didn't do, so let it be as they said themselves, and let it be the left hand as far as atrophy and hypotrophy, drying, if that's the case.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14361	Thank you. Next replica, representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14362	A colleague Grubisic, believe it or not, but the excise duties on roasting cavities were introduced into Međimurje, not only in Slavonia, with only a correction of one data, not 50 liters of brandy for his own needs but 20 or 100%, so how much later do you dilute your thing? It could be 60 and 80 liters, it could be a mess. On a boiler of up to 60 liters if I'm not mistaken, it's 100 kunas so that the brandy boilers can now be compared to the television receiver. Unless you give him a seal, you don't have to pay the state. And to cut short, when you recalculate excise duties along with excise stamps, per liter of manufactured rakia OPG pays 22 kuna excise duties to 42%. It's about the excise system that was copied and, if I remember correctly, I was told by the negotiators that they were able to negotiate one of the lowest excise duties on heavy alcoholic beverages, 22 kuna per litre of 42%.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14363	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14364	Thank you, colleague Lesar. No matter what brandy it is if it doesn't have at least 40, 50 builds, so it's these 50 liters or 25 liters of 100% alcohol or spirit as our people say it is. So what's wrong with you is that you're drinking up there in Međimurje. And as for the boiler and boiler fee of up to 60 liters of kuna, the larger one is already 200 kuna, therefore you must state that it is not 100 kuna the price of one boiler. But you have to say that it's the same thing. the agreed quota for the production of brandy for their own needs or alcohol, domestic alcohol of 1,000 liters of wine so that the wineries anywhere were, in Slavonia, Dalmatia or Međimurje,... where there are excellent wines I admit, much better passed than the producers of brandy. You agree, don't you?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14365	Thank you. I hope my colleague Grubisic will not cause me any damage to the Rules of Procedure, but my colleague Lesar is right, in the SZ part of Croatia, a very high-quality and stronger rakija is roasted than in Slavonia. In conclusion, I'd like to ask Deputy Minister Boris Lalovec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14366	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's just a very short one. I thank you for today's debate, and that means we will accept these two amendments submitted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Finance. Today, there has been a much broader debate than the subject of these parts regarding the electronic excise document itself, so the problems are in the economy and in this part of what I heard today about the very good budgeting. Just one little note, we're still down as much as that budget looks, we're still spending more than we're making, so I wouldn't start discussing it that way. So what we need is to get stable public finances, when we get stable public finances, then we're actually trying to stabilize the economy and ultimately raise the standard of living for citizens. So it doesn't work without each other, it's a causal relationship so when we talk about the budget it means the goal is actually I hope this House High is also supporting that it's a stable budget because they're stable in that part of the payout and pension, stable and health care and they're stable means all these expenditures that are on the state budget so that in that part, all the necessary conditions for a stable economy. So here's how I thank you for today's debate and I accept these two amendments that have been delivered to us here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14367	I thank the Deputy Minister. This is what we've exhausted the defendants for the hearing. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14368	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Excise Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 154, the debate on the text of the law is over. The proposer's representative accepted the amendments submitted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. The amendment was also submitted by MP Branko Bačić. I call upon the Government's representative to plead on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14369	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The applicant does not accept the amendment by reason that considering the issue in question necessarily requires an overall analytical and serious examination of the overall fiscal, economic and social and other effects and therefore cannot be intervened with the content of these amendments and additions in fiscal matters. However, we note that by the end of this year we are adopting a new Taxation Act in order to fully align Croatia with the European excise system and in this case we will have a proposal to analyse this issue analytically and systematically, and we will actually open this issue through the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14370	Thank you. Amendment holder Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14371	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So in my argument, when I discussed the need for the Government to accept this amendment, I said what kind of epilogue it would be on July 1st when Croatia became a full member of the European Union. The Croatian shipmen who sail in national navigation will then be in an unequal position, they will be discriminated against by other shipowners who come to the European Union because the cabotage in the Croatian sea will also be available to European boaters. The Croatian shipowners will then pay the fuel at 60% more expensive price than the shipowners coming from the European Union precisely because they will pay excise duties, because there has been enough time for the Government, the Ministry of Finance, to consider until today's vote because it is very simple, this problem, to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the European Union directives and to adopt this amendment in this way because Croatian shipowners pay more expensive fuel. It's more expensive for consumers, the services these shipmen provide. These are primarily Croatian islanders who have higher ticket prices because Jadrolinija and other shipowners performing public line traffic pay more expensive fuel. They pay an expensive price and all guests who come to the Croatian islands. I said that because of such a price of ferry tickets that tourists very little come to Korčula, Lastovo and other external islands because the price for car is returned to Korčula and Lastovo 1600 kuna, that it is approximately equal to accommodation in apartments on land for three to four days. Therefore, there was enough time for this amendment to be considered, for the government to accept it and for Croatian shipmen to be no longer in an unequal position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14372	Thank you very much. Who is for the amendment of the respected representative Branko Bačić, whom the government does not accept? Thank you very much. The amendment didn't get the required majority. I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Does anyone mind? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that the law has been passed by most votes, 88 votes against, 39 against and 2 abstentions. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Now, I'd like to ask the services to count more carefully, so we'll repeat the vote on the excise tax code. I'm asking who's in favor of the law. Who's against the law? Who's restrained? Now we're going to declare the exact result of the vote. 88 votes to four against and two abstentions. But, no, they raised their hand. Okay, I'm saying we've passed this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14374	We're going to the next item on the agenda, that's 4. Proposal for a residence law, first reading, P.Z. No. 143 The bill is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the motions by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Internal Policy, National Security, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Croatia outside the Republic of Croatia. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Deputy Minister Evelyn Tonkovic. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14375	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. Procedures relating to the registration and check-in of residences and residences of citizens are governed by the provisions of the Law on residence and residence of citizens whose provisions define the residence as the place where the citizen settled with the intention of living in it all the time. The current Law on residence and residence of citizens did not provide for the possibility of checking out a person’s residence without his personal request, so often it happened in practice that persons who have nothing to do with the registered residence do not live at the registered address still have documents in which the address was printed which do not reside and establish the flats resulting from the basis of the residence. This situation leads to difficulties in drawing up a list of voters, issuing public documents with incorrect data, inability to find persons by courts and other state bodies, etc. The registration of residences and residences of citizens must correspond to the real state of residence of citizens as a series of rights prescribed by specific regulations such as tax regulations, health care rules, health insurance, social care rules, regulations governing the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and others are based on the residence. The new Law on residence introduces the concept of permanent and temporary residence, since the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in Article 32 provides for the legal person on the territory of the Republic of Croatia to be free to move and choose a residence, i.e. the Constitution uses the concept of residence. The permanent residence is defined as the place and address of which the person has settled permanently for the purpose of exercising his rights and obligations relating to life interests such as family, professional, economic, social, cultural and other interests. The temporary stay is defined as the place and address of the Republic of Croatia where the person is temporarily staying without the intention of permanent residence. The temporary stay may be registered for a period of up to one year, and after the expiry of the period of one year must be extended and may not last longer than two years. In the case where a person stays in a temporary place for more than 2 years, it would no longer be a temporary residence but a permanent residence, and the person is obliged to enter that place permanently. The bill provides for exceptions when temporary residence can be extended so that it lasts longer than two years in the case of education, employment, accommodation in various institutions etc. The transitional and final provisions define that from the date of entry into force of this Act, the concept of residence used in other applicable regulations is considered to be a permanent residence and the concept of habitual residence is considered to be a temporary residence, and the rights and obligations established on the declared residence, registered residence and habitual residence continue to be used, i.e. to be fulfilled on the basis of the declared permanent or temporary residence. The most significant change in relation to the applicable law is the provision of the possibility to delete from the records of the permanent and temporary residence of persons who have turned out to have never lived in the registered address or who have moved to another place in the Republic of Croatia or outside the Republic of Croatia. Deleting procedures will be initiated under official duty on the basis of data established by the police administration or station itself or by the data supplied by public authorities or by interested legal or natural persons. Before erasing the data collection on permanent and temporary residence, the police administration or the station will have to establish all the facts and circumstances on which it can undoubtedly be concluded whether a person lives at the address of the registered permanent residence or not, and the proposed law stipulates that the facts of the police administration or the station must be determined in particular. Exceptionally, erasure procedures will not be carried out for persons who are on temporary work or abroad education if they have reported their departure in accordance with the provisions of this Act as well as for persons covered by the renewal or housing programme, if their property has not yet been renovated, returned or otherwise resident in the Republic of Croatia. Citizens will be obliged to notify the police administration or the station in whose territory they have registered permanent residence directly or through a diplomatic mission, the consular office of the Republic of Croatia, in case of temporary departure abroad. This is necessary in view of the application of Regulation 862/2007 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 July 2007 on Community statistics, on migration and international protection which obliges Member States to report EUROSTAT among others on emigration that is expected to last for at least a year. There is also a way to report the permanent residence of minors and persons deprived of their business skills and homeless persons. During the application of permanent and temporary residences and changes in the home address, citizens will make a written statement that they have settled in the place and at the address of the permanent or temporary residence and that they have secured living conditions. This will not limit citizens' right to free movement and choice of residence but will only require citizens to confirm that in place and at the address where they report permanent or temporary residence they have secured housing conditions which is a necessary assumption that they might be staying somewhere. In the event of a suspicion in a statement, for example, a person shall indicate an address in which there are no housing facilities and, similarly, prior to the registration in the collection of data on permanent and temporary residence, the police administration or the station will have the authority to carry out a field check at that address in order to determine the truthfulness of the declaration itself. The transitional and final provisions of the proposed law have required all citizens to verify data on their residence within 6 months in the police administration or station or on the website of the Ministry of Interior, and the ministry is obliged to record such verification. Persons who fail to meet those obligations in the collection of data on permanent and temporary residence will be registered with a note on unscheduled data of permanent residence. Here, that would be a brief summary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14376	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, we'll move on to a club debate. The first enlisted Croatian Labourists, Mr Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14377	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I don't know why there's a third saying in the people. For me personally, for the third time, nothing has been realized which is not the first time, for the second time or for the fifth time. But I will use that saying when it comes to this law and I want to believe that trying to pass this law for the third time in the Croatian Parliament is a successful attempt. What's this about? Twice so far, the Croatian Parliament has conducted the first reading of such a law in this area, and after the first reading with those of our classic conclusions, suggestions, suggestions will be delivered to the promoter as if they had eaten them, and bill proposals, moths in some kind of closets and so for the past 8 years. This law is also crucial for three reasons. The first very important list of voters and records such as residence registers, residences by old formulations and unsettled residence records was one of the reasons for the unsettled list of voters. I expected this law earlier in time because it should be followed by amendments to the Law on the List of voters met by local elections in May next year. Because making a list of voters only by intervention in the Law on the List of Voters was not possible until this law was passed. However, it is not the only meaning or the only value of this bill that we will support in our first reading and if, until the second reading, several of the concerns from it are either clarified or deleted in the second reading. Therefore, the second importance of this law is in the availability of public authorities especially to the judiciary. So, we had a big problem with the fact that because of the disorderly record of the residences of citizens who were subject or search, investigations or trials were not available to the authorities. And the third is from the social sphere. The fact is that in Croatia today we have a large number of registered citizens of the Republic of Croatia with residence in Croatia and still in one of the neighbouring countries, and their primary interest was not so much an electoral right but a material income. Birth benefits, child benefits, the right to free health care on the burden of the state and even social assistance. And that is the only way to abuse the possibility that someone has a double residence with citizenship a resourceful large number of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia abused this right and social rights used in both countries. A few billion kunas in these eight years, 8.5 years from the state budget and the budget of municipalities, cities and counties have gone away, and we shouldn't have regulated this in time. That is why we believe that it is indeed time for the Croatian Parliament to adopt the new law. Of course those decisions of the Constitutional Court in repealing part of the old law are, in a formal and legal sense, an important argument. As far as the provisions of the law are concerned, I asked them on the Committee on the Constitution of Answers which I have received and cannot be satisfied with because I believe they are in practice opening up the possibility of manipulation. Article 10(3) states that the person making the application of the residence will have to obtain the consent of the landlord. So far, this meant that you should bring to the Police Department a document on proof of ownership of the apartment, residential space, co-ownership, contract of rent or consent of the owner, for example, the husband had to marry if she was single, or an out-of-marriage community to let her report her old residence at the same address or son's father's son, mother of a daughter, daughter of a mother anyway. Now the process is being liberalised and says to obtain consent. I was told on the board that practically the applicant of the residence would give a statement that he had the consent of the owner of the apartment, the tenant. Is it not threatening to first, because of the large number of changes and the arrangement of this after the entry into force of this law, that we bury the police with controls to see if the najdavac gave consent to someone to report to his address if there is no need for a statement from the owner of the apartment to be presented in writing or verbally anyway? Therefore, the formulation of obtain consent indicates that there is a written document. Article 11 provides for the obligation that those who provide accommodation services must report to anyone who has been renting accommodation for more than 3 months and that this applies to those who provide accommodation professionally. What does that mean? That the hotel has to report a guest if he's in a hotel for more than three months? He reports it every day. If someone deals with renting ten apartments for seasonal workers, it's not three, it's more than three months, is that the obligation to register the owners, so the tenant should be introduced for each application? Instead of Article 10 of the consent, the obligation of the tenant to apply. And then we'd get two things. They say that out of the 40,000 apartments in Zagreb that have been leased taxes are paid and contracts are concluded only for 3,000 and that about 37,000 are illegal. Then they'd take down that illegal. He has to report the fact that he hired someone to stay with him. And will the tax administration know how to use these data in terms of payment of obligations under tax laws, I will not do it any further. I think it would facilitate the position of those who are renting an apartment because it's not the ones who want to hide the fact that they live somewhere but the owners of the apartment force them into an illegal apartment to avoid paying taxes and not give them documents. It seems to me that this approach would be more useful and easier to implement, and that the police would have much less to do with field checks that way. Third, Article 12 speaks when someone will not be deleted under official duty from the records and lists the conditions for temporary work or abroad education and is covered by the reconstruction programme from housing. Here again, the wording on temporary work abroad opens up the possibility of abuse because the authorities in the Republic of Croatia will not be able to check abroad whether it really works temporarily abroad. Well, if we were going to do it through diplomatic consular offices, it would really be unnecessary. That is why it would be good to regulate here that for temporary work as well as for schooling, and there is a document that presents the authorities in Croatia or diplomatic consular representation from which it can be seen whether it really is temporary work and that it will not be deleted from its residence in Croatia. And lastly, Article 18(2) obliges all those who have submitted their applications before the entry into force of this new law to verify whether the police have implemented their application and whether everything is okay on the websites or somewhere. Why would a citizen who reported a change of residence in orderly in the police department have to check the new residence to see if the authorities carried out his application and if it's all right now? That's what the law obliges him to do, to give that possibility for the safety of data he understands, he has a fair check, but he has to check it out. I went to the police, gave up all the files, signed up a new address, and now I have to check to see if the police carried out my application. I have a right not to have to. And last recommendation, enter a provision in this law that the registration of a temporary residence does not require a change of personal documents because when you change your residence, you have to change your identity card and all other personal documents. There is a special law, though on personal documents, but these are new categories of temporary residence and a permanent residence so that we do not get into a situation where someone remembers and that the change in the records of the temporary residence necessarily requires and changes in personal documents. That one sentence won't bother the law and it'll be clear. All those who report a temporary stay for any reason, don't change the documents, everything remains the same only the police know where you are now. That's how it has to be in an orderly state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14378	Thank you, too. We've got two lines reported. The first one called Peja Grbin. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14379	Dear Mr. Vice President, thank you. Here I was led to this replica by two allegations of a respected colleague named Lesar, and the first was when he said that this debate today was the third happiness and the second when he said that he hoped that we would discuss this law earlier. I agree, perhaps, that this law should have been discussed before, but consultations between several ministries should have been carried out and the law is in my opinion on time in the procedure. However, much more to this replica, or this response to his exposure, drove me to a fact that I learned yesterday on the Committee on Justice and was shocked. Yesterday I learned on the Justice Committee why such a law had never been passed before. And this is because a group of HDZ deputies praised it yesterday through Vatican diplomacy stopped the adoption of such a law. Imagine people sitting in the Croatian Parliament today blocked the adoption of such a law through the diplomacy of a foreign state, and a respected colleague boasts about it and is proud of it. Well, colleague Lesar, I thank you for your support that you gave this law some of your remarks I really think you should adopt. Here's Mr. Deputy also agrees that they will be considered. I thank you for your support, and I guarantee that the adoption of this law will not be blocked, especially through the diplomacy of a foreign country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14380	Thank you, too. The answer to the replica is representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14381	I thought you were a representative, not a minister, so you're talking about the reasons only the Ministry knew why it took them eight months, I said maybe a little earlier. It is not too late for other laws to be sent to this session, which are necessary to sort out the list of voters. But this one group of MPs, I know what they look like and what they're called and what they're called, and it's not just over one country that's been stopped by law not just over one, and it's not just that group of MPs sitting here. The truth works only the difference is that not all of these facts are praised.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14382	Thank you. It appears to be a replica of Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14383	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Lesar is here, and I am joining a colleague of the coat of arms who thanked you for your constructive proposals and for supporting this law. I just wanted to add something a little bit when you mentioned the Tax Administration and the application of the residence or that now everyone living in a rental apartment will have to report a residence. The following topics have been expressed your belief that the Tax Administration will know how to use these data because we need to be aware of the fact that the vast majority of apartments are being issued in Croatia today. on black or not legal, not through a lease contract and tax is not paid. I believe that's how it's going to work because here I was offered a line with the debate we had on the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports where we said, among other things, government efforts to create the EU administration. So at the time when the entire administration including this and the MUP have been networked, it is very easy to access or obtain information about each individual, its obligations, or not in accordance with the obligations it has to the state. So hopefully I'll say more about it in my debate, but I believe this is one of the intentions of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14384	Thank you. We have a response to the replica of colleague Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14385	When I mentioned the tax administration, I didn't dare say they wanted to use that data, but I expressed hope and the possibility that it might be subtle because I don't want to interfere with a resort that isn't theirs, that's finance, something else. And in order for that to really be useful, such a record, then just the introduction of that system that the employer has to make the application we come up with an interest that we share and that is the essence of that proposal. And whether or not the tax administration, which has the right to the database and such facts, will use it, I want to believe that. That's all.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14386	Thank you. Next on behalf of SDP Representatives Club Vesna Fabiančić-Krisjanic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14387	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a bill that represents a prerequisite to combat the various abuses we have enjoyed over the past years, the abuses that have cost Croatia dearly. For years we spoke and witnessed numerous irregularities and malfeasances when it came to reporting residences and residences. It has often happened that people have IDs with a fake address, and the Home Office cannot log them out of that address without their personal request. The applicable law does not provide an option to delete or log out persons from the registration by automated or official duty. Even when it is unequivocally established that a person has moved out of Croatia or that he does not reside in a registered address, the current law does not know the possibility of automatic erasing or checking out persons from police records under official duty. So we have before us a bill that has been trying too long to pass. While it has been known for years that the regulation of this issue is a prerequisite for preventing the abuse of rights arising from residence and residence, the prerequisite for the settlement and bringing into order of the voters list was not a political will to be a credible state with credible institutions. This claim is accompanied by a number of data. In fact, around 190 thousand Croatian citizens took out their passport abroad, and did not produce their ID card along with the passport. And along with their passport, except they haven't made their ID card, although they have now registered residence in Croatia. Of these 190,000 Croatian citizens, an I.D. expired for 60,000 people, only 3800 of whom requested extension, while 40,000 people never asked for a ID card. On the other hand, the ministry assumes there are 300-500 extra names on the list without diaspora. Among them are persons who have never lived in the Republic of Croatia but have been reported, people who once lived in Croatia have moved away and never checked out. We remember I believe all the expensive hits of local elections when the hit was the villages of Dusina in Vrgorac and Vinjana in Imotsko. In Dusina, 404 adult persons with the right to choose were registered at one of the addresses of Dusina bb, while in Imotsko, the address of Vinjani lower bb was up to 820. This law is important because its implementation can lead to a list of voters who will be able to compare themselves with the census and we hope that the next local elections will be more regular because every Croatian citizen has the right to vote. The voter list's problem is not a problem with the right to vote but rather with the right to vote. As far as local elections are concerned, all Croatian citizens do not have the right to vote but only those who have residence in a local self-government unit. The problem with voter lists is the regularity of local elections in certain municipalities and cities. What I am saying is the problem of regularity, and on the other hand, the question of fictitious voters is not only a question of the voters list, because people, i.e. citizens and citizens in the Republic of Croatia, did not report that they would be on the list, but many also signed up to exercise some rights on the basis of a residence application. And therefore, it is really important to pass this law which is now in the first reading and which will solve some of the misunderstandings by the second reading and respect certain proposals that will naturally arise from this debate. The fact that we could hear at some working bodies sessions, of course, also in the previous discussion of colleagues of Lesar and Terminology such as permanent and temporary residence and the fact that the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has, in its Article 45th, a termology of residence, I believe that through the debate, it will crystallise the optimal and legal solution and that, in the second reading of the bill and the final text of the bill, we will resolve a certain doubt. What is extremely important is that this law creates preconditions for the reduction of chaos in which there is now no possibility, as I have already stated, of a person's residence without his personal request. The conditions are created that it will not be a rule but an exception that a person who has nothing to do with a registered residence because he does not reside in the registered address still has an address in which he does not reside and exercise the rights resulting from that residence. The residence and residence records of citizens must correspond to the real state of residence of citizens. The residence is based on a series of rights provided for in specific regulations, social welfare rules, health care rules, tax regulations and others. The record in a regulated state always corresponds to the real state. This bill is a prerequisite for a regulated state and the credibility of its institutions and therefore we will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14388	Thank you, too. We have a replica on your exhibit. Representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14389	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd just like to comment on something that's falling into my eyes, and that's what happened on the occasion of previous discussions about this law. In fact, I agree with the need to put order in the record of what we previously called residence, absolutely. And if we don't decide that they'll be allowed along with double citizenship and double residences, then order should be. But it is interesting why SDP and this side are always discussed whenever they remember it and always mention only the example of Vinja and Drusina. So that area around Imotski, and you never remember the area around Benkovec, in the Knin area. For example, I will provide information that Benkovac has 16,000 people in the list of voters, and there are fewer than 10,000 in the census. So that's almost half, more than a third less. And as I advocate to address the situation there around Imotski, it should also be mentioned that in other areas we have this problem mainly in local elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14390	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Here are my colleagues Fabiančić-Kryžanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14391	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, fellow Lovrin, let's always remember that because you'll agree with me the numbers are really impressive and then they've really stayed and remembered. But that wouldn't have turned out to be the only case I'm going to tell you the case from the area of the City of Velika since it was one of my questions in one of the current hours. So we have a village called Gornja Lomnica on which 20 people on the street with a home number that doesn't even exist in the list of voters are reported today. That street ends with house number 15, and 20 people are registered at home number 24a. And home number 15 is the last house on that street. Or the case where it is here at the address and today's deputy mayor of Zagreb County who has a residence in Velika Gorica in the apartment is registered 20 persons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14392	Thank you. Next up for debate on behalf of the SDSS Representatives Club, colleague Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14393	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, dear colleagues and fellow MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. First of all, let me share one impression of the pleasure of listening to part of my colleagues talking about the dry parts of the body or those who might need to get dry and remind them that they are not only hands and which can be dried, but that there are other parts of the body that can be dried or atrophy and that fellow Boro people are not aware that they have been atrophysed. I hope you'll take more care of that when you answer your question. As far as the subject goes, Benkovac first. counterpart Lovrin says that in Benkovac, which has been neglected unlike some other environments, there are more voters than residents. Yes, colleagues Lovrin, unfortunately it is the same in Benkovec and Obrovec and in many other municipalities and environments in the areas of Zadar County, but also in Sibenik-Knin and Ličko-senjska and Sisak-Moslavina and Karlovačka and Požeko-Slavonska and Bjelovar-Bilogorska, etc. Benkovac, unfortunately, is no special exception unless it is an exception to the fact that I was born and went to school in that area, and you come from Zadar which is 20 kilometers west of that same Benkovec. It is clear why there are more voters in Benkovac than residents. Because those who once lived in the Benkovec area could not return after they had escaped, because their homes were busy or destroyed until we started returning or rebuilding them in 2003, 2004, 2005. So the reasons aren't the same. In the difference that's mentioned, and now let me say something about the very thing. So the problem is that we have more voters than we have according to the voters list, we have more voters than we have according to the census. And not since yesterday, not since 2003, not since 2007, not since 2011. This is the consequence of the policy that began in 1991, 1992, and since 1992, when we started applying the Law on Citizenship, this policy has had its conjecture. We colleagues and colleagues passed a law that we applied more according to the principle of yus sanguinis than by the principle of yus solo. We have applied more in principle who is a member of the Croatian people than by the principle who lives in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. So it happened that those living in the territory of the Republic of Croatia could not get citizenship, and those living outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia received Croatian citizenship without difficulty. And that process lasted years. And as a result, we have received that we have people who are enrolled in Croatian citizenship, but are also enrolled in the citizenship of other states of Bosnia and Herzegovina, Montenegro, Serbia, Slovenia, Australia, Canada, the United States. It was part of the policy at the time particularly painful in relations between Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. This was how state policy was understood, and this was done in interpreting the Law on Citizenship. At the same time, the registration of people entering Croatian citizenship was ongoing. Between 1993 and 2007, about 5 hundred thousand people were enrolled in Croatian citizenship. According to the record, according to the data we had so that in 2009, we could say something about when some stopped us from accusing us that we from the SDSS were responsible for not adopting the Housing Act, or about the possibility of erasing people who were fictitiously enrolled in the Croatian voters' list and have a fictitious residence in the Republic of Croatia. Among these 500 thousand there are no members of the Benkovec area or other similar municipalities but are mainly or mainly members of the Croatian people from neighbouring countries or other parts of the world. At the same time between 2003 and 2007, the difference between the number of voters and the number of inhabitants was 377 thousand 955. In 2007, this difference was 434 thousand and 110. So, for more than 50 grand in just four years. Therefore, some 100,000 people were enrolled in Croatian citizenship between 2002 and 2007. The mahom of the people of BiH. We know and in what areas, we know and at what times and we know and for what purpose, unfortunately. And if necessary, we can talk about it. But I don't suppose we're gathered here today for that, but we're gathered here to pass the law that we're about to settle. At the same time, between 2002 and 2007, 50,000 people were wiped out from Croatian citizenship. We also know from which areas, and we know under what circumstances. So, it could have been deleted by the old law when it was wanted, but the whole problem is that we wanted to continue the enrollment policy and it continued so that we got the paradox that year after year we lose the population, from decade to decade we lose the number of residents, and we get the number of voters. From year to year, statistics show that our population is dropping, and our number of voters is growing. That is not what those of Benkovec are responsible for, for their number is not increased in the number of voters, nor in the number of inhabitants, unfortunately, nor in those who represent them. Because their power and their influence are negligible both in this Parliament and in this country. But that thing has got to the point where it needs to be cleared up. Now, how? So, we agreed to do it years ago. I'm talking about the SDSS counseling club. And we agree that this law is passed. We only have two suggestions regarding the proposal the government made to the Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We think, Mr. Deputy Minister, and also colleagues and colleagues, we think that we should give a period of 3 days that people can, or that an official within 3 working days can establish the accuracy of the data given in the submitted application. The second concerns Article 12(6), which was already discussed by his colleague, Lesar, about temporary work abroad. The part concerning the persons covered by the reconstruction or housing programme would only be suggested that the item, paragraph 6, reads: "So, if they are covered by the programme of return of the reconstruction or housing of refugees and exiles to the Republic of Croatia." In the end, I would add one more thing, even though I wasn't an advocate of that principle that's been applied since '92. the years on which, by principle, the moss by the principle of yus sanguinis, by the principle of kinship by blood, or kinship by imaginary blood, ethnic or religious origin, I think it should be considerate of the fate of these people. And regardless of what I'm talking about now, I'm not talking about those from Benkovac even though there's one category and another, I'm talking about people who are either emigrated or populated from BiH or other parts of BiH. These people should be given a chance to be protected in their own right. They must not and must not be sanctioned with a sword or a feather’s move because they have found themselves in circumstances that they have not controlled but on occasions that others have given them. And I hope, Mr. Deputy, that in that matter, as well as in other matters, you will bring adequate rules of conduct into this so that there will be no arbitration or there will be no overcomprehension of the whole matter, no matter who it is. Because, unfortunately, Croatia is suffering from the loss of the population and it does not seem and there is no chance that I can see them right now that they can be created either quickly, easily, or in the long run. And for this reason we support the adoption of this law, to introduce order into the census, because what can be seen in the border areas of Imotsky or someone else can be seen in Vukovar Street in Zagreb. On certain numbers you have 7, 8 families registered to only one apartment. So it's not just one location or another. So, unfortunately, it's in many places. That needs to be resolved. There are people who do not need it, there are people who do not have a choice but simply use the question of other opportunities to serve. For this reason, we will support this bill. We propose these two amendments and propose, if possible, to adopt not if possible but we believe that it is necessary to adopt a regulation to provide guidance, sublegal implementing acts that will follow the spirit of the law, respect the Constitution, guaranteed the right to freedom of movement, to choose a place of residence and thus enable people to choose a permanent place of residence or a temporary place of residence according to their will and not according to the administrative will of anyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14394	Thank you. We have three replicas on your exhibit. Representative Boro Grubisic first reported. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14395	Thank you very much. Dear Pupovac, you later broke into the hall and got a little bit of a misrepresentation of my paraphrase on Mr. Milanovic's statement, and you know which, therefore, may have dried his hand if Slavonia left, and we were discussing excise duties. You can see that you were not here when the debate on excise duties was so now on my debate in which I pointed out the unfavourable changes to the Excise Taxation Act so unfavourable for Slavonia in this regard I was paraphrasing and quoting Mr Milanovic using it only instead of drying the Latin word hypotrophy and atrophy. So I'm surprised to see this kind of effusion bile about it. But to actually get to the right replica. I didn't know here you said it yourself, or you accused the SDSS, so you and the Vatican together prevented the Law of residence, so I don't understand that you and your coalition partner HDZ didn't pass this law, and that in 2002-2007 it was the year and you had a vice-president so you could have prevented that increase of 100 thousand people in a period of 5, 6 years and again of eradicating 50,000 but there you were. Now that it's true and it's not hard to figure it out. You yourself said that when it comes to Benkovci, the census showed that there are 10,000 residents there, and 16 thousand voters who once lived in that area, I don't think I should add anything other than this once lived.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14396	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14397	Thank you, Mr. President. Speaking of these terms, like atrophy, I'm going to add the term amnesia to that. So it may be that you have the right to atrophy and it may be that you have the right to amnesia, but I'm not going to give it to myself and I know well who it is and how many years it has managed this unfortunate Slavonia, and who should actually be dryed by the hand and who was that authentic HDZ that managed that Slavonia and who brought it there and who is now selling the fog to us that someone should have their hand dried. Wasn't that you? Weren't you the authentic HDZ? Wasn't it you who brought Slavonia to where you brought her, and now you want to fix her by accusing others? Of course you can, but you can't put us in a position to tell us we don't remember that. We remember very well.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14398	Thank you. We have the next replica of Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14399	Thank you very much. My colleague, Pupovac, I mentioned Benkovac exclusively because of my desire for objectivity. I don't know why she bothers you so much because for months, they've been arguing twice about that law, they've always mentioned these unfortunate Vinjans. No one has ever remembered that we have the same problem in the area of Benkovec and Knin. Well, you know it well, so you could mention it. They said the reasons were different. They're not different. Because these Croats too, so that we understand each other and that it is clear in Benkovac and Knin that it is about citizens of Serbian nationality who are Croatian citizens. In the case of Vinjan, the Croats from BiH and those Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina mainly came to Croatia for Serb aggression on BiH and were refugees and exiled. All of them might come back if they could go back to that Bosnian saviour but because there is no restoration program there for Croats then they have no place to go and they can't go back. As for the renovation programme in Croatia and you yourself participated in this you know how many houses were renovated, what all Croatian government and Croatian state did for it but many of these houses stand empty today and did not settle. Sociologically, people go to a different environment, start families, get jobs, etc. But the reasons are very, very similar, and I've only advocated equal access to all these people. You said there that some who were not in Croatia were easily given citizenship, and some who could not reach that citizenship in Croatia. You probably meant citizens of Serbian nationality who could not get Croatian citizenship. I, for one, have different experiences. I personally know cases where Croats from Montenegro came across Hungary with a visa because they could not reach the Croatian passport and Serbs who were citizens of the Republic of Croatia received these passports. And it is not the small power of citizens of Serbian nationality in these areas of Knin and Benkovec because it is precisely by the number in the voters' list that they exercise their rights to the number of representatives in representative bodies and executive power. So they also have deputy mayors in these counties, etc., etc. Which you can tell from the list. [[Thank you, fellow Members, time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14400	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14401	Representative Lovrin's colleagues, exiled Croats from Posavina, I am sorry as much as the exiled Serbs from Northern Dalmatia, and I am also telling you that the pro-active policies for the return of these people to the Posavina area are unfortunately not available. If there was, maybe there'd be more refurbished houses. But many have come and told them these are your houses, houses that were not theirs in the area of Kordun in the area of that same Benkovec. Those who told them this have wronged them and those whose houses they are. And I'm not here to upset those memories, and I'm not here to prevent this law from being passed, but I've done everything I can to make it happen. But, fellow Lovrin, if you do not miss people who are domicile and without whom this land will not be what it was and cannot be what it was and is not what it was and is therefore abandoned, unprocessed and therefore does not live except for your Zadar, does not live either the Obrovac or the Polac or... They don't, because there aren't any who can breathe their lives with those who are inhabited there. [[You don't understand.]] I understand my job, I understand my job, I understand how to help it happen, not to continue the policy that has been going on until recently, which is that these people can't live there.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14402	Thanks, buddy. Time. We still have the last line. Comrade Ante Babic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14403	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Pupovac, you have now stated in your exhibition that you know of the 100,000 people from BiH who are enrolled in Croatian citizenship from BiH. I don't know why, and I'm guessing if you're alluding it's because of the election. I will remind you of the latest local elections specifically in my municipality, but nobody from BiH voted, we are a border municipality. But it costs time and money to enrol in citizenship under the applicable laws. I'll tell you. Unlike Croatia, Serbia, according to this law on diaspora and Serbs in the region, this summer, a Serbian consul from Rijeka came and asked people to sign up for free for Serbian citizenship, or for closer co-operation with the Serbian queen, which I welcome. As for Serbs in the Imot region, you know very well that this co-existence is good and that there are no bigger problems. What particularly offended me today in the debate, I am sorry that I did not listen to my previous colleague, and it was about Vinjan, or Vrgorec. There's a big pump of media that doesn't have its basis because it's just not good. It is not good that this is not true because at the time a large number of municipalities in the Imotski and Vrgorec did not have designated streets or home numbers, and that is probably why. I don't doubt that. But the Croatian state certainly had to take care of every Croatian from New Zealand to Canada, from Norway to South Africa, and especially about the Croats in BiH, which is actually our constitutional obligation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14404	Thank you, too. We've got a reply to the replica, buddy Pupovac, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14405	I agree with you, dear colleague. I also think that the Croats from BiH suffered a lot and suffered a lot, which because of the war circumstances, because of the policies they had fought during the war period and the wartime. I understand that among them there is no great interest in elections in Croatia more than there has been and that they should not be given hate and Stigma because they were in the list of voters in Croatia. That's what I said in my final statement, and I'd be against it if any kind of hatred or bad attitudes were directed towards them. They didn't deserve it, they weren't actors, they were the only ones the actors had in these circumstances, and therefore they should be treated carefully and given the opportunity to decide after this law was passed as their interest and as their right. And in that sense, you will not have in me one who will understand that these people took something they had no right to. They got that chance. Someone gave them that chance. What we need to do now is to clear things up, that there are no dead souls, that no one can manipulate it. In the '90s, there was one logic, the logic of one policy. Since 2003, there has been another logic, not one policy but one electoral interest. And that we understand each other. They were not enrolled from 2002 to 2007 because someone followed the logic that President Tudjman had but because he wanted to have control over the electoral census and because of this it happened and it compromised the whole thing. And for that reason you have my sympathy and my support and those who have gone through it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14406	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club Davorin Mlakar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14407	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Already outside the clubs, other colleagues spoke, and I think the general agreement is that we all think, believe and want to change the Law on residence or what is now called the Law on residence because of the problems he has brought in practice, because of the influence on other regulations, the laws that are with him and because he indirectly gives the possibility to acquire certain rights that should be more precise and more precisely regulated. We agree, too, and we have also suggested that the Law on Residency be changed, that it be modern and that all of those problems be resolved, the complications that he has brought in and because of which here and today we listen have expressed great doubts about adequate work and state bodies, and then all those who in some way have linked their official records to the residence records. What we think is not good in front of the HDZ Club, we think it is not good to change this law in a proposed way. The proposed way of first changing the name of the law and the Law on residence and residence changes to the Law on residence, completely erases residence as an institute. We assume, because we do not have an explanation of another species, that the applicant was guided by the Constitutional Court's decision because this law has already been subject to an assessment of constitutionality, so the Constitutional Court is in its decision, let me just quote this in the Constitutional Court's assessment that the Court first stresses that the Constitution does not know the term of residence but only residence, so under the constitutional term of residence it is also necessary to subsidise the legal term of residence in the meaning of a permanent residence in which the citizen intends to live, etc. This is all true except the fact that the applicant lost sight of the amendment to our Constitution, which is now, after the last amendments in Article 45, introduced by the concept of residence even in several paragraphs of this article, about residence and the rights that citizens who have residence in or outside the Republic of Croatia have in view of the possibility of voting in parliamentary and presidential elections. So it seems to us, and given the legal theory that knows the concepts of residence and residence, it is extremely inappropriate now to change the term of residence to a permanent residence, and then instead of the place of residence so far to introduce the term of temporary residence. When you have already decided to make such amendments to the law, if you do not accept the remarks well-intentioned that there is no longer any reason to throw out residence as an institute under this law, then at least you should have consistently implemented those amendments, so if you spoke in Article 2 of the definition of permanent residence, then you had to define your temporary residence differently under paragraph 2. Because if there is no longer the will needed to reside in a particular area to make it a place of residence, then there can be no shortage of that will to be what will regulate the concept of temporary residence but you must find some other argument or reason to define that other institute. In any case, we also think about because of these arguments which we have stated that there was no reason to amend the Law on residence and to change the Institute of residence, to translate it into a permanent residence, especially in view of the fact that in transitional provisions you have indicated that the residence of the Institute is in many laws, that it will lead to confusion and in legal traffic and in the application of certain rights in view of changing these terms. What is said in the debate of some colleagues, and I think I have to say for the sake of the Croatian public because it hurt me in preparing for this exhibition is the fact that one policy has been found here since 1992 dictated the issue of citizenship, the issue of residence, and then the list of voters and how this policy has been changing over time and now there are more arguments to support changes, or new policy directions. I would therefore like to point out that the law that is being amended today in 1991, the law that the Republic of Croatia in its independence took over from the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the law that created problems and disproportionateness between the number of voters and the number of inhabitants only then was it not politically important to discuss it daily. And it's a well-known thing, and we all know that statistically in all regions or at the level of the entire country, 25% of the population is employed is more than there are voters. And it's not true that politics in 1992, third or fifth dictated what the voters' lists would look like. I'll only tell you one classic example that still exists in our voter lists. If it's a person in '65. in the year she moved from the Republic of Croatia to Australia, and most often or almost never checked out in her police administration and from 1965 to today lives in Australia she is still staying at the address where she was until '65. years and in the list of voters for that election unit. Therefore, the problems that have arisen are 50 or 60 years old because of the bad law, since you were unable to remove anyone from the residence by official duty, not even from the list of voters. That's the basic problem. The problem just multiplied with age as they flowed. And that's a problem that can be solved, but we believe not in the way the government suggested. Because in several provisions on what you need to contribute as documentation to report now this new institute of permanent residence of 14 basic data that you have to provide, as mentioned in Article 9. After that, you have item 2 of the same article, which says, "Homeless people at the time of reporting the contact address." This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This Article shall provide the competent authority with information on the contact address and the name and last name of the natural person or the name and place of the legal person at which they declare the contact address and their consent or the number of the mailbox. If you are carefully reading this article, this means that unlike those who are not homeless, homeless people have to report everything they have, their home address, and their contact address. It's pretty much agreeable you'll agree to a pointless provision. And instead of being logical at all and encouraging the possibility of a simple application for those who don't have any addresses, she further complicated it for them. What is probably a key issue of amendments to this law, and this law will also have consequences for the Law on lists of voters and for other social rights that you acquire from the basis of residence or what is now called permanent residence, that is, Article 12 and the possibility to delete, by official duty from residence or permanent residence, a person who is found not to be resident there. However, the rule that the police have the right to delete a person who is found not to be in a particular address has two exceptions. One is on temporary work abroad in education and those covered, persons covered by the reconstruction or housing programme and their property has not yet been renovated, returned or otherwise taken care of in the Republic of Croatia. Our question is, and why are they alone and whether in view of the principles and articles of the Constitution that guarantee the equality of all citizens before the law why there are only these two categories for which it is not otherwise worth the universal right to be removed from residence by official duty. We therefore believe that this law will once again suffer from constitutional control, and in the past an article has been declared unconstitutional that prevented, or violated the freedom of movement and the choice of residence of persons concerned by the Law on residence. That trap wasn't avoided by your bill either. You are talking again about a permanent stay, and the address where you must be located and report, and it is contrary to the Constitution guaranteed the right to freedom of movement and to choose a place of residence. Therefore, even if all of this did not exist, there will again be the same reason why already once one of the articles of this law was declared unconstitutional it is possible to do so again. So all of this we have made as observations we have tried and through the parliamentary committees to suggest that, instead of first reading this law, this law goes in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure in the previous debate. In the previous debate of what we have the right and the possibility to ask for the opinion of certain institutions, associations which are concerned that they make their proposals and see how to make this law acceptable to all groups, and not to favour certain groups of people, individual groups, even those who not only here were talking about the fact that we have accidentally received people into Croatian citizenship, I believe that it is a real lapus and I do not believe that we have received by accident anyone into Croatian citizenship and that they will all have equal rights both to retaining their residence and residence and to equal treatment before the law. This law will not ensure equal treatment for all Croatian citizens, and therefore we think that it would be better to refer this law to the previous debate instead of first reading, so when we gather all the opinions for a brief period of time, we only had to illustrate some of the problems that this law brings. Someone talked about both Croats from BiH and those registered at addresses, which is insignificant in view of the number. And just for an illustration to make it clear to everyone except all those places that were said to be the problem address it's not just this law because let's just say with addresses we had a problem in the town of Hvar. In the town of Hvar, municipal, or city government has not resolved the issue of streets and home numbers, and therefore the problem of the address of people living in Hvar still exists, and you can't classify them, I hope, not knowingly or well in any of these categories, and you will find a problem in each of the next elections because they will all be in the town of Hvar with a total number without a certain address and home number. We therefore propose once again that the Government think carefully about the consequences that this law can cause, instead of first reading, to give up the first reading, to the law in the previous debate and only when it collects opinions from relevant groups and institutions, to decide what text of the law will appear before Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14408	Thank you, Your Honor. We've got two lines reported. The first replica is the respected representative of Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14409	Thank you, Vice President. To be honest, with most of Mr. Mlakar's debate, I agree, but I didn't understand one sentence, so if he could explain it to me in the replica. The sentence reads, "We have also suggested that the law be changed." Here, that's not a clear line to me. What does that mean we are? Were you an 8-year-old opposition, so someone didn't give you or you were in power, so you were prevented by foreign forces? Which means exactly the sentence, here I'd like to beg.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14410	Replication response, the esteemed representative of the Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14411	Thank you very much for asking that question. ... [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14412	Come on, come on, come on, come on,
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14413	I'll be right there, take it easy. Thank you very much for asking. A government where I was a minister, and unfortunately I wasn't eight years old or lucky, but only 2.5 proposed the law. Mr. Lesar said he was in his first reading. The law has never received the necessary majority in parliament to vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14414	Thank you very much. And another replica, the esteemed representative of Damir Romec. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14415	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister of State. I had no intention of replicating my fellow Mlakar, but I tried to write, and you caught yourself in your discussion of the most termological differences whether a permanent residence, a temporary residence. Believe me, or there was a better place to live and a place to stay. I claim that 95% of the population of the Republic of Croatia does not distinguish their termological residence from their residence. This is better. The terminologically is a clearer permanent residence and temporary residence. Furthermore, in your debate you mentioned the bad law of the SFRY as many as I managed to count twice. I ask the question, I agree with the observation of my fellow laborers, who told you not to change that law? Did you have any problems? On the other hand, I would also point to demographic illogicalities, specifically in one very important example of a local self-government unit such as the city of Vinkovci where you have 35 thousand voters, these citizens, and 32,000 voters, which is impossible. This means that you have 10% of the population less than 18 years old or a population that is not adult. That really doesn't make any sense. So these corrections will also correct the demographic anomalies that exist, which, of course, are shown in statistical reports, and in any case, will solve the over-recorded number of voters that exist and which, of course, is not logical because I quote that somewhere around 25% of the population is listed in the voter lists than there are. Here, correct me.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14416	Replica's response, the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14417	Thank you very much. I never said this, and I couldn't say that 25% of voters are listed in the census because that's not true. I said the following, statistically in every country on average is 25% more of the population than there are voters, if you followed. Secondly, I don't know what's more convenient for you when you've already replicated and asked so many questions, does it make sense to you that something is called a permanent residence and a temporary residence or that it's called a residence and a residence I won't touch in your logic. I told you that the legal theory knows not from yesterday but the last 70 years the concept of residence as where you reside and you have the will to stay or stay there all the time. So it's not just a moment for you to live there, it's also the will to stay there all the time. For the purpose of staying, that will was neither crucial nor important was just the fact that you were somewhere. And that's why I said in this law if that will is no longer a decisive element for a permanent stay then even a lack of will can't be an element for a temporary stay, then you can throw that will out and say it permanently stays because I don't know how to exercise your social, cultural, professional rights and for a temporary stay find another definition that makes sense because the definition of a temporary residence has been searched out from the former definition of residence that you have thrown out of the law, or you are not personally. And I didn't hear the third question. You had something else. ... All right, then. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14418	Thank you very much. Let's discuss it further. On behalf of the HNS club, respected representative Nada Turina Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14419	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister with an associate. Dear colleagues and colleagues. So here at the HNS we would say we finally came up with a bill that treats our court very well this issue and we would have nothing to do with the situation that we have in these records, or these huge differences between the census and the voter list and the residence records, or the occasional residence, that now, according to our new proposal, the bill is going to go, to finally resolve this, to finally introduce order into these lists. We, as a liberal position in this House, are, of course, committed primarily to the fundamental rights of each individual, and these fundamental rights of course include the right to choose a place of residence guaranteed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and the freedom of movement of the individual as well as the total of all other human freedoms and rights treated by our Constitution. However, what has often and unfortunately happened in the proposals of certain laws, including in this law that is now in force, which is that the right has been misused. So one is right and the other is something called cheating on the state or abuse of what the law or what the Constitution gives an individual as a chance as freedom as a right. This issue is in all the debates that were back 15 years, perhaps more and more politicised as we see it, and today in the Assembly, this issue is exclusively used in these political ones, I would say the purposes, or in the way that it comes forward with multiple sides to impact individuals' emotions or members of individual national groups of Croats, above all in the diaspora and then, of course, some national minorities, in order to homogenize them in a way that they support a particular political option. It is absolutely unacceptable to HNS in such a way to discuss this topic. This topic is primarily for us an economic theme, an economic theme, this is a social theme, this is a cultural theme, this is a civilizational reach, not a matter of counting blood cells, some of them that live slightly across the border in some area outside the Republic of Croatia. I personally come from the neighborhood and it occurred to me when I listened to these discussions where we have no problems with the list of voters regarding the reporting of persons living outside our borders who have a registered residence in the Republic of Croatia at the same time have a right to vote, but we have another problem. There is an abuse of our citizens living in the area of the Republic of Croatia who have been reported as a permanent residence in the area of the local self-government unit in the area where I come from, and this is the area of the Primorje-Gorski County, so you have cases that, for example, on the basis of the abuse of this law, people are applying to avoid the obligation to the state. Not to mention that after each election, all of our citizens are accused of being insufficiently agile when they join ownership positions or elections, and that the defeating from year to year is becoming worse but defeating the results of going to elections among other things because most of the reported people in these premises do not live in these areas. We make a whole series of important decisions at local level at regional level and also at national level in social policy, in cultural policy, in health policy, in the rights that we give to citizens who are constantly registered precisely on the basis of this residence data. So then, in some units of local self-government, just because people are constantly reported in their spaces to large areas of the weekend settlement where it is necessary to build road infrastructure, draining, water supply, means a whole series of problems about what these data are actually a complete forgeries and what that category of residence was being misused. She's abused herself in some other places. Say you have if you are constantly registered on the island of Krk free of charge bridge, if you are naturally registered on the island of Rab or Losinj you have special advantages for riding by ferry, you do not naturally pay taxes on the cottage because it is not a cottage where you are but is registered as a permanent residence or your family home. I really hope that, I think, first of all, it would be a very urgent matter, and we think at the HNS that this could have gone freely and into an emergency procedure, that we were getting a lot better, and I was shocked to attend a meeting of the Justice Committee by a colleague who made it quite clear to us who lobbyed to hitchhike this law at the time of HDZ authorities. I've been really shocked, I won't say it again, I think my colleague Grbin said something about it. So there was a will, but apparently in this country, someone else is trying to create our destiny. I think that with this bill we are finally taking on some important levers with which we are going to address very important issues for our citizens, we are finally coming up with some permanent, quality solutions, and in this sense, the HNS will support the proposal for this law in the first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14420	Thank you, too, Your Honor. We have a single replica reported. Honorable representative Ante Babic and Replic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14421	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's my colleague Turina-Đurić said that this law for you is also law, economic law, a civilization step, and so I'm going to say something to you and Mr. Minister Bauku. This should be known that a large number of Croats must enter their residence in a passport outside Croatia. It is a foreign exchange figure that accounts for 3.7% of the GDP of the Republic of Croatia. If you think about what BiH Croats will do or what will happen if they have to, and they will have to withdraw their savings from the Republic of Croatia, and they are now holding the savings in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14422	We're going with the next debate on behalf of the HSU Club and the esteemed representative, Zeljko Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14423	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. By reading this Proposal for a Law on the residence of citizens, I must express my satisfaction that its application will finally solve a lot of problems. In order for it to function as we all expect, a certain discipline of citizens as well as supervision of certain institutions is needed. We have often read, especially in black chronicles, how a person cannot be found at the registered address or cannot be served with a subpoena. It was a problem for the police, for the judiciary, but also for the mailmen. In the current Law on residence and residence of citizens, certain provisions were not in accordance with the Constitution and were abolished in 2000. The law did not provide for the possibility of checking out a person’s residence without her personal request, and there were many cases that persons were registered at an address they did not live in, that they even have documents with an address they did not live in, but that they are exercising their rights, health care or secured social care. A particular problem is lists of voters where up to 100 people were found in one address, often from neighbouring countries. Such machinations benefited from such citizens who were recipients of social assistance, maternity benefits, pensions and other benefits. Since so far there has been little will to address the problem of residence as well as the problems of the list of voters is that it has so far been appropriate for someone. It is unlikely that there are far more potential voters in any country in the world than there are in the country or even the deceased. And there were rare deaths on HZMO payrolls as well. Citizens who did not report changes to their residence or residence committed an offence that could not be sanctioned because they were at an unknown address. The concepts of permanent and temporary residence, which is also used in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, are now being introduced. In addition to a written statement by citizens that they have settled in a specific place, there is an obligation on a particular address for persons who provide accommodation services to report to the competent authority the residence of persons who provide accommodation services for more than three months. I guess a lot of high penalties for offenders, both citizens and persons providing accommodation services will be enough motive for this law to be implemented and to solve the problems of residence and voter lists. There's a misunderstanding in the law, but I also have a personal recommendation. In Article 3(5), it is not clear how long a person can stay abroad and continue to stay in the Republic of Croatia for a period of time. Perhaps it was necessary to prescribe after which deadline i.e. after how many years of continuous temporary stay abroad the person stops staying in the Republic of Croatia. The question also arises whether there can be abuses of the landlord's consent when he points out the application for his householder or more. Perhaps the landlord should attach the property list and thus reduce the number of checks by police employees. It would be good to use up-to-date data on permanent residence records not only in voters' lists but also in all other bodies that keep registers such as HZZO, HZMO, Tax Administration and other users. It is time to finally exploit the information possibilities and once the data entered uses wherever it is needed. Because of all the good that's being solved by this law, HSU will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14424	Thank you, too. Next on behalf of the HDSSB club, counterpart Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14425	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here a colleague spoke earlier about the fact that, by means of information and everything we have introduced in the Republic of Croatia, public administration information can be used for the purpose, so for the purpose of precise data, to obtain accurate data regarding the number of people I will not tell because this was carried out by the list of residents of the State Statistics Office. But there are other instruments that can be numbered, and this is what is most important and what is mentioned here is the number of voters in the Republic of Croatia. So here, one of the examples that we cited in, today we had a session of the Committee on Croatians outside Croatia and one of these data is the OIB. When I compared the number of those who possess a personal identification number or OIB and those who are, therefore, they have whatever you want to say residence or permanent residence, we might find some sort of syntagm, some sort of an accessory, so that those who are for a place of residence and those who are for a place of residence might be satisfied. So it turned out to be less than 218,000, so it would be said to be able to erase 218,000 people through persons. So there's no 218000 of them. They don't have an OIB. This means they do not make any transactions of financial, banking, any in the Republic of Croatia. So they are not in the Republic of Croatia, they would say seemingly so. It's one of the segments. And now at the very beginning of this debate there were words that this was the third happiness. It's not the third happiness, or you can ask the question of who it's for. It's not exactly for everyone and it's not all as idyllic as you want and a certain number in the club discussion to show. Why is that? Why is it not the third happiness and why the HDSSB club is not happy for all, so it will not support this legislative proposal but also proposes that the Committee that today was sitting for Croats outside Croatia that this law be placed also in three readings with a broad, broad social debate and associations and all those interested in this matter. In view of the law on residence and residence of citizens, this is what is now called the temporary residence of citizens, it is precisely taken over in a crisis situation in 1991, the second year from the former SFRY system, which is contrary in fact to Article 32. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which mentions the place of residence and not the place of residence, is in the Constitution. Furthermore, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia confirmed by its decision of 2000, the National Journal not to quote which number, number 11, the non-compliance of that law with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And I already don't know how many attempts to change the Law of Residence as it was then, here's this new Law on residence and temporary residence. So, these 12 years since the Constitutional Court's decision, no new law has been passed. Is that what Peja Grbin Vatican said? Look, the Vatican is very interested in not changing a country in Croatia's residence law, it has very strong interests in the Vatican. I think he had much more serious interests when he confessed to Croatia's first, and that's what Mr. Grbin forgot to say in his discussion in 1991. Furthermore, it was mentioned here that the coalition partner was valuing or overcoming the coalition partner of all parties in the Republic of Croatia, whether the HDZ, or the Kukuriku coalition, or HDZ and its coalition, that it was determined against the amendment of the Law on residence. Now that we have heard there are no more obstacles, and there is no obstacle because this new Law on residence states that they are exempt or protected from the law which is not even a little in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia on the equality of citizens under the law. So, it says that this law does not actually apply to persons covered by a reconstruction or housing programme and are located abroad, and their property has not yet been renovated, returned or otherwise taken care of in the Republic of Croatia. But what about those who have been restored to the house, whose housing issue has been resolved and returned, and the facilities stand empty in the area of the soft belly discussed by a fellow Pupovac, it is not here. So, in the area from Gračac to the north of Korenica, Udbina, Gline, Iron or former Vrgina bridge, Vojnić, etc. I was walking the other day from the sea D1 road so I turned over Vojnic and Iron to Topusco, Glina, Petrinja and Sisak, on Popovač and for Slavonski Brod my boat and saw in the Vrgin Bridge the building, the apartment building completely empty. It was night. There's no light in it, but there's electricity, power supply restored. Who are these people who occupy living space, and they are not in the Republic of Croatia, but not three months a year. They will, therefore, have the right to achieve their place of residence, thus also remaining rights and voting rights in the Republic of Croatia. And how many of those are there? And it is not true that the difference in Benkovac between 16000 citizens who are on the list of voters compared to 10 who are currently in Benkovac for the sole reason of that difference again, so the number of those who come to the polls. Well, there are dead people out there, so there's a reduction in the number of people everywhere. Slavonia lost, so 5 Slavonian counties lost 100,000 inhabitants in 5 Slavonian counties from 2001 to 2011. So 20000, Vukovar-Srijemska 20000, Požeško-Slavonska 10000, Virovitičko-Podravska and more, Osijek-Baranja also. It is not, therefore, the reason why someone deleted himself from the record or was discriminated against by anyone. In addition, I must say that indeed minority rights compared to highly democratically developed countries in Europe are minority rights in the Republic of Croatia on far higher standards than in France and any other, in France where there is no national minority at all. So we know that Baski lives, we know that the Germans live, we know that the Valons live, too. Well, there's no national minorities there. There are no national minorities there, they are integrated all there. In France, I'm saying someone wouldn't get it wrong. About the removal of 50,000 people from records from Croatia in the distance of 5, 6 years in 2002. - 2007, and that 100 thousand people were enrolled, and whoever moved to the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, whether from Posavina, first of all, is referring to them, and should say it openly, so they have lived there since '92. the years when they were expelled from the Bosnian Posavina and known and who they were expelled from and cannot return from them. And here we are implementing a reconstruction program according to the highest democratic standards and allowing anyone who wants to return to the Republic of Croatia to fill that stomach I spoke about on one belt from Novska to Gračac at the border with BiH will not call it what was once called at the time of the Homeland War, we allow not to say that we do not meet all the conditions that the International Community puts before us on the return of those who went, who were afraid and left, who were affected by the storm of the war so they left. So, I'm not talking about anyone who's mean or mean at all. I know that fear is understandable in people, and I lived in Bosnia, in Prijedor, so I lived in '91. For the same reason he moved to his home town of Slavonski Brod. There were people like that everywhere on every side. There was one winged woman who was, unfortunately, failed in BiH, and it was after the end of the war in BiH, so everyone's home. Eh, if that were the case, and every one of them wanted to go home, then it would be easy to establish a place of residence and a place of residence and a place of temporary residence and whatever you want. However, some people cannot return to their home, some people cannot return to Kotor Varosh, or Banja Luka, or Dervent, anywhere. They've been in Slavonski Brod for years. They've been in Slavonski Brod for 20 years. Where's their place of residence? Some, a very small number have managed to rebuild their homes in Bosnia's Posavina, but where is their residence? Well, in Slavonski Brod. Where are their kids going to school? In Slavonski Brod. Where are those in Požega boilers who came from Kotor varoshi from West Bosnian County to say so or canton as I see it. So there they are in Vetov, and there they live in Jaksic. Where's their place of residence? So in Požega-Slavon County. Forever, forever as Milanovic would say, yes, they're there forever. And there's no reason to hesitate to talk about it, but we also have to say that there are those who also have two residences, but this law unnecessarily achieves the right to stay in Croatia without any risk, and they have a house, residence in both Kragujevac and Novi Sad, and in Ruma and Appatine and Sombor, etc. So there's no doubt about them. No, let's do it anyway. But then let's not make a difference with the rest of them. I would say on the next census, perhaps even a demographic picture of one Croatia, and we will artificially change it. And it is clear that the lists of voters are also one of the factors that one cares about to be a different picture only because of the list of voters. I care about getting a list of voters, too. And we care about getting the list sorted out so there aren't 50 people at one address. Well, it's abnormal, it's not normal, it's really abnormal. But as someone said about Vrgorac someone for I don't know Imotski etc., there are those in Benkovec, there are similar houses in Vrgorac, there are such houses in Petrinja and in Glina, etc. So if we're going to even it out, then we'll even the legal right to have a residence in the Republic of Croatia and for that other category, and not just for those in the law that are in the reconstruction or housing programme. We know about our Vukovars. What's going to happen to this law? Here, let's take an example of Vukovar. Werewolves who have been displaced by the aggression of Yugoslavia and the Serbians, so those who survived have been displaced throughout our beautiful but also abroad. Mirna Jukic is in Vienna today, won the bronze medal at the Olympic Games for Austria. Austrian citizen, swimming for Austria and born in Vukovar. Her brother also swims for the Austrian team. How many Vukovars changed their address? How many today in Karlobag, how many in Zagreb, how many in Istria, how many are on all sides? And what did we get? There they will be given a residence, and by allowing this type of enrolment, we will receive a modified picture in Vukovar and a political picture. Is that what this is about, or is that what this is about? Is that the point? In Petrinja? In Glina, in Dvor, Kostajnica, Croatia Kostajnica still. Therefore, I will not say for these unbalanced but for the balance to say the exercise of the right to residence and the temporary residence must be egal-equal to all. And giving more rights for some to be more equal than others doesn't work. And that's why the HDSSB won't be up for this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14426	Thanks, buddy. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14427	It's already expired? And then the damage will still be individual.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14428	We have three replicas, so you'll have a chance to speak. The first one answered for the replica of a colleague named Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14429	I apologize, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to start my replica in a single correct quote. The Republic of Croatia was first recognised by Slovenia, let's not forget that. On 26 June 1991, the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Slovenia recognised each other as first countries. Afterwards, the Republic of Germany recognised Lithuania, Ukraine, Latvia, Iceland, Estonia and only afterwards the state of the Vatican City, which announced its recognition on 20 December 1991 after the day earlier. I am not reducing the merits of the Vatican City state, but I ask you to state certain facts exactly as unfortunately and precisely what a colleague of the HDZ said yesterday that the diplomacy of that state was used to change regulations in the Republic of Croatia. But more important than this, a colleague is one misunderstanding. It is true and I am sorry that Mirna Jukic does not perform for the Republic of Croatia today, and she lives in Austria as far as I know in Vienna. It cannot live in two places, it cannot have a permanent residence or residence or what we will call it in Vienna and Vukovar. She cannot carry out her life activities permanently in two different places, as Nikola Pešalov can neither be in Sofia nor Split at the same time, as Zlatan Saracevic cannot be in Banja Luka where he was born and in Croatia. Let us not confuse citizenship, let us not choose origin with the fact that it is a permanent residence as a place where someone lives permanently. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14430	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Comrade Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14431	A great colleague of the Grbin then go to the Vrgin Bridge permanently and see if he lives there, so look at the Iron excuse not in the Vrgin Most, and see who lives there permanently who and what these towns look like and what it really looks like to be a catastrophic image of demographics and allegedly have a permanent residence and residence. Secondly, as regards the recognition of the Republic of Croatia from these countries as far as I know and remember, and I think I'm older than you, this two-sided recognition of Slovenia and Croatia Mr. Seks was then it was simply an agreement to secede the two states by Yugoslavia and because others were helped in that one to say recognition, although the Republic of the 8th lithode of an independent state and then is soon celebrated Independence Day. And the importance of recognising the Vatican not only as a state but as a symbol of something else and something more sublime was that it really echoed far more in Croatia, thank God, thank Iceland, thank you and these Baltic states we normally look forward to their recognition but the recognition of the Vatican and German Croatia as a state is indeed something that you may not understand in the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14432	Thank you. We have another replica, colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14433	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Grubisic, in my opinion, is quite unsatisfactory, and I did not realize in the end why the HDSSB opposes this law because what kind of changed image is it that you are announcing? The point of this law, as I understand it, is to get the police out and make an insight into the places you mentioned, so Vrigin Most, the Iron, and all those towns, and to determine whether or not these people live there or not, and if they don't live to wipe them out. I have some examples of how hard it works in practice. I'll talk about it more in an individual debate if I don't have time right now, but that's the point of this law. I am surprised by the fact that as a colleague of Turina Đuric that this law is not in an emergency procedure because 12 years after the Constitutional Court's ruling or the Constitutional Court's opinion in the procedure was not any legal solution that would correct it. Why? I won't get into it like you do, but to me, this legal solution is more than important and more urgent. And how it's going to change the political picture, so I don't understand, if these people don't live there, then there's some logic that requires that they couldn't either vote there or that they could exercise their rights there. You mentioned France and national minorities or integration, a fellow French society is deeply divided. If you remember those protests in Paris they proved it, but the other thing is that the French constitution does not recognize the category of national minorities but says everyone living in French territory is French. It may be theirs to say harm or indemnity, but we should certainly be honored to have a Constitution that recognises national minorities and their rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14434	Thank you. We have a response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14435	Col. Hajdukovic would you agree that if I told you that everyone living in Croatian territory is Croats. What? ... No, you wouldn't agree to that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You see, the French are settled. Everyone living in France was either a German Hans by his name or his name was Bask Serkio. Let me answer that right now. Therefore, I also said that Croatia is a highly democratic country regarding the minority issue. And for a long time, when you want Croatian police to sneak around the houses and catch from the apartments to see the neighbors when this one was there when he unlocked when he locked up. And if they determine the fact that it is not there, then one is protected by this Article 16 that it does not have to be there because it is covered by the renewal programme and the debt will not be entitled to residence. Now that's the inequality I'm talking about that you don't understand, and that's why we're not into this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14436	Thank you. Another replica of Ivo Jelusic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14437	Thank you. Well, I wanted to replicate, although my colleague Hajdukovic said very well what I was about to say. Mr Grubisic, you spoke of it in the part where it should be deleted and who can be deleted from this concept of permanent residence. There's two categories, and there's no dispute. Those who are on temporary work or abroad school have no dispute. Other categories of citizens covered by the reconstruction or housing programme have not yet been restored or returned to them. Just you. Well, you can't, whether it's Serbs or Croats whose state is obliged to rebuild the house that was destroyed in the war. If the state has not completed its restoration yet, you cannot banish a man or say he cannot be there and reside permanently because someone else is not renewed. It only applies to those regardless of whether they are Serbs or Croats. But when we restore all the houses and he has a permanent residence, he must live there. If he doesn't then he's subject to what we're talking about, which is that he can be checked whether he's really alive or not. And one more thing just because I have time for it to know if everyone living in Croatia can be Croats. In a political sense, even if they have a Croatian passport, anyone who has a Croatian passport and Croatian citizenship is a Croatian citizen and can perform if the word is for example. about sports for the Croatian team regardless of whether ethnic Croat, Serb, Hungarian, Bosniak etc. And when probably when the site broadcasts the game when they speak then the Croats speak even though ethnically everyone in that team is not the same as the French. We speak French because they are French citizens, ethnically they can be Croatian, why not in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14438	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14439	Comrade Jelusic, you know it's an illusion but you won't admit what you last said. Therefore, it is strange that when you talk about the political French and political Croat, then the political Croatia has 24 rights guaranteed by the Constitution, 24 minorities, and France has none. The only thing Jews have is a minority, to say that Jews have, they're treated differently in France than anyone else. But it's not about us. It's about the French. I'm surprised that if you were here, you didn't react to the speech of a fellow Pupovac who requested, and here is Mr. Assistant or Deputy Minister, from the government are the people here, who asked to get into this paragraph about who was covered by the reconstruction or housing programme, said to get involved, that they would suggest it and return. Is that right, Mr. Deputy Minister, and the return? It's not in the paper, but it's said here. Well, it's a miracle that you're not into it, and that's why you're all about this law the way it's written, and you haven't said anything about that handsome amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14440	Thank you. We're done discussing clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate. His first call was from a colleague, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14441	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. This is one of the few laws after which I feel pleased, and I have been looking forward to him coming to the benches and I am pleased with this decision that the legislator gave with those technical corrections that should be made, which will probably be corrected until the second reading. I often agree with my colleague Grubisic, this time almost in the majority I disagree with him, especially not these political French, political Croats. Outside many countries are functioning, in the United States all Americans are ethnic Croats, French and others, Russians, Ukrainians. I also often say when I talk about the citizens of the Republic of Croatia with the Croatian passport that they are Croats, and often they sit next to me and the citizens of other nationalities and never take offense to it. People started to understand it and to distinguish it, and I don't think you're right about it. In fact, you're instigating these differences and divisions with your discussion, and I don't think that's good. Before Mr. Mlakar said one fact and thank you for that fact, in normal countries there are 25% more than voters, and now you judge what kind of country we are. And defending it means the abnormality to defend isn't good. It's no good to be more voters than residents, so whatever you turn around, whatever you say about any fate. It's not normal for 800 people to live in one address, on the other 400, on the third 105. You have a list of these addresses. To defend this, I claim that more for economic recovery in Croatia will pass this law than the Law on trade societies. You need to bring order. I agree that the Republic of Croatia should take care of both the Croats in BiH and the Croats in Serbia and the Croats across the ocean, everywhere about the Croats, but not in this way. It's not a concern, it's a mob. I'm sorry, it's a scam, it's a gypsies. It is one orderly state that cannot allow it, and an orderly state cannot be as Mr. Mlakar said, if it has more voters than the inhabitants and if it allows it to lie to the Croatian public in the eyes that 800 people live or someone justifies that there are no numbers and there are no streets. What's not going to be heard in the House is an excuse for disorder, publicity and for simply encouraging citizens to disobey the law. This law introduces order. I hope that what was said earlier, I will not repeat what my colleagues are and what the president of the Croatian Labour Labour Party Club said would be respected by the legislator. And I fully agree with colleagues who have previously said that this law will introduce justice, we will prevent abuses, and certainly the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will accept such a solution because normally, who protects 500 thousand more voters from the population, those who abuse disorder in the Croatian state. Whether it prevented a secret service, a foreign force, regardless of its coming from the east, the west, whether it came from the Apenina peninsula or from the overseas, it was the Croatian Parliament who allowed it. That's why it was strange for me to say that Mr. Mlakar's sentence, which we suggested, which was once again confirmed, and that often my colleagues on my right, resent that I say that the Croatian Parliament is actually a doll at the end because they always raise their hands and when people disagree with it they say one thing, they raise their hands to the other and say I have to. So the Parliament seemed to have to listen to someone. So are we dolls at the end? So let's not let ourselves be dolls in the end, no matter who. Therefore, personally, and I believe the club, if these technical shortcomings are corrected, I support and underline that this law will contribute more to the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia than the Commercial Society Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14442	Thank you. We've registered three replicas. First, Vice President Josip Leko called. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14443	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President and colleague Vuksic, as well as the promoter. Before, and I will not discuss this but come to another reading, I suggest that you give us in the Parliament and the Croatian public the answer to the question of whether the law can change the Constitution, so whether the law can derivate the Constitution. The second thing I want you to also answer me, can a Croatian citizen lose a permanent, per your permanent stay in Croatia. When you answer that, and by this law, you would answer positively ask where you will kick him out of Croatia if you take away his permanent residence in Croatia where you will place him. And you're here proposing a seizure, a solution to a permanent residence. Thirdly, I am also asking to answer whether everyone who lives in the Republic of Croatia must now report, or whether the records are correct in the Ministry of Police, or the Ministry of Administration. By which order the citizens themselves check their records with you. Third, tell me what the world's police are able to assess if anyone lives somewhere? The content of that life can be sexual activity, it can be sleep, it can be writing, and it can be nothing. Because the notion that someone lives in a place is not processed, is not defined. I can move out of my apartment in Zagreb, and for 45 years I can move out whenever I want. But I didn't say it wasn't my place of residence, or the place of residence in Zagreb. That's what the Constitution says. Thank you very much. [[Invader Batinić: Time colleagues.]] I just wanted to ask one more question whether a foreign citizen in Croatia can get a permanent stay, when and under what conditions and when he gets a temporary stay. I would ask all of that to be answered before I vote on this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14444	Thank you. My colleague Vuksic has a reply to the replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14445	I'd just tell Mr. Vice President that I won't answer. It'll be the Ministry. He was replicating me so I wouldn't get the wrong idea if I had some power.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14446	Thank you. And the next replica of counterpart Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14447	I have answered the line to Mr Vuksic, but I support these questions asked by Mr Leko as a replica of the whole and would be really interesting answers. And that's why the goal is to make this law work more than once and get to the best solution. And the fact that Mr. Vuksic, in accordance with his previous interest in the media, once I say it to education, makes sense to caricate and what I didn't say and change the thesis about, for example, that 8 hundred are reported in one single address is indeed a cartoon. Furthermore, what you're talking about, HDSSB never went to an election abroad, so diaspora. You, i.e. you are both sorry and the other rulings went to the elections, but HDSSB did not. The HDSSB is a regional party and is not interested in increasing the number of voters you want to show it. We are not doing this, clearly we want to edit the voter lists, and it is clear that there can be no more voters than the residents on the census, and this still needs to be rejected from those mlakar's 25% of the number of minors in the Republic of Croatia. It's a circus, that's 25%. Therefore, you and I, as far as I understand it, are in favour of doing the voters' list, and that is exactly what Milanovic would say ok. But the inequality in approach is what you do, and you're not going to say it at all, but you're saying some kind of replica to me without, which has no basis. So I would also like to hear your opinion of this inequality in the approach to enrolment and the exercise of the right of residence of one and the other. That's what I talked about most. And no cause of hatred, or I don't know what. It's completely out of your mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14448	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica of our colleague Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14449	Comrade Grubisic, I didn't say you were a hater, I was a division. The second thing, I disagree with the amendment as you called Mr. Popovec. I completely disagree, and I'll be against it. That's his suggestion. I don't think that should have been taken into consideration, because even I think it's inappropriate. And the fact that 800 people live at the address is your police records. And 400, you have 105, you have several houses where you have several thousand people reported, no living, but it's registered. Therefore,... And by the way, entertain him, kindergarten. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] So I didn't make up those numbers unless the police were lying. Then I don't know, it was posted to you before the election, eight hundred reported to one address. You've got it in place. Oh, yeah, it's amazing! Well, it's amazing to me, too, but then you have to fight to clear it up. And perfectly normal that they should be, we don't all have to fight in Parliament, all of us, not you. I'm not giving you more rights than I am. Yeah. Well, that's all I was saying. I didn't fight anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14450	Thank you. And the last replica, Ivan Shantek. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14451	Thank you. Here I was offered a statement by my colleague that more for recovery would be passed by this law than by the Company Act, so I expect my colleague Vuksic to replicate and explain how this will be achieved by more than I come from the county in which we are all really interested in meeting the census and the population list because here is Sisak-Moslavina County is one of those counties where the census also corresponds to the population. So the list of voters corresponds to the number of inhabitants. So that's about 25% of what Mr. Mlakar was talking about. I'm while I was deputy mayor you took a little effort so I calculated that we have about 28,000 inhabitants of the adult population more than we have according to the census. But in fact, I was offered one other thing in this law, which is Article 12 of paragraphs 3 and 4 that says which procedure has to be carried out to get someone out of their place of residence or permanent residence as it is said here. Article 12(3) states that the competent authority must establish in a thorough manner all the facts and circumstances on which it may clearly conclude whether that person lives or does not live and then has to implement the following: to determine whether the person or any of the members of the family has sold or otherwise sued a residential facility, to take from the landlord a statement, to determine whether the other members of the family live in the same address, to determine whether the person or any of the members of the family is employed, to determine whether the children of the pre-school or school institution are present, whether the person or any of the members of the household are involved in sports and cultural and other activities, to determine whether the person has a permanent residence in another country. To establish other facts that indicate the permanent connection of the person to the place to which he is registered. If it is estimated that there are between 300 and 500,000 people who have registered residence, I am really interested in the fact that the MUP is the proposer of this law whether police officers will do anything other than satisfy this Article 12(3) and (4) in the absence of citizenship? If I could just say one sentence? I'm afraid this law is written with good intentions, but it will simply be unjust.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14452	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14453	My colleague asked me how, to argue that this law would bring more economic recovery to the Republic of Croatia than the Law on Trade Companies. I was thinking about that part about a simple company of ten kunas. It is absolutely certain that when we introduce order into the electoral lists, if we introduce order into this segment that we are talking about today, there will be a lot less people who will abuse the maternity supplement, child support, social assistance. You know it's thousands and thousands of people. When it closes its eyes, it's a voice buy. That's what buys votes. I object to the election of voters on buses in Croatia. A prominent Croatian from the diaspora voter of HDZ said, "It would be rude for me to abuse and vote in Croatia where I don't pay taxes." One more thing, that's not what we discussed today. Therefore, much needs to be arranged, this is only one law that can contribute to making elections in Croatia fair and fair.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14454	Thank you. Next for individual debate, Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14455	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Well, before I start my debate, I have to say something, I believe that most of you will agree with me, I am sorry that the HDSSB colleague is no longer present, but the actual level of discourse they use is unacceptable for the Croatian Parliament not only for the Croatian Parliament but for one human level. When the man you've replicated and worked with here for nine months tells you he doesn't even know your name and he doesn't care, that he still thinks it's below every human level. It's one thing to be confused as a colleague, Matušić, but another thing is to say something like this. But well, it's a discourse we're used to from the HDSSB and believe me, they know to be even worse. But let's get back to the law. First of all, I would like to welcome the adoption of this law as it is likely to be read from my replicas of boredom. First of all, because of the lack of abuse of the past law, and because of the very fact that the Constitution, as already mentioned, recognizes not the category of residence but only the residences and the permanent, or permanent and temporary ones. One problem I would like to warn from practice, let’s say, from personal experience, is the fact that the residence could not be checked out by a third party unless the registered person in that address really does not live. Here's what I'm going to tell you. An example from my life. My parents bought a house in 1988. It's a house I've inherited now and whose owner I am but we still had mails and voting calls as they were still being delivered to addresses by former owners. Until my mother, as the homeowner of that time, went to the police and asked them to check you out because they don't live at that address anymore. She couldn't do it, and the police told her that the only thing she could do was make a written statement that this person no longer resides there, pay the fees that were at the time 35 kuna, and therefore the MUP can enter a note in that register, or in that residence, but can never delete that person from that address. So, in this case, the owner of a property in which for many years the people who have been registered there did not live with his written statement could not convince the MUP even had the costs to convince the MUP, or that the MUP would make a note that there really is no one else physically living there anymore. So it was done in 2004 after we said you received both mail and calls for a vote and so on. Here, my neighbor just recently had the same case that he recently found out, also through the mail received, that a third person was registered at the address of his house. A third person he doesn't know who he is. So it's not the person he bought the house that used to live in that house, at least as much as he knows. It went so far that he had to ask the neighborhood who was registered at his address. Imagine! And the man in that house lives for sure about 20 years if not more. So these are the illogicalities that this law forced us to do, or you simply couldn't erase someone from a particular address unless he checked out to anyone. Not to mention the abuses that are extremely common and that I hope this law will be resolved. And that is, I think that's what colleagues and colleagues mentioned before me, people living abroad have been reported here with residence and achieve the meaning of social rights, health insurance rights, some even receive pensions in Croatia even though they live abroad. I find that practice inadmissible. Some are registered at certain addresses they do not live in to obtain transport costs to work. And believe me, this phenomenon is very, very widespread. Of course, the one who suffers here most often is an employer. So you have an example of a person who lives and works in Vukovar and is reported in Osijek. And every month on the continuum of that application, i.e. on the continuum of the Ministry of the Interior, the employer, in this case it is the state, pays for his transportation. So, transport costs that come in slightly more than 1000 kuna. So first of all, the state is damaged, but also any other employer who actually pays you. I believe it will also be useful data for the IRS. As mentioned earlier in the Government's efforts, I therefore very much support the e-Government and Data Merging project, namely that the Tax Administration or other interested institutions will have the right to see certain information about a particular person in order to gain access to tax evasion, i.e. renting apartments, which is said popularly on black, or renting apartments without registration, without contracts and the like. In this way, all the parties here are damaged, so when we talk about renting apartments, so also a landlord who is not insured in case the landlord does damage his apartment, a landlord who cannot realise certain rights from a relationship that really resides in that address and in the end of the country that doesn't collect taxes. I also believe that it will be useful data for the employer, precisely for this reason I have cited but also for the state in terms of the voters list. I believe here and colleagues before me agreed that it is truly incomprehensible that Croatia has or any city, municipality, place has a certain number of inhabitants and that they have more voters than the number of inhabitants, it is truly absurd. This law is to be implemented by the police. I have complete confidence in the police here and I think that if we can't trust the police, then really who we can trust. Of course, this human factor has certain shortcomings, but I believe that they can be removed, especially if you have witnesses and statements that certain people at some addresses do not live because even with that police force so far have not been able to delete. So here's why all of these reasons I've stated you've got all the hearty support for this law. I am surprised that it is not in an urgent procedure, given that the Constitutional Court has already reached its verdict ten years ago and over, but regardless of the objections of colleagues especially from the HDSSB, I am sorry that they are not there, have been diminished by the fact that the second reading so their arguments have been heard and would like to see their concrete amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14456	Thank you, too. We have a replica of Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14457	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So I felt the need to replicate to my colleague Hajdukovic because you obviously have no idea that what you're saying through the eu administration is that anything can be done through the OIB. Therefore, at the time of the introduction of the OIB, all state institutions are information-related. Just because someone doesn't want to use those apps, that's another problem. Here's the lady from the MUP, and she can tell you the moment the OIB was implemented when it was introduced that we discovered that 218 thousand people were registered to some addresses that don't even exist. It is a data that has been known for two and more years and is old that the Ministry of Administration and that the problem must be solved. Let us not keep inventing water and saying that there is nothing when there are applications that simply need to be brought down. And those who work in the resolution ministries have to do it. You can't say now that someone's been keeping it a secret. This is the data all state institutions have known about for three years since the Supreme Court, the State's Attorney's Office, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Administration, the MUP were all present at meetings. When the Ministry of Finance reported what stage it came to with the application of the OIB, and now we're all acting crazy like we don't know what it was. Well, I'm just saying that I don't object to you, but I'm giving you information... which exists in official documents both in the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance and also in the other ministries. The ministry just didn't want to sign a document on which some ministries could access certain data and you can laugh at your colleagues as much as you want but these are facts and these are the things that have been made that you just need to use them and not keep saying that there's nothing and that there's nothing going on. Is this story now a successful Ministry of Finance, etc. These are all applications that have been made in the past 4.5 years. All this famous red light so this government and this current ministry leadership didn't do it, it was done before because it takes 4.5 years to process it. And so let's not be smart now and talk about something that needs this e-Croatian, we don't need any e-Croatian. At this point, through the OIB, all institutions are connected, and what falls on the Ministry of Justice, which is a grantovnica, and it's probably going to rock for a long time. If I can just have one more sentence, please. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] And this second, any state institution can throw up information without any problems because it's information-related and that's why big money has been spent. And so we don't need anything new. The OIB was an instrument to solve all these problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14458	Thank you. We have a response to Domagoj Hajdukovic's replica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14459	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, if you're saying that for three years it means everyone's been familiar with this problem so why hasn't it started to work out before, then why did I have to, say, bring in my own staff and I don't know why if they're all networked, why didn't they look at where I was reported. But I want to tell you what's been hit is that many institutions networked to each other not to communicate, that communication is missing. Now I've set an example for you specifically. So if you ask me about the network and the connection of state institutions it's something that a lot more needs to be worked on and the OIB as such is a good thing but only when we have infrastructure and sufficiently informatively connected management will we be able to do so. The World Bank has given very big money to inform the public administration. I'm not going to go into how it's spent, but if you see the final result, then it's truly devastating. Here is an example of the Ministry of Social Care, so where the World Bank has specifically given money to inform social care. Where's that information? I don't see her. It's only now that it starts to be introduced and implemented. So if there was time if the money had any I don't know why it didn't work out. But thank you so much for coming into my word, I let you talk. So you have a discourse like HDSSB that really honors you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14460	Thank you. I'd like to beg, you can't colleague Shucker, I suggest you take an informal exchange of information. There was no breach of the Rules of Procedure, and I immediately answer that there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. If someone hurt the Rules of Procedure, then you're because you've been commenting and you haven't received your word. We move on to an individual debate, MP Ilija Filipovic. Here's your colleague Shuker. A colleague of Filipovic's just a moment, his colleague Schuker announced a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14461	Well, colleague Hajdukovic started to compare something This Regulation shall enter [[Intruder: You must announce an article of the Rules of Procedure that has been injured.]] When I get the consolidated text. [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Now you've pulled my tongue. Just a little fellow, laugh all you want, but you haven't done what you're supposed to do, which is that every MP gets the text. And the other thing you called the board to get the consolidated text but it best speaks about you and the level of debate there is no need for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14462	Comrade Shuker, here's me for information, I agree with all of us, but we had working materials that could also be in function regarding the use of the Rules of Procedure, and Article 209. You are this one now because you said you didn't get the President's word. I hope the time isn't running. Have a discussion with your colleague Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14463	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So I thought I'd get a lot more relaxed in this debate about this serious legal proposal after all the jokes we've heard from Mr. Vinkovic and Grubisic, but here we've gone back a little bit, we've gone deep into the debate, and we've started to share some personal experiences, because with some boards of astonishment some sort of, and in fact, it's the result of the unreading of the portal, the unreading of the public press, because everything I said there, so I'm going to repeat it wherever it should be, it's absolutely correct. I've never told a lie, and it's legal to lobby. Not only could one diplomatic home of a state be used legally, so allowed. We have lobbying houses legalized to do their job in Croatia. So the entire diplomatic assembly could be involved in some kind of political option or individual need, but we'll get there. So given the possible very harmful consequences of the content of this Law on residence by Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, I am primarily referring to the Croats from BiH, but also to the dissatisfaction expressed in the diaspora because of certain solutions I have also spoken to the Committee and I now repeat, I tend to and adhere to the proposal of the representatives of the HDZ Club who spoke here about the need for us to perhaps have a preliminary debate on this bill, that if it does not go in such a way that it goes into second reading, but that the Government respects all the arguments presented so pro et countered and that the amendments are prepared, let the Government prepare them if not all others prepare them. If not, neither one accepts the Government nor the Proposer, so we know what it means, the procedure is very clearly prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, the third reading. This would mean a new amendment, a number of amendments that would eventually be re-adopted by the government, and the Parliament has reached such a conclusion that it is going into the third reading. If it would not be accepted by either or by the other or by the third then I am inclined to make a proposal to the Government, the minister is here, the relevant persons, the vice-presidents of the ruling party are there, the ruling coalitions, so withdraw this law, dress it up and put it in the process, therefore as a new reading because there are a lot of things that I will mention to you. He took one of my thesis Mr. Shucker, the OIB. Please, in order to get a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, the OIB had to be a citizen first of all, had to have a housekeeper, had to have a unique home number of the Republic of Croatia. So he had to have a ID because he has a residence in the Republic of Croatia and has a ID card if he has an OIB. Is there any kind of feller OIB that he spoke of as Mr Shucker's application, so the legislator didn't take it as a fact that we in the Law could speak of in some article all those who have, not to make exceptions that concern only some, and they deserved it less than all those in the name I'm talking about. I speak on behalf of the Croatian diaspora and Croats from BiH. So I'd like to ask the motionary who, the esteemed Deputy Minister, has been duly recording it, to take it as a fact. I wouldn't talk about the details of the article to the article, but let me present a few negative effects after this law comes into force. And I will only refer to two reports, two committees in front of me. One is already mentioned by the Justice Committee where a legal and legitimate activity that I know of has been adopted with a surprise, and legal permission, so it's legal, and I haven't said anything that's not true. Therefore, it is legal and legitimate and allowed to tell the truth. So now I'm saying it because my club hears it because I haven't told a single lie and I haven't put anyone in a position to defend myself from anything. There is no one here who was the minister, who was the vice president of the Parliament, who had not come to the door of anyone from the diplomatic assembly of this country. So please, they didn't just come for coffee, they came to lobby something to someone. If it passes, it passes. Legally, allowed. That is how it is done in the European Parliament. Groups lobby, whole groups lobby. And your group and EPP, my group that I'm in. Please be nice, so it's legal. What a surprise, then, as the miracle of the poet Simic. I was particularly impressed, so I had to mention it. The Justice Committee, when it discussed this law, said most of the votes that this was a good law. Of course, I disagreed with that because when adopting this law, it is necessary to consider and consider a diaspora that is not satisfied with this, so I am talking about Croats outside the Republic of Croatia, who is not satisfied with this solution. This law is worse than the law that was in the procedure, so it wasn't passed. So this law is much worse, and it could actually be much better. The second committee I would refer to is the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, so I have a report ahead of me. Here is also the majority of votes as it is in all committees, the ruling coalition has its hands and decisions and you don't care what we say on this side. Don't underestimate it because it's sometimes very, very awkward because it's happened that the Constitutional Court says its own words, assesses that something is against the constitution, and warns the opposition of such a thing. We have a question here about the number of people who won't be deleted from the records. It was not possible to respond to the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, which is the number of persons. I'm sorry there aren't any buds here. There is an unknown number of persons who will not be deleted from the residence data collection and there is one word mentioned, I think she has all the places, it is discriminatory because it is not the time-defined duration of the exception in Article 12(b) for some, and it does not apply to Croats outside the Republic of Croatia but to another national group in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, it is mentioned that the provisions on temporary residence also deny the right of part of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the vote in the Republic of Croatia and the achievement of the fundamental constitutional right to choose and be elected. Please, the question then arises and the constitutionality of such a provision, such a prohibition to someone who is also de facto de jure. Therefore, a citizen of the Republic of Croatia, and he is denied the right to choose and be chosen. I had to refer to this because I said I didn't want details, and you figure out where to intervene if it's mentioned as a problem. Furthermore, which could be a negative effect of this Law if it comes into force. I think it will encourage the emigration of numerous Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina who now have a residence in the Republic of Croatia, and this would be the result of the individual's personal choice. No one's gonna talk them into it. This is not in the interest of Croats who are fundamental, hence the constituent people in the Republic, Bosnia and Herzegovina. It's not their interest, but if they're forced to, they'll do it. I'm not Wang's grandmother, and I can't predict what number that number might be. Second, the process of returning exiled and displaced Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina could be completely halted mainly those from Republika Srpska. [[Invader Batinić: Time colleagues.]] What? How much time did I have for this one then? [[/Intruder Batinić: Time. Your time is up.]] And it's already gone? [[Invader Batinić: 10 minutes.]] So if you let me have another sentence here's a bar [[Invader Batinić: That's right.]] Here's the conclusion. [[Intruding Batinić: I ask you to conclude finally with a sentence.]] Therefore, it is fully evident that this law is timed to be passed before local elections and future general, presidential, parliamentary, etc. And to clear the voter lists. I support such an idea, but I would ask that it be done on these grounds that I have said, let's say maybe one of the OIBs that it is done fairly, that there is no discrimination, that there are no constitutional provisions and that it is a law that will satisfy and you Croats outside the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14464	You've broken your time. We have three replicas. Pedja Grbin came in first. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14465	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Well, an esteemed colleague used the words of a great poet, Antun Branko Simic, who is also quite interesting from the aspect of this law because it was a man who was born in Drinovci in Bosnia and Herzegovina and continued his life in Zagreb. And like many others, even Antun Branko Simic could not live at the same time in two countries. He could not have been in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia at the same time, but had he decided, and unfortunately, because of his premature death, he could not have lived in Bosnia and Herzegovina on today's occasions in Croatia, he would not have lost his citizenship, nor his personal identification number, nor his passport. He could stay in the Republic of Croatia, he could opt for a temporary stay. But living in Bosnia and Herzegovina all the time couldn't live in the Republic of Croatia, because you can't be in two places at the same time. It's not possible. You can't have your own weight of life at the same time and be in two places permanently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14466	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Filipovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14467	It's very short. So, Mr. coat of arms is entangled. He knows what the dead thought about how many tens of years ago, so I wouldn't go into such a debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14468	Thank you. Next replica Branko Vuksic. Here's my colleague Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14469	Mr. Filipovic, you are to mention lobbying. I'm just going to be honest with you, I'm probably looking at the background, but I'd just like to warn you there's lobbying and racketeering. There's lobbying with an offer that's impossible to refuse. Croatia is mostly great forces, regardless of which side of the world it was rocketed. It means lobbying and racketeering. Lobbing is legal if it's done with honor, if it's done without offers that are hard to refuse and if it doesn't recalibrate. Many contracts were signed by Croatia under pressure, which certainly cannot be subjected to lobbying, and what was said earlier cannot also be subjected to the notion of lobbying. Because when a great force under the allegations of lobbying in Croatia, it's not lobbying, it's orders.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14470	Thank you. We don't have an answer. Next replica Ivo Jelusic, please. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14471	Thank you. Comrade Filipovic, you said one thing that this law deprives the constitutional right of some Croatian citizens who are not there to be elected and to choose. That's not true and there's no law, so this one can't end it either. I am in favour of really looking at this law from all aspects and bringing it to the best of faith and the right. But let's not because we're against in advance, and we haven't read rightly or in order to raise no God to anyone or scare the people with something that doesn't stand. This law does not deny a single Croatian citizen the right to choose and be chosen, and this should be clearly and loudly told the Croatian public that people do not create a delusion that they will not be able to do so now, when this law is passed they will not be able to choose. Every Croat, no matter where he lives on the globe, can run for president of the state and for this Parliament, of course, if a party puts him or make an independent list. But he can't show up anywhere in the local election. And I can't choose to run in Split. Why? Because I live in Zagreb. Why would someone else who doesn't live in Split be able to choose in Split? He can't, because I can't do it as a man, as a citizen of the city of Zagreb, a citizen of Croatia and a Croatian by nationality and by citizenship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14472	Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14473	I'll just say, so the answer to your question will give you Mr. Leko who asked the question and went, among other things, to give you the answer in which way the Croats from America will acquire a permanent residence in Croatia. You can't come to the polls without your ID.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14474	Thank you. Next debate, Boris Blazekovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14475	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy, my colleague. There have been really different views on the proposal for a law on residence today, debate on all sides and I will not talk about it anymore, a colleague on behalf of the club, Nada Turina-Đurić, and I would start this debate with one finding, which is that state-leading is an extremely complex business that should be based on knowledge, on some ethical settings, and not everyone can really run it. In principle, as citizens of individuals, we decided that we wanted to live in an orderly and secure environment and that is what we founded the state for. This country needs to serve us in all our needs and desires. We pay taxes for it both as individuals and as organizations. Through various forms, methods, regulations, laws, contracts, regulations, patterns, all relationships are arranged. It is good and I think that we can all in the Kukurik coalition be pleased that this government and the coalition as such have decided to cleanse and in a transparent manner regulate relations in the state. This is extremely important because only in an orderly state can citizens and citizens feel protected, only in a regulated state can entrepreneurship, creativity and inventory be developed. The regulated state is also the cornerstone of the protection of human rights and civil liberties and only in a regulated state can citizens fully achieve their wishes, ambitions and objectives. In an orderly state, only the talents of each individual, i.e. individuals, and only in an orderly state, can be fully developed, and happiness is one of the inalienable rights of every man. The residence law is one of the laws which regulates the state's relations with its citizens directly. It is a law that treats both human rights and civil liberties, but also determines the relations of citizens-states in the exercise of the rights and obligations arising from the personal interests of citizens and citizens associated with a large range of activities of property and legal relations of each individual, i.e. individuals and their families. It is therefore important that this law is of high quality to be well thought out in relation to all groups of citizens. For example, all citizens, for example, should be considered abroad. What about the sailors who have been on the road for more than a year? To think about citizens and citizens who are not taxpayers and who do not have any property-legal relationship. And those categories exist. Laws that regulate the relations of states and citizens always need to distinguish and separate rights from the obligations of citizens where rights should in principle be priority and necessity. Generally, taking into account laws that are so directly governing the relations of states like this law, states and individuals must be governed by the protection of individuals, and only then control of the state. The residence law is one of the laws that regulates, among other things, the exercise of the right of all full-time citizens to vote for representatives in local parliamentary and presidential elections. But that law is also one of the laws which is the basis for the achievement of other rights that a citizen and a citizen have. Of the social, labour, legal, protective and numerous other rights arising from the Constitution and other laws and regulations. It seems to me that the law, quality and even at some civilization level, regulates the place of so-called residence. Homeless. Here you should take that homeless doesn't mean it's someone who has nothing. Homeless people can also be people who have a lot in theory. In practice, it's not often, but there are some. It also seems to me that Article 9 of the Law requires some information that seems completely irrelevant to me and that enters the sphere of privacy. It also seems to me that when you regulate and determine a real permanent residence, delete and log out of... The residence in Article 12 also has certain things that seem to be entering the sphere of privacy, and they are not necessary for this process to be done. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is the first law reading that allows us to make this good bill even better. And in the end, I shortened my maximum debate because it is a long time ago, I would like to say that in Croatia citizens do not seem to be properly informed, and on some important cases they are not educated to fully exercise their rights. It's not just about this law. It's about the general. It seems to me that we are all at any level of politics, state authorities, simply mandatory to inform our citizens in the right way where, how, in what way and which are all the rights that they have the right to consume, and which can affect the quality of their lives. I'd like you to sign up today for a survey of how many Parliamentarians today especially the newer ones know the address of the occupier outside the Parliament. Abbey 4. But I'm saying I'll do it again once there's a transmission, and some of the light ones will know that the Attorney General is Opatic 4, that they have an address where they can come in and solve a lot of problems, and one of the problems is this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14476	Thank you. Next debate, Perica Jelečević. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14477	Dear Deputy Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and fellow parliamentary representatives. Croatians living in the Republic of Croatia, Croats living in BiH as a constituent people of the Croatian minority in neighbouring countries and Croats in emigrants have been under-informed or misinformed over the past two decades about the current Law on residence and residence of citizens. It would be difficult to count news articles and TV and radio shows as well as information from other intelligence on problems with the application of this law and its abuses. Croats living in BiH and eviction were mostly attacked in connection with the right to vote and to exercise some social rights on the basis of the so-called application. residences in the Republic of Croatia. Media often raises questions about their voting rights because many of them do not pay taxes in the Republic of Croatia. The opinion was promoted that the heavy financial burden for the Republic of Croatia, should simply be removed from the breast of the Republic of Croatia, was a favorite phrase that was often repeated. However, it should be noted that the law on residence and residence of citizens has not been proposed or adopted by Croats living in BiH and other neighbouring countries and emigrants. Instead of making a new Law on residence that would be in line with the Constitution and the Constitutional Court's decision, stories were released about half a million extra Croats, dead voters who vote, we heard stories about huge amounts of money being poured into BiH for child support, maternity benefits and other social rights. The government pressured these stories to force police officers to walk from house to house in uniform to determine whether they lived at the addresses listed in the residence or residence application. Finally, all together resulted in numerous inconveniences both for police officers and for people who needed to be determined whether they lived at the registered address, whether they had permanently moved away or had gone away for a certain period of time. As other laws determine certain rights related to residence in the Republic of Croatia and the ID card which is not granted by the Law on the identity card of a resident does not give certain social rights unless the conditions laid down by those other laws are met. So, for example. a family whose children live in BiH do not exercise the right to a child's allowance if children do not live in the Republic of Croatia. The field reconnaissance determines where children really live, which can be confirmed by the families of the Croatian arrivals from BiH, for example. in Slavonia. In short, the registered residence or residence and possession of the identity card shall not give rights unless the conditions prescribed by other laws are met. However, the proposed law is not sufficiently precise and it is partly indeterminate and therefore opens up the possibility for the competent national authorities of the state administration to make an arbitration decision on the reporting or check-in of a permanent and temporary residence and, consequently, to delete from the records of permanent and temporary residence. The consequences of this can be violations of the rights of individuals and families. It is necessary to lay down procedures by law and to define clearly, e.g. which documents must be attached to the application of permanent and temporary residence in order to demonstrate the intention to live permanently or temporarily in a place. That decision of the Constitutional Court also repealed the provision of Article 13(2) which prescribed the possibility of refusing to apply for residence unless evidence of employment or source of income was submitted. As a result, the legal gap that the MUP has dealt with by internal guidance has been highlighted, which is not a good way to regulate this important issue. The proposal for this law requires further discussion of the amendments and additions of some other laws, such as The I.D. Act, etc. I believe that other participants will be able to understand much better and, on the basis of this proposal, to send proposals and remarks that will help them to draw up a final draft of the law. Finally, I would like to remind you that some of the questions and some of the concerns that have been raised so far in connection with this law in the meantime have either been resolved or are easily resolved. Amendments and additions to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which stipulates that Croatian citizens in BiH and emigrants can have no more than three representatives of any concern that those who have the right to vote may determine the political will of citizens living in the Republic of Croatia no longer exist. Finally, the Law on residence in the general interest of Croatia and parts of the Croatian people living outside the borders should be made, in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, by a decision of the Constitutional Court and by the laws of EU member states which do not declare, for example. Italians in Croatia with an Italian surplus or Hungarian in Croatia's Vojvodina, Slovakia, Slovenia and Romania's Hungarian surplus, although Italy and Hungary are members of the EU and Croatia are not. Croats in BiH and neighbouring countries and in emigrants are not surpluses. With their remittances, they take part with 3.3% of Croatia's GDP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14478	Thank you, too. We have a replica of Ivica Mandic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14479	Here I would like to replicate my colleague Jelenčević that the Republic of BiH has never treated the Croatians in macho, especially in the Republic of BiH, and that this law wants to make more order. If there was an abuse, you and I both know it. We're talking about abuse. The law is not directed specifically against Croats in BiH. Since my colleague Ivo Jelusic and I are members of the government's committee on assistance for the Croats in BiH, I can say here in front of the Croatian public that this is the amount of 17 million kuna that will go towards helping the Croats in BiH. This law wants to draw the line and clearly share on all Croats who have been exiled or in any way have come to the Republic of Croatia. I as a member of the HNS and as a liberal, in any case, allow him to choose where he will live. I would be pleased that our political action in both the Parliament and the Government of the Republic of Croatia allows conditions for these people to return to their hometown to enable them to do so. But I would not like to repeat here the word that the Republic of Croatia is maternal towards any Croats, whether you Croats are constitutional in BiH whether Croats who are in the former republics of Yugoslavia or in the overseas countries. So I would ask that we still choose words and speak in the Croatian Assembly with weight and responsibility, saying words.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14480	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Jelečević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14481	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I did not mention the word machete relations between the Republic of Croatia and the Croats in BiH. On the contrary, Croats in BiH love Croatia and the Croatian state has been very helpful for the past 20 years to the Croats in BiH. The other thing is how they went through all those processes. I don't think both Croats in BiH and the Croatian state were a dominant deciding factor. As for these qualifications of yours, I said that in the media, certain media media have shown certain stereotypes that appear today, of course, which, in my humble opinion, do not simply stand that Croatians, especially from BiH, are a burden to the Croatian state. Of course, I'm personally against all abuses. I am in favour of introducing order, updated databases and population and voting lists because, of course, there is no correct, correct planning of either the economic or social and any other development of the Republic of Croatia without such an exact database.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14482	Thank you. Next up for the Peja Grbin debate. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14483	Dear Mr. Vice President, thank you. I will not repeat what I have already said, but I will refer to one in my opinion a very important question that has been raised today in all these discussions, which is the issue of the constitutionality of this law, or the constitutionality of its name. Article 32 of the Croatian Constitution stipulates: "Any one who is legally located in the territory of the Republic of Croatia has the right to move freely and choose a place of residence.". Not a place to stay, a place to stay. That is why this law is the Law on residence and binding us as legislators, we need to elaborate more on a term, a concept that appeared in the Constitution. And here we have to figure out how a person has the right to choose a residence, when it's temporary, when it's permanent, how he reports it to whom, etc. The question is whether or not the term residence appears in the Constitution. He shows up, but only when it comes to voter law. Is that good, it's not, but it's a small failure that occurred when the Constitution was passed where perhaps there was not enough to take care of the compliance of those two terms. In my opinion, the use of the term residence is correct and the applicant has more than well assessed when deciding to use the term residence, i.e. to distinguish that term to a permanent and temporary residence and there is no conflict with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Since in other things that have been resolved by this law, there is no point in repeating them, but I would refer to the solution regarding the duration of the temporary stay. The law stipulates that a temporary stay may take a year, and that in exceptional cases it can be extended by another year, so up to two years. We are witnessing today that people often need to continue their work or other activities because of their work. Of course, the law provided for certain exceptions. My proposal, my suggestion would be to extend the circle of these changes to allow citizens who want to permanently bind their life activities, their permanent residence to one end, if, because of work or other activities, they have to stay temporarily elsewhere, they can extend that stay for a period of more than two years, and not only in those exceptional cases provided for by law. Here's since I talked about other things myself, I wouldn't have lasted any longer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14484	Thank you. We have a replica of your exposure. Comrade Ante Babic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14485	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Comrade Grbin, you're right most of the time, but you overlooked something, article 32, while you were talking about residence. But Article 32. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia says that anyone legally located in the territory of the Republic of Croatia has the right to move freely and choose a residence. Every citizen of the Republic of Croatia has the right to leave the territory of the state at any time and to settle permanently or temporarily abroad and at any time return to the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14486	Thank you. We have an answer. My fellow coat of arms, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14487	Here is my thanks to your colleague for reading the standard of Article 32. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and yes, you're right. Exactly what you've read is foreseen by this law. It is provided for in which way, under which conditions, in which any person legally located in the territory of the Republic of Croatia may decide to reside and that is exactly what is settled by this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14488	Thank you. Nenad Stazic, vice president. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Comrade Ante Babic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14489	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Your Honor, Deputy Minister. A lot has been said today, actually very much said and that's good. On behalf of the club, Mr. Mlakar spoke, and I don't really have much to add, but according to what has been published in information, all questions related to the Law on residence and residence of citizens are listed voters, extra voters, false application of residence, on the basis of false application of residences, the achievement of some social rights, the vote of the dead, and so on. Amendments to that law have been proposed to delete excess voters, delete those who have registered their residence at the addresses they do not live in and prevent social rights related to the residence itself. All previous attempts to amend this law have revealed that before a new request is made, public debate should be conducted and that any desired and unwanted persons who will follow from the provisions of this law should be well challenged. It's thought of the consequences. It wouldn't be worse to ask for opinions from different institutions, so perhaps simply the departments of the Faculty of Law if they can't from the Constitutional Court, including the Churches if you want civil associations of citizens. Some journalists, some associations that came to the Imotski and Vrgorac area, seemed to not be aware of all of this, so they made unloved scenes and events just after the registered voters, or registered citizens from BiH, and these next local elections would have rocked the hills, the mouse was born. In these circumstances, in order to help people, which was in Croatia's interest, the MUP allowed people to apply for the necessary documents by citing the address of a relative, and this was a familiar thing, friends, acquaintances and even any other address in the city that they applied for. Therefore, many owners and houses and apartments receive calls for elections before each election. That's what we witnessed, and I'm sure it's a good thing that these things are arranged. What I should like to mention, which is what Mr Jelečević was saying, I would like to talk about something else because yesterday I was surprised by Prime Minister Milanovic's statements and I was talking about it. I mean, when it comes to Croats outside Croatia, when it comes to Croats abroad, and it's actually about applications and residence logs, you need to know that in some countries, for example, in Canada and Australia, these are great distances, and in consular representations it won't be easy to do. In my view, this is not possible, and I think that the promoter should think about that even through certain electronic forms, these citizens can actually report and log out what would be of great benefit to these people. Of course, through all of this you should keep in mind that it's good that there are two readings. It might be good if this was a previous debate, if there were two more readings, and in the end we actually came up with those real data for Croats outside Croatia which would benefit all of us here and we wouldn't actually have a problem in the future. Here's the shortest I could do. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14490	Thank you, too. And last reported for debate Ivo Jelusic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14491	Thank you very much. This law we see here in the assembly caused a lot of debates, and in public there will probably be a lot of debates about it. Partly because he regulates a really important issue, part of it is that some people, through this law, obviously want to evict or manipulate something else. So it is not disputed that it should be arranged to know that a really permanent place where anyone lives is really treated that way, and who doesn't live should be treated where it really is. I see from the debate so far here in the assembly, and by the committees that opposition deputies have mostly voted against this law, though I don't know why. I haven't heard any valid reason yet. I listened just before my colleague Babic's debate, I mostly agree with what Mr Jelecevic said before, although not from HDZ, but from the HDZ 1990s, from Bosnia and Herzegovina. I agree with most of the debate. I didn't agree with some debates that really said that the law wants something that the law doesn't say and that's what I really want to say. It comes from Croatia having more voters than it has residents. Right, I'd say so now, and it will be that long and long. Why? Well, simply because we have more citizens than we have residents, because we have citizens who don't live in Croatia, and they're all Croatian citizens and they all have the right to vote. And that's normal that's the way it is. But in what election? In state, parliamentary, presidential. There's a question of local elections and it's crucial here. It seems that's exactly what the problem is, so here with the so-called fictitious residence so far, he wanted to do a standing electoral engineering. If that's the point and that's why so far the law has been the way it is, then he's not good and he needs to be changed. Therefore, every Croatian citizen has the right to vote and to be elected and to run no matter where he lives in the national elections, parliamentary and presidential elections. And any resident who has a permanent residence in front of any city or municipality has the right if a Croatian citizen chooses local authority if he lives there. The one who doesn't live here can't do that. And it's nothing, it's normal. I'm just earlier in the replica of one I'd very much like to say so that I can choose the mayor of Split and vote against Kerum. I'd love to, I'm afraid I can't. Why? Because I live in Zagreb. If I am from Zagreb if I am not satisfied with why someone else would be allowed to vote for someone else from any other city in Croatia or outside Croatia. Because Croatia will soon enter the European Union. In the next local elections, not this year, but those in Croatia will be able to vote in local elections by all citizens of the European Union living in Croatia, who live and work in Croatia. Just as Croatia's citizens will be able to go to Germany, Austria, anywhere else, regardless of being German citizens in local elections, but not in state elections. So let us set matters straight the way the modern world does. We're going that way. Therefore, this law is not directed against anyone. I am the first against passing this law if it is denied any right that should not be denied to any Croat who does not live, who is outside Croatia, whether he is from Bosnia and Herzegovina or elsewhere. I am the first against this law if I repeat one thing rightly to any Croat living outside Croatia, which we do not need to deny. What right do we possibly deny him here? The right to choose local election leaders of local self-government, assemblies and councils of cities where he does not really live. The fact is with us, as well as in Europe, that most of the budgets in every city in Croatia and in every municipality are charged with pay taxes. So the people who work here and their taxes fill the budget. So whether he's a Croatian citizen and no matter who he is or what he is. And that's why it's fair and right that even if the German lives in Zagreb and works there to vote in local elections because he, from his salary, is financing the city, and in the city is deciding on community life in the city. But he will never be able to vote in the national elections because he is not a Croatian citizen. Also, every Croatian living in Zagreb works normally so that it can be in any city in Croatia in the local elections. But if he doesn't live, he can't. So, I'm afraid this is where you actually want to manipulate yourself with this law and it's not good starting with the fact that there was a debate here to deny some right to choose to be chosen, etc. Of course it doesn't stand. I'm afraid that following these discussions and the wrong sending of certain how to say information is creating the wrong perception that this law is targeted I'm going to be to narrow down the circle on Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina mostly concerns those who went to Australia, America mostly doesn't have these problems. More or less, it is mainly about Croats from Bosnia and Herzegovina that are directed against them. I don't know why. I'd like to hear it here or anywhere in the debate that's rightfully denied to anyone. If the right to vote where he doesn't live is denied, no one has the right to vote. So why would he have it? Social rights. Social rights are given to citizens living in a particular state in a particular city. And someone who owns Osijek doesn't have the right to social rights, can't get a social apartment in Zagreb. Why? Although he is a Croatian and a Croatian citizen. Because he doesn't live in Zagreb. Why would someone from another town do that? So I'm here to discuss this really seriously, without any political way to say notice, without manipulation, and to see really why this law is not good, those who say it's not good. If he is not only good because he is prevented from making it impossible for those Croatian citizens who do not live in Croatia not to be able to vote for the leaders of local self-government and that is his only fault, then he is perfect, not that this is his fault, but he is excellent. And if it deprives someone else of the right to be serious as a Croatian citizen, then it's not good. But I don't know which one. Therefore, every Croatian citizen has the right to vote in the national elections. But in the locals, it's just the one who lives here. So, of course, I am in favour of this law, and I've been saying some things to the committees, and I may need to improve the less important, but the taste of the law is fine, so the aim of the law is fine, and I'd like to hear any serious debate and any argument and I plead for it, and on the board, I've been talking about making a wider debate about it and hearing arguments and having any serious argument to consider it, but not this political or this law is not good, but we don't know why we're scaring people. I'm afraid this law actually scares people instead of encouraging them. If this law scares people above all Croats from BiH that they will lose who knows what, and we don't know what, I'm afraid it'll make a new wave of emigration for the Croats from BiH, and I hope that's not our goal. And if we scare them that this law will lose who knows what and the people scared will just move out even more, I think we've done the bear a favor for them and us. I hope that's not the point to anyone, and I'm in favour of it so we can really talk about this, and not that, as it has often been, it's been the case for these people to be manipulated and used only because of the voices, and not for the real interests of their lives, even the national ones, if you will. Cheers! Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14492	Thank you, too. We have a replica, Ante Babic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14493	Thank you very much. I didn't mean to replicate, and I agree with my colleague Jelusic in almost 90% of things, and it would be crazy to share people in this law, to do some insecurity towards these people, to all Croats outside of Croatia. I keep one thing on my mind, I don't know why it must be seen through Croatian society, some people outside Croatia feel that Croatians in Croatia are strongly against them. It's just not good. That's not a good relationship. You said, in my opinion, it's declassified to talk about that only those who pay taxes can vote here. No, he shouldn't be afraid of that. What about the students, the sailors, the people who live in the Federal Republic of Germany? It's all right, we understand each other, and I know you think so too. However, today I talked about it, Serbs, let's say our neighbours have the Diaspora Law and Serbs in the region. And they do very well for me, and they give up nothing. I told you and the Serbian consulate came to these areas this summer and asked Croatian citizens of Serbian nationality to accept free Croatian citizenship. I know how many of our people have had these problems, say, specifically in Germany. What you have noticed and I, I would like to be one consensus about this law, it would be a great joy to me, precisely because of Croats outside Croatia, these technical details that you have talked about and that may require a broader debate. It won't hurt anyone. We're actually going to catch all the populations I don't know in society and give them the opportunity to actually do that. We would help ourselves and them, in fact, all of us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14494	Thank you, too. We don't have a reply to the replica. Here's the final deputy minister. Mr. Tonkovic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14495	Honorable Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs. I would only briefly in a few sentences thank you all for a truly reasoned debate, a series of proposals and remarks. Nothing in life is perfect. We believe that this proposal is good, but nothing in life, so we ourselves are not perfect, it obliges us to consider all these proposals and, in some ways, the comments really with due attention once again and that next time, we can still come up with a legal solution that will satisfy all of them because this is a very sensitive area with a series of implications for all areas of social life. There you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14496	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. This is what we're done with. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And we're done working today. We start tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with a proposal of the Investment Encouragement Act and an improvement of the investment environment with a final bill, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 152. Have a nice rest of the day or some good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-19-0.u14497	Proposal for a residence law, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 143. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. First, the proposal for a residence law is adopted. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law. I'd like to make a statement on this proposal for a conclusion. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? Please make it a more accurate result. 91 votes for and 38 against. The conclusion has been accepted. My colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We're going back to work. We'll discuss 6. Final proposal of the Law on investment promotion and improvement of the investment environment, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 152 I ask the minister to take his place so that we can. Minister. The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament include the first and second reading, and you can submit the amendments until the end of the debate. The debate on the law was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on Tourism and the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government. You received reports from the working bodies at the session. The Authority for the Protection of Competition submitted a binding opinion. I ask if the proposaler's representative would like to further explain the proposal. Yeah. Mr. Radimir Cacic is the first Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy. Here you go.
