ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23876	Dear MPs and MPs, we propose to amend and supplement the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes. This proposal for amending and supplementing is the result of the need to comply with this Law with amendments to the Penal Code, with the new establishment of criminal sanctions and measures, and is also the result of our attempt to introduce the possibility of a Facultyal Liberation from the Penalty of Legal Persons in the event of the application of a criminal offence of the person responsible within the legal person concerned. With the new Penal Code, we have changed the concept of criminal sanctions in the sense that fines, prison sentences and long-term imprisonment are now among the penalties. Prosecution is no longer a special penalty, but a modification of fines, and we have special legal institutes. They're an institution of confiscation of property benefits and an institution of confiscation of objects. In this law, it is important that the Institute is taking advantage of the property as an institution which has been withdrawn from the penalty, therefore derived from the principle of zero points son of a culpa is an institution which is therefore possible whether the liability, or the guilt of a person or not is determined. We wanted to give meaning to the fact that the illegal acquisition of property benefit is something that is inadmissible and what it should have for its measure to take advantage of it. We would add, we suggest adding Article 12a. by which a college would be able to exempt the legal person from the responsibility of the person who would report the criminal offence of the person responsible in his own context prior to the disclosure. It is essential that the work is not revealed, that there is no knowledge yet that it has been discovered, that possible abuses may be prevented and that these provisions are designed to motivate legal persons to report those offences committed by the responsible persons in that legal person without fear of prosecution. In the meantime, between the first and this reading, we have made certain changes in the sense that we have limited the value of the fine below which a conditional conviction can be imposed. So it would be punishments up to the level of 50,000 kuna. Above that, it would not be possible to establish, i.e. to give conditional judgments to legal persons. We've expanded the range of fines a little, so by comparing them to the intended maximum measure if it's a prison sentence up to a year, it would be a fine of up to 8 million kuna in legal persons. And so we've succesively raised the amounts to strengthen the responsibility of legal persons. The range of penalties is large, but the idea and intention of these changes is to take the highest degree of individualisation of institutions when deciding on punishment. Therefore, to allow the range to be properly fined depending on what kind of legal person it is. We have not determined that we are establishing a catalogue of criminal offences that can be committed by a legal person, but we believe that this descriptive part, a descriptive explanation, is therefore a criminal offence that violates the duties of a legal person or has been obtained by a legal person or the person who was required to obtain an illegal property benefit for himself or another is sufficient to establish the criminal and legal liability of a legal person. We also did not accept the proposal to lay down implementing provisions in this law because it is material and legal provisions that will apply from 1 January 2013. It is also a deadline that we set as a deadline for the entry into force of this Law. This would then be brief on those 16 articles that we intended to amend by this Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23877	Thank you. I ask if the Committee's rapporteurs will take the floor? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club – the parties of work will speak for the respected representative Zlatko Tušak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23878	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The law on the liability of legal persons for criminal offences that we received in the second reading in the section is wording and changes in substance in order to comply with the new Criminal Procedure Act, which is a practical technical alignment with that law while certain amendments to the law are in one section relating to improving the text, which is the responsibility of legal persons for criminal offences. The responsibility of legal persons for criminal offences has existed in our legislation since 2003. In these 10 years of the existence of law enforcement laws, we cannot exactly boast that legal persons have been prosecuted and convicted knowing how much crime is being committed all around us about what others outside the country are evaluating us about in terms of corruption and crime. The law was not very effective, and some individuals took advantage of their own interests during the time of the law. Last year, on the basis of reports by the State Attorney's Office for 1508 legal persons as possible perpetrators of criminal offences, there were more by 36.6% than a year earlier. While the number of defendants was 17.8% higher in the same period. Or, in particular, to say from the 1508 reported legal persons, the number of persons charged with criminal offences was 266, and only 119 legal persons were found responsible. Which is when we take only 8% of the reported crimes. This concludes that there is a significant increase in the reporting of criminal acts in legal persons, but also a significant gap between the reported, accused and found responsible. However, a positive shift exists based on previous years, but this is still far from how this elemental disaster should be sanctioned and reduced to the least possible measure. They were mostly represented in criminal acts against payment security. The share of legal persons reported for crimes against payment and business security was 70% according to other criminal acts while all other crimes accounted for 30%. Of those declared responsible, the following situation is based on the measures imposed on fines, the highest of them were between 5,000 and 10,000, and 47 legal entities were punished. From 10,000 to 20,000 kuna, 36 legal persons were fined, and more than 20 thousand kunas were fined the same 36 legal persons. Only 13 legal entities have made a decision on the confiscation of property benefit obtained by criminal activity. This information tells us about the ineffectiveness of the law so far when it comes to crimes against legal persons. As regards the amendment of Article 12a, which provides that the liability of legal persons may be released from criminal offences not if it has reported a criminal offence before or before it is found out, it may be an incentive to report more criminal offences than those who know or have some knowledge of it. But I'm afraid it might also be motivated in some way by an alibi for all those who feel that they're too deep in the jam, to try and cover up their illegal actions in time. The introduction of this provision could assume that it will motivate some legal persons to report criminal offences committed by responsible persons, but the question arises as to who on behalf of the legal person and against whom but and when it could be reported. Because the fact is that determining crimes within legal persons is often difficult and requires a different approach than can be applied and implemented in a regular criminal procedure. According to this proposal, the legal person himself, if he wishes to be released from his legal responsibilities, has the possibility if he wishes to offer knowledge of the suspicion of a criminal offence for the persons who work therein and will then decide whether or not to be released from the offence. It may be a characteristic of a good proposal but only during some time will you be able to see the effects of these amendments to the law whether it will give certain positive effects or not. The intention may be good, and this provision creates tools that could lead to the better functioning of the legal system and the reduction of criminal activity within legal persons much more than this has ever been the case. The current way of doing business and the work of legal persons has shown us that there is a great danger that legal persons can be perpetrators of criminal acts or potential perpetrators of criminal offences. We know that many management structures in companies hide behind legal persons from some illegal activities. It is almost impossible to know anything until those who know something about these illegal acts and actions speak. In most cases, it is the only way to prove that the crimes behind which the consequences are the poverty of all types of creditors, suppliers, states, workers and the consequences of such actions are that we all pay fatly together. This law needs to be spoken more publicly in order to encourage all those who know something about illegal actions to motivate themselves to apply in order to eradicate as much as possible the thief who is present everywhere in our country. Legal persons in companies, institutions or associations of citizens but also political parties are legal persons. Most of them are related to the company's crimes, and in that part is hiding the greatest crime. But we can see that the political parties are no longer in protective custody, which is a good sign of crime prevention and a clear positive shift in the eradication of all types of crime. Because of the deep-rooted crime, we have a large number of completely destroyed companies. These were derived from money or other property benefits, and largely resulted in the situation of 350 thousand road workers, destroyed companies, and wealthy individuals who were not asked in what way they acquired the property, but also workers who could not get paid for months because of these individuals who were used in illegal works. Certain improvements and corrections are welcome in correcting this law between the first and second readings, especially in this part of the larger amount of fines. We can see from this example that such a practice should also be in most of the law proposals that we receive here in the Assembly, if certain laws can be improved between the first and second readings in their quality. The successful application of this law will only succeed with the effective application of the Penal Code, since most of the amendments to this law are precisely due to compliance with this law. Finally, the Croatian Labour Party will support the amendments to this law with the hope that it will be a step forward in the repression of illegal actions and the processing of all those who have so far sinned in the law or have sinned in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23879	Thank you. This exhibition is being replicated by the esteemed representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23880	Dear fellow Tušak, your statistics in your presentation show that we are increasingly sensitive to the company's robbery. So as soon as more than 30% of the legal entities reported are reported, we've started to see what the cancer of this society's wounds is. 17% of more processes launched also say that courts have become more efficient and law enforcement authorities. However, the indictments are being brought up, rarely are those who have been convicted more rarely, and it should be pointed out here that it is quite certain that it is also wrong to carry out a reconstruction of the judiciary. The foundations of this kind of practice were built on robbery. In Croatia there was once a sport to rob companies. The companies were won for a handful of kunas by those famous management loans that were legal here in the Parliament, and such people who robbed companies became pillars of society, they were prominent citizens of the Republic of Croatia. companies have become a means to enrich individuals. They were ruining, selling land, and where did the workers end up? The workers ended up on the road. Such a type of crime does not go out of date and certainly that all those who robbed Croatia who turned black hundreds of thousands of workers should respond and therefore the change of laws in this sense is welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23881	The replica corresponds to the esteemed representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23882	Thank you, Vice President. Yes, colleague Vuksic you said statistics are sometimes inexorable, statistics sometimes reveal a certain truth about what happened. And what you've been saying, I agree with you in that part of it, primarily when it comes to crime, corruption, illegal activities in companies. In large part, we can say that the bad laws were also wrong if we go according to some laws when it comes to privatisation, bad laws have been passed and the Croatian state has been robbed in the privatisation itself. Everyone's saying today it was legal. On the other hand, it is clear that in this past period, in large part, the judiciary has failed. And I hope that within that and with certain laws that will change the question of the judiciary's relationship to certain actions and processes that are being conducted and if the judiciary is independent of deciding on the basis of the law, but the essence of this particular assembly is that it makes clear laws that cannot be misused and that individuals under the law do not somehow acquire their property and in some way impoverish this society which essentially happened during this past period and that is why we have this situation today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23883	The HDZ club's position will be presented by respected representative Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23884	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support this Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Liability of Legal Persons for Crimes more because we have supported this law in the first reading. And here we are pleased to find that the motionor has accepted our remarks made in the debate and incorporated them into the final text of the law. And then, on the occasion of the debate on these amendments and the additions to the law in the first reading, we expressed our agreement that this law is necessary because it is possible for a person responsible to obtain an unaccountable property benefit through the criminal act, and if she knew that it was co-responsible and therefore had to suffer punishment, to return the non-accountable property benefit, of course without that subjective element of guilt which can only be on the side of a natural person. But according to this, if it is identified by a natural person, the person responsible shall also be held accountable for the offence. These changes and are complemented in part by technical, therefore compliance with the new KZ and some better expressions in the manipulations of certain provisions, but we spoke on the occasion of the first reading. So interesting would be the data this law was passed in 2003, almost 10 years of application, it would be interesting to elaborate its application and its results. So I am legal text, however we improve it, will not lead to the application of the law unless the entire executive and judicial authority is dealt with in law enforcement. So here we are talking about a law that has been in force since 2003. It is generally known that, somehow, it only started to apply more strongly in 2007 as part of all those anti-corruption strategies and programmes, so also one stronger act of the state's attorneyship which actually gave guidance to its state lawyers that in cases of criminal charges against responsible persons then, according to official duty, it also extended the procedure to legal persons. Despite all this, we heard a few minutes ago, but this is also the information that we heard from the Minister of Justice somewhere when he was making public statements that last year there were 1816 criminal charges and the liability of a legal person, that now we've only heard of 13 legal persons, that for 13 legal persons a decision was made to take advantage of the property, that 231 verdicts were made last year, but here I would have warned of something. Last year, 5 convictions were passed with the strictest and most severe punishment for legal persons, which is the abolition of a legal person, but those judgments are ineligible and that is what we warn permanently and continuously, that we do not have harmonised legislation and that we cannot make laws each and every one of us in our own house. We have, therefore, why the involvement of the judicial authority, why the conduct of proceedings, have 5 judgments that are abolished by legal persons but cannot be carried out because the provisions of the special law have not been amended, so that is not the basis for the abolition. Mr. Justice says that's what he said a few months ago. This law will enter into force in 1.1.2013 and, therefore, we expect at least in the procedure of amending these other laws which would allow for the execution of judgments and the strictest penalties against legal persons, and I note that these strictest penalties are imposed on those legal persons who are in some way found to have just been established for the purpose of committing these offences, therefore for the most severe forms of this responsibility, and now we are coming to the conclusion that there is no way to end them. I express my satisfaction here that what the HDZ Representatives' Club warned about in the first reading debate was accepted, so that the provision was returned or that the provision did not change that a conditional sentence could be imposed and that when it was not imposed, that is, when a fine of up to 50 thousand kuna was imposed which ensures it and I think it is right that for those most severe forms for which the strictest sentences were prevented that a conditional conviction could not be given to them, which is fine. And here's what we're saying, is that it's too long a 10-year limitation for the execution of a fine, that that limitation period is now reduced to 6 years, which is actually in line with the limitation period for the execution of the fine prescribed by the KZ to make it even. Because it's really hard to believe, every serious state if a court ruled a fine that that sentence would then be executed within six years because we really can't predict a situation where a legal person would have a blocked account or not have funds. Then she has to be abolished, disappeared or bankrupt within 10 years. So that deadline was too long, now he's kind of more logical. I warn you once again, although this law has a provision on it but it may not be clear enough, which is this Article 12a, as a newspaper that says that a legal person who has reported a criminal offence to a responsible person prior to his discovery or knowledge of his own that he is found out that he can be freed from punishment. We think that perhaps we should make it more clear somewhere that even in the event of acquittal, there is a need to pay and return non-accountable property benefit, therefore the benefit obtained by this crime. The emphasis here is only that the legal person will be released from the sentence but its responsibility should be established if the person responsible and the obligation to repay the property benefit is found if it is acquired by criminal activity. I'm afraid given this small number of people who have been told in the past year to take away property benefits that this might not be understood as if they were released for reporting that they wouldn't even have to repay the property benefit wrongly acquired. And another note. It is Article 22, which determines that the court will now, on official duty, after a judgment has been passed without delay on the content of the judgment condemning the legal person, notify the court or any other register in which that legal person is entered. It is, in fact, a change in the way that the register has so far been notified of a judgment of power but also for the safety of other entities, as explained by the legislator, for the safety of other entities in legal and economic traffic, the pronunciation of both unlawful judgments will be indicated. I ask the question, what about security measures? Therefore, with security measures that may be a ban on obtaining certain permits, a ban on dealing with state users and the law says local budgets, although a more correct term would be the budget of units of local and regional self-government. Therefore, if such security measures are unlawfully imposed with a conviction whether or not they will be entered even though it is known that the security measure is only beginning to take effect from the day of the judgment. And what's going to happen and how it's going to make up for someone else's damage. So, if we respect the presumption of innocence to a powerful verdict, what will happen if someone in the court register is entered and an inadmissible verdict and a security measure, and that the verdict is done to that effect, and that the verdict is not powerful. So, this remains an important legal issue for me, and here I will also give the amendment in this sense, because it seems to me that something that the applicant may not have wanted to do, in the second paragraph of Article 22, which speaks of the mandatory content and the notice that the court will provide to the registers stands for the court, the number of judgments and the date of the judgment at the time of delivery of the register of unlawful verdict, so the first point that the applicant's intrinsicity is not going to be the date of the court's decision, or I think that the number of judgments and the date of the verdict should be given, or this should not be mentioned at all, by reason that the third is then that the court will also say that the contents of the judicial ruling would be notified by the competent ministry, but so should the register. If the purpose of this article is to understand it well, and I ask the Proposer to explain it, if the purpose is that court registers should be informed of the power of power, then and this mandatory content should not be included in this law and should then be subsequently notified to those registers and to the judicial verdict, or the Ministry of Justice, which will then be directly informed by the register. Here, it's another question that remains in this final text, and otherwise for all the reasons why we supported it in our first reading because we think that this law is also one of the anti-corruption tools. We'll back this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23885	We'll hear two replicas of this exhibit now. First respected representative Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23886	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Lovrin, you've been talking about two aspects that you've done, let's say, conditionally commended and I'm telling them the truth, I don't understand them in layman's sense, but they can't sit me down. That's what we discussed at the Legislative Committee. Obsolete in the case of liability of a legal person occurs after six years and after six years, the sentence which has been imposed at one point by a certain procedure, etc. He can't charge anymore. It's completely unclear how in an organized state it can happen that the company doesn't pay the fine for six years. If there's no money to pay the fine in that period, then it's a long time ago than those six years to go bankrupt. If he has money and he doesn't pay, then what does the state do? So, I'm unclear about the need for antiquity charge. If the state is doing its job, it shouldn't have to come. Another aspect is, the legal person who reported the criminal offence of the person responsible before his discovery or prior to his discovery that the act was discovered may be released. And that's what I asked the Legislative Committee what's actually going on right now. On behalf of a legal person who can report a criminal offence? Of course the responsible person, no one else. Then they explained that this article was written exclusively for the situation when the responsible person changed, a new team came to the head of the company. Now this new team is setting up a crime in the last team, reporting them, and the firm in that case is not responsible, but only those who have been removed are responsible. Is it possible that the law for this situation alone predicted this moment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23887	The replica matches the esteemed Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23888	Thank you very much. So, according to Minister Miljanic, I read from one of his statements, he came up with this provision precisely because now administrations or subsequent administrations are reporting those former administrations because there was crime there, etc. And lest they be in fear that their legal persons will bear the punishment for it now, so that God forbid they will shut up that crime, which, even if they were to fail again, would be a crime under some other law. But I almost think I can recognize the situation when they're not. Let's just say that the person responsible and the person responsible for something in the company is responsible for some part of the company's left to commit a crime and that the person responsible is the other person in the company for general business reports it. And as for the outdated, I myself sometimes say that I would abolish all the outdated because it can't happen that someone escapes the implementation of the ruling given by the Croatian Court. However, it is one institute says a legal theory precisely to ensure legal certainty and in fact to force the state to also rule on behalf of the state to implement them in a timely manner under the threat that they will not be able to implement them later. In relation to the planned limitation period of the first reading of 10 years, I think that this is also good compliance with the Penal Code, which provides for a 6-year limitation period for a general penalty, and the state must, of course, make an effort because it has a strong enough apparatus to carry out the judicial decisions that have been made on behalf of the Republic of Croatia and made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23889	Second replica, the esteemed Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23890	Dear colleagues, Lovrin, you have spoken of the incompetence of the laws of some, so the laws of one law make it impossible for the other to do what this first prescribes. Talking to citizens shows that citizens know exactly what they're talking about. The bottom line is, all of these robberies are that those who rob know that they will never or in rare cases bring back what's been robbed. We've been talking about billions of stolen money for years. How much of that money was paid back? First of all, those who robbed the companies didn't rob with a sock on their heads, went in and came in with a gun and stole someone, so now we don't know who they are. They have their own name and last name, there are accounts, as former state president Stipe Mesic said a trail of money exists, we know well, mostly transferred from company accounts to their own accounts, in various ways laundered money. And I'm just as surprised as you say how old can it be? How can it get old knowing someone needs to pay for something and not pay for it? Why this 6-year-old deadline, I don't understand it, so maybe you'll explain it to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23891	And this replica corresponds to the esteemed Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23892	So here's why, according to the legal theory, the state is forced to make its decisions and execute within a certain period. But, of course, I agree with you here, so we can finally see this, and you, when you come to power one day, probably the same thing will happen to you. You see how it started with tax charges, everything was going to be bullied that everything and everyone on the pillar of shame, so as soon as they stick it there, everything will be paid immediately, and now we see that nothing is paid because that revenue in the budget just doesn't exist. And we can see the debtors are missing. What does that mean? This means that they were written off, out of date, or out of date, or I don't know what happened to these claims, so you can see that neither of them was God-knowing. But our task here is also as legislative authorities to try and even have an initiative when we notice that there are laws somewhere that are not in line to try to comply with them because I don't think it's worthy of one state to pass a verdict that because it has insolence in another law it can't implement.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23893	Thank you. We will now hear the views of the HDSSB club and the respected representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23894	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes is before us. We have thoroughly discussed this law in our first reading and what is crucial to the bill is, above all, the need to make this law really effective because without the effectiveness of the law without the practice where this law should be implemented we have done nothing. So by harmonising this law with a whole series of those anti-corruption laws that we had here at the plenary sessions of the Croatian Parliament, above all, each of them needs to be made more effective so that this fight against corruption really has its results. The results can only be obtained if the whole set of anti-corruption laws we have passed is really applicable in practice. The responsibility of legal persons for criminal offences as we have heard is not some legal paper, it is present in the legislation of the Republic of Croatia for 13 years, the only thing that has proved to be controversial has proved to be the very application of this law and the law itself when it comes to the real responsibility of legal persons for criminal offences, because so far, the rule that only a natural person can be held responsible for the crime, and the legal person has been provided for our criminal laws, but we have seen by the number of cases, by the number of resolved cases, by the number of convictions made that it was not in practice. If it's only 5 convictions to abolish a legal person, and since 1816 applications, then there's really something wrong with the law's implementation itself. What should be supported is that it is the harmonisation of the law with the Penal Code, which will enter into force on 1 January 2013. The new criminal offences, i.e. the extension of the catalogue of criminal offences, the confiscation of the case is no longer a security measure but becomes a special institute, a conditional conviction is no longer a particular type of sanctions but a modification of the penalty. This is what this bill adopts as a positive change, a change of alignment with the Penal Code, which will enter into force on 1 January 2013. The college provision in Article 12a, when a college discharge is envisaged from the guilt of the legal person who has reported the criminal offence of the person responsible in the legal person prior to its detection or prior to the finding that the act has been discovered in this way, we consider it an attempt to motivate the legal person to report the offences committed by the responsible persons in the legal person without fear of prosecution. We consider this a very important part of this law because if anyone in a legal person is really afraid to report that a criminal offence has been committed, then this law really doesn't make sense. I would also not say that this law was passed just so that some new administrations we know would be named after the elections made to seek the mistakes of the former administrations, so that the purpose of this law is that the new administration is involved in investigating the procedures of the former administrations so that some of the members of the former administrations would be responsible for any criminal offences committed. We believe that this law should be applicable to all, that this law should not have a political dimension because it has not been passed for anyone to investigate. We know whose task it is to investigate whether crimes have been committed whose obligation it is to report crimes committed. This law should have the meaning and purpose of really legal persons if they have committed a criminal offence to be convicted for such a crime. We also support the change in the minimum and maximum fines provided for by this Penal Code. Indeed, it is not appropriate to give a conditional sentence if the offence is committed above the value of 50 thousand kuna. This is what we discussed in the first reading and we support this change in the modification of fines that have been increased to distinguish the severity of the crime from those that legal persons are committing in terms of the offence. This is still a more serious crime and should be punished more seriously. The HDSSB Club in this second reading is the final proposal of the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Crimes committed and we will vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23895	I thank and conclude the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23896	We are going to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes, Second Reading, PZ No. 142. The debate on the text of the final draft law is over. The amendment was submitted by attorney Anna Lovrin. I'm asking the proposer's representative to come forward. Deputy Minister of Honor Sandra Artuković-Kunšt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23897	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable MPs and MPs. The Government accepts the amendment to the Amendment to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23898	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 116 votes, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes has been adopted in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23899	We move to the next item of the agenda, that is: - The final draft law on amendments to the Law on Juvenile Courts, second reading, PZ No.173 Proposing the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy justice minister respected Sandra Artuković Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23900	Thank you very much. Honorable MPs and MPs. As for the previous law, this too is the result of the need to comply with criminal law reform. Namely, the Youth Court Act was adopted on 12 April 2011, and the new criminal law should enter into force on 1 January 2013, it was adopted in October 2011. For this reason, the provisions of the applicable Law on Juvenile Courts were to be brought into line with the Penal Code. The coordination was carried out in the section relating to the application of safety measures to minors. Namely, the Penal Code has extended a range of security measures, and so far these are in relation to their application to minors prescribed specificity in the sense that the security measure of mandatory psychosocial treatment and the prohibition of access to minors can only be imposed with the institution's educational measure or the punishment of juvenile prison. Further compliance with the Penal Code was carried out in the catalogue of criminal offences. The Law on Juvenile Courts does not apply only to minors and minors who have committed crimes but also to children and minors if criminal offences have been committed against them. And we have here been determined to specify the precise catalogue of criminal offences that this law refers to and that of the so-called. the old Penal Code and those stemming from a new one in order to specify certain provisions of the applicable law and to remove doubts and difficulties regarding their application in practice. So we remove the possibility of doubt as to which provision does the Law on Courts for the Youth of the Old or Penal Code apply when the Court imposes penalties or enforces the law. There was also a need for special coordination in the event of criminal offences. The acquisition of criminal offences is an institute that is otherwise assessed, prescribed and otherwise decided by the application of the Penal Code rather than by the application of the Law on Juvenile Courts. Therefore, it is not necessary for the acquisition of criminal offences in the case of this Law on Juvenile Courts to establish individual penalties, and I am then trying to determine them rather than the purpose and purpose of this law to impose, on the principle of opportunity, that penalty which is most appropriate for the perpetrator concerned. We also prescribed that if the adult who is in time is now of age and at the time of the trial has not turned 21 years of age, she is being tried for a criminal offence committed as an elderly minor or a minor, he may be told a educational measure by reference to a disciplinary centre, thus allowing for better individualisation of sanctions and the court is given the opportunity to intervene when these perpetrators do not carry out the prescribed obligations or refuse or interfere with the enforcement of the educational measure of enhanced supervision. We also specified the state's attorney's behaviour in a way that in the previous procedure we explicitly removed the possibility of re-examining a minor who had already been questioned by a judge for youth or judge of investigation. We cited this change compared to the previous text in the first reading, so the state attorney after being informed of the arrest of the minor has only two options, so it is necessary to decide whether the arrested minor will be released immediately or will take him to questioning the youth judge. The difference that arises in relation to the first text is also the provision of Article 10. refers to the conduct of the President of the Council following the receipt of a proposal to impose a juvenile sanction or to prepare for the maintenance of the centre of the council, we have added paragraph 5, which provides for the exclusion of the application of the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act in the event of recognition of guilt and the agreement on sanctions against a minor. So, if we have reached the point that we have a plea of guilt and that we have agreed... sanctions then it is explicitly excluded to apply the CAP. We have followed the proposal of the Advocate General for Children, after which, after a valid solution on conditional discharge from the implementation of the educational measure on this discharge, a competent social care centre will be informed of the place of residence or the place of residence of minors. The intensity of this provision is to provide the minor with the further care he needs after being paroled, which is a concern stemming from the social sphere and psychosocial treatment and everything else in that section that will take over social care in order not to provide protection to a conditional minor at the most possible level by social means. As we have said, we have aligned ourselves with what categories of perpetrators of criminal offences are at the expense of children who are taxed concerning certain provisions of the law. The names of criminal offences with the names of criminal offences from the KZ to the harm of children have been harmonised and what we consider necessary we would suggest that the Croatian Parliament establish and issue a consolidated text of the Law on Juvenile Courts in order to enable, in this part, the appropriate application of these provisions in specific cases or in courts. Here's the short one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23901	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. In the name of the Croatian Labourist-Party of Work, representative Nancy Tyrelli will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23902	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected deputies, colleagues and fellow MPs. So here is the adoption of this law, mainly in terms of compliance with the KZ, and most of all, this harmonisation concerns security measures where it is necessary to commend solutions to regulate the duration and justification of measures according to the KZ criteria. It has also changed the list of crimes in the catalogue against children, and it has been noted in a way that is consistent with changes in the 2011 KZ, so we can say that it is only technical harmonisation. As regards the difficulties in the practice of acquisitions, the solution which provides for the provision in question of the imposition of a single sentence without the pronunciation of individuals cannot certainly be a waste. This is a logical solution, for example, because it is an emphasis on imposing sanctions on a minor on a special prevention where the verdict must in any case act incentivically that this particular person does not commit further crimes, rather than on a general prevention where someone will learn only on the experience of someone else. But what is most controversial is material purpose. The principle of opportunity was even more resuscitated with the new CAP, and it existed before in the law in question which is now changing. It is that in practice there is no real sanction for minors of criminal offences because even the perpetrators of serious crimes are easily aware of the need for their punishment which is justified by not being meaningful. Here's a recent example where an elderly minor literally beat up in his town of a citizen. The criminal proceedings were initiated by reporting to the DORH, and they immediately said they would only warn him and that it was unnecessary to try. It was not his first such case, and almost always such a reaction was caused under the influence of alcohol. However, the DORH has given up its persecution by holding that it is not intended to initiate the procedure, and the perpetrator is not at all referred to the enforcement of the safety treatment measure on addiction. On this example, we could just say so much about the practice of saying security measures. I believe and hope that this is an exception and that the rule is not exactly on the trail of what the deputy minister had previously presented. Also experience with so-called humanitarian community service work is not told until the end, or it is not determined by the prescribing captain, especially ineffective and turns out to be more of a form. It certainly cannot be said that it acts incentivically on the perpetrator in the sense that he has stopped doing so in the present way. The solution that the person who committed the crime while she was a minor, and at the time of the trial, she was 21 years old, may also say the educational measure of reference to the discipline center, I believe that she may be a little imprecise. The choice of sanctions should in no way depend on the speed or better stated slowness of the courts, which in practice could be such a case. In principle, the provisions remain good because removing the possibility of someone without need or even being illegally in a breeding prison when there is no room for it. The sighting of this law is that too little has been taken care of in general prevention so far, and too much of the special one. This resulted in a greater number of criminal offences and especially those related to violence among children. What is the purpose of educational measures toward persons who are 21 years old or even 23 years old if these 21 years of age have not been those educational measures are difficult to expect in the first place that something else will succeed further. This may indicate the indecisiveness and indifference of the judiciary to punish perpetrators as such. If there is a need, a suspended sentence may always be imposed, i.e. a provisional sentence under the Penal Code or a prison sentence, with a conditional discharge combined with security measures or protective supervision. Because the Penal Code overwrites and has such solutions. In addition to technical harmonisation, therefore, much does not change, because what needs to be done is certainly the highest principle of purpose as well as all those sublaws that regulate the enforcement of sanctions, and better control of the application of laws and regulations in practice. On those specifics, a legal arrangement of the model of our juvenile justice system has been set up. However, legal norms and positive criminal-legal solutions are one thing, and their everyday application in everyday practice is something that we will agree on quite another. We believe that when it comes to courts for youth it is necessary and a continuous and systematic education of judges in these courts. Since the Judge for Youth is appointed from the order of the Judges of the Municipal and County Court, these are the holders of the judicial functions appointed by the State Judicial Council to this office. A poll was conducted in time, an anonymous survey among judges of youth courts where they identified sufficient need for judicial psychology, sociology of juvenile delinquency and social pedagogy. So, in order to be satisfied with the courts for youth and with the sanctions imposed on all of us not only do the perpetrators of these crimes, we must certainly work on further education and empowerment to say so to the judicial staff in the courts for youth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23903	Thank you very much. Next is the HDSSB club and counterpart Josip Salapic. Otherwise, because we've got a lot to do, we're gonna be working today without a lunch break.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23904	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. We are facing the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Juvenile Courts. One of the laws that falls within the complex legal question, here we have heard a colleague named Nancy Tyrell talking about the need for a permanent education of our judges for the purpose and effective application of this Law, one truly specific area because it is about minors and the court that judges young people who have committed crimes. The need to pass this final bill is, above all, a alignment with the Penal Code as well as a whole set of laws so far. This Law had to be brought into line with the Penal Code, which will enter into force on 1 January 2013. The harmonisation with the Penal Code was carried out under the provisions of the so far Law on Juvenile Courts of 2011 and the application of security measures to minors and the catalogue of criminal offences to the harm of children is also prescribed. Therefore, the existing law is in line with the new Penal Code so that there is no difficulty in applying the law. However, that way, therefore, difficulties will be avoided in practice with regard to the application of the Penal Code for each individual case, especially when it comes to criminal acts affecting the sexual sphere, which are prescribed in chapters 16, 17. The 2011 Penal Code. Other amendments and additions to the law above all are an improvement of legal provisions in line with the needs of practice. In the application of this Act, there was a need for some additional amendments and additions to the law. First of all, the provision prescribed by the court in giving a single sentence of juvenile prison for the acquisition of criminal offences is specified in order to avoid the dangers that existed in the imposition of the provisions in force, i.e. that the court applies a provision on the acquisition of the Penal Code when that penalty would be brought to the detriment of minors, therefore, according to a criminal basis, that it is always applicable to that law which is less favourable to the perpetrator. A provision on material and legal purpose is specified. Therefore, it is prescribed that an adult for a crime committed as an elderly minor, who did not turn 21 at the time of the trial, may also be given a educational measure of reference to a disciplinary centre. Because we think this is good. The individualisation of criminal sanctions as well as the possibility of the court intervened in the case where a person does not carry out the specific obligations or refuses or interferes with the enforcement of an educational measure of enhanced supervision, the problem of material and legal purpose is certainly for the debate, but the individualisation of the perpetrators of the crime is certainly according to this Law because not all the criminal offences provided for in the catalogue of criminal offences are the same, so the individualisation of the perpetrators also contributes to the rehabilitation of the perpetrators themselves, as well as a faster return to society which I believe should also be one of the intensities of this Act. Action has also been improved when it comes to the conduct of a state attorney, when it comes to the arrest of minors, the need to re-examine a minor if the examination has already been conducted in the previous procedure. A provision relating to the so-called so-called "D" has been specified. direct proposal. The need for a re-examination of minors by a state attorney is now explicitly removed if a minor has already been questioned by a youth judge. We also believe that all of the amendments and additions mentioned in the complaint proceedings and when it comes to the sentence of prison that the solutions provided for under this bill are well worked out in relation to this first reading and that, as such, we can support them. From the above mentioned club HDSSB supports the Final Proposal for a Law on Juvenile Courts and we will vote for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23905	Thank you very much. Followed by the HDZ Club and colleague Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23906	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister. So first of all, let me say, let's say that if I can call it dissatisfaction, here we are now discussing a set of laws in the field of justice and we will be working without a break, and it is in the pause that committees are scheduled, and this is the parent board of Justice and the Committee of Justice, where most of us, members of which are most of us lawyers by profession, graduate lawyers between Croatian lawyers, and I think we would be happy to participate in the work of our parent board, the Justice Committee, but here we are also discussing the laws here also from the field of justice, and I think it's not good. As regards this very final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Juvenile Courts, the HDZ Youth Club will support the adoption of this law. We also supported the law in the debate in the first reading. Here and regardless of what the Proposer says that the text of the bill in the first reading has not been made any comments, I am pleased that the final text better arranged Article 7 to which the comment was made on behalf of the HDZ Club. So here's this Youth Court Act was first brought in in '97. A year. Last year, we thoroughly aligned it with all European directives and acquis and adopted a new law in 2011. Here are now the amendments to this law for reasons to comply with the new Penal Code, which enters into force on 1 January 2013. What we all feel, so this law is called the Law on Juvenile Courts, because we couldn't find a smarter name, although it can be thought from the title that there are some courts only of some particular kind, but this law regulates both parts of the criminal law and parts of the criminal proceedings and parts of the execution of sanctions, sets out specific provisions on urgency, etc., etc. So, and all that happens in the proceedings when a minor commits a criminal offence and when the law was materially applied to it. One special sensitivity to minors is certainly good, you should have it these are young people. The main purpose of punishment must be the ultimate goal, which is to resociate and implement these young people on the right social path. Because all theorists will say that it is clear that children are not born as perpetrators of criminal acts and as delinquents but because of their lack of education, the poor influence of peers on addiction, domestic violence, lack of support in the local community or the environment. So certainly not by the guilt of minors but by the general sociological circumstances in which they grew up. Here, so I think this issue deserves a special law. I think that it is particularly good in this part in which the applicant pointed out, the applicant's representative pointed out that it is not only a matter of regulating the proceedings when a minor commits the work but also a regulated procedure that takes place before these courts, and that is also when crimes are committed to the harm of children. And it is good to specify this catalogue against the application of the current Penal Code, as well as the provisions of the Penal Code, which will be applied next year. It is equally good to lay down provisions on acquisition to point out that it is always handled in relation to minors on the principle of opportunity, therefore even in the case of multiple criminal offences to impose a single sanction that will be most effective in terms of individualising the sentence according to that particular minor or senior minor. As we have heard, the amendments to the law also stipulate that this educational measure can also be applied to the adult until the age of 21. It is also good to clearly establish, without prejudice, that it is prohibited for a State lawyer to examine minors if it has already been examined in the previous procedure and that it is in Article 7 which, where different from the text in the first reading, which is then specified in the provision on the conduct of a State lawyer after obtaining a notice from the detention officer about the arrest of minors. This principle so far which was that the lawyer could determine or order it now is otherwise formulated to say that the state attorney will either order or release a minor or bring before a youth judge for questioning that a situation could happen in which nothing is to be decided or in which an examination before a youth judge is required. And it is also good that there is a clear need for a provision under which, in the event of an inadmissible verdict, a minor is found in the educational institution that the court must decide whether to stay in that educational institution or to be released or sent to an investigative prison. So in any case, that court that decides in the second degree if it returns to the retrial that it has to decide where that minor is going to be, rather than the situation that he is in the office but is not known by the basis of what he is. Here are a few provisions which are specified in this text and other than the necessary alignment with the text of the second law, which is the Penal Code, we will support this draft law on amendments and additions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23907	Thank you. We will now hear the position of the SDP club and the respected representative Sandra Petrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23908	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, respected proposings. Amendments and additions to the Law on Juvenile Courts before us are primarily due to the fact that on 1 January 2013, the new Penal Code adopted last year and which, due to a long period of time, the vaccio legis has long been used by the applicant to adapt the remaining material and implementing rules to ensure its consistent and unequivocal application. Significant attention was also needed in this section to pay particular attention to the judicial treatment of minors or young people, given that the perpetrators of criminal offences as well as victims of criminal offences are also involved. The law on courts for youth states provides members of society who enjoy special protection, which are children and youth adequate treatment before the authorities of the judicial authority. Since children or young people have not enjoyed special protection or treatment in history of criminal law, and only in the 19th century have more advanced criminal laws begun to prescribe special offences that can be committed to harm children. We are talking about a relatively new trend that has finally been profiled through the 20th century and significantly improved through specially trained courts or judges dealing with this topic. Today we have a system of protection as we have in the Republic of Croatia. The Law on Juvenile Courts in a specific article and in this proposal, the law accurately catalogues criminal offences against children and minors for whom the Law on Juvenile Courts requires specialities in the procedure. It should also be said that the specificities of the procedure also relate to the specific composition of the councils acting in these cases, the specific way of examining children and minors are limited to the number of possible calls and examinations of such damages, etc. These files, due to their particular sensitivity, have a status of urgency in solving, and the proposal for this law clarifies the provisions on urgency in such a way that it also applies to all participants in the procedure. Furthermore, this is an exception to the penalty of refusal of testimony, the particularity of determining the local jurisdiction of the court, and the statutes of limitations stipulate that the limitation of prosecution for criminal offences committed at the expense of the child and the minors do not run until their age. In addition, this bill also brings us to improve the provisions on the conduct and powers of a state lawyer in the proceedings before the courts for youth, as well as the special treatment of the president of the council in the event of a plea and agreement on sanctions. When we talk about a special catalogue of criminal offences as prescribed in Article 113. The Law on Juvenile Courts is about criminal acts from different chapters of the Penal Code when they are committed to the harm of children and minors, and here they are intervened in the Law on Juvenile Courts in a way that adds criminal offences to the harm of children prescribed by the new Penal Code and thus avoid difficulties in practice as regards the application of the relevant law. The width of this catalogue of criminal offences shows the exceptional sensitivity of the Croatian legal system for youth regardless of the type of criminal offence that has been committed. The terms of criminal offences in criminal offences to the detriment of minors are also harmonised. If we talk about statistics on such offences against all accused and convicted persons, the largest share of the perpetrators of three types of criminal offences, or three crimes. The abandonment and abuse of a child or a minor, the violent conduct of the family and the violation of the duty of restraint. If we also take into account the issues against sexual freedom, we also see by the frequent injury that this is really about the legal treatment of persons who are due to their age and legal status in society under his special protection. This amendment and the supplement are regulated and adapted to the provisions on conditional convictions and adapted provisions on security measures, provisions relating to the expression of juvenile prison at acquisitions, the provision of reference to a disciplinary centre, further provisions concerning the examination of minors in the procedure and other provisions relating to compliance with the provisions of the new KZ. Provisions have also been amended which have been questionable or cause certain difficulties in practice and which ultimately lead to a common objective, which is to improve criminal proceedings against minors, minors and adult perpetrators to the harm of children. Following all of the above mentioned status of minors or youth before the judicial authorities, this proposal further improves and improves the SDP club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23909	Thank you. I'm concluding a debate on this agenda item. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23910	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Juvenile Courts, second reading, PZ No. 173. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I find that it is unanimous with 115 votes for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Juvenile Courts in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23911	We're moving on to the next point. It is - Final bill on the legal consequences of convictions, criminal records and rehabilitation, second reading, PZE No. 149 The draft law is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill's proposal in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice and the Committee on European Integration. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23912	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. We propose this law as a new law, namely the legal consequences of convictions, criminal records and rehabilitation were within the framework of the KZ, i.e. the CAP, but we believe that it is better to regulate them by special law, and it is a subject matter which, according to its content and impact, is related to each other. Namely, the legal consequences of the conviction take place on the day of the power of decision which determines the initiation of the crime and the sentence imposed. The legal consequences of the conviction are time-consuming, the rehabilitation takes place over a certain period of time after a sustained, pardoned or outdated sentence, and in order to establish these data, the criminal record is kept and it is logical and justified that this topic is covered by one law. The law also included our obligation to comply with international agreements, i.e. the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse and the EU Codes on criminal record keeping and exchange of data from criminal records. So here we have foreseen the keeping of criminal records and data from criminal records at the level of general belief and at the level of special conviction. The general belief shall be delivered at the request of specific bodies and under certain conditions. A particular belief is that it contains limited data from the criminal record for the precise and specific purpose. What is most significant, the most debated between the two readings is this Article 14 which is an exception to the general principle that no one has the right to require citizens to submit evidence of their condemnation or indemnity. We put an exception here, justifying it with a higher interest in protection in special types of criminal acts. We have therefore provided for the possibility that, if it is the establishment of a working relationship or the provision of a business whose conduct implies regular contact with children, the employer may, with the consent of the person for whom the data are sought, I am saying this because, of course, there is a need for the consent of a person to require that evidence of injure or condemnation be provided, request the release of a particular conviction on the information contained in Article 13(4) of this Law. So it is up to the employers to decide whether those jobs are adverted to whether they are jobs that involve regular contact with children and whether they are in the interest of making such tenders public for persons convicted of such a type of crime. The point of this provision is that it is actually preventive because we conclude that the person who is in the record recorded as the perpetrator of the crimes against the harm of children will not even report to such a competition because of course he cannot bring his indemnity to such acts because he is in the record. This is a provision that we consider to be the best possible arrangement in the circumstances of the principle that no one has the right to seek information about the indemnity or condemnation of citizens and, on the other hand, the need for children as the most vulnerable group of society to be protected in the best possible way. We've also arranged a special chapter on the delivery of data in international records. This is where we accepted, incorporated a Council of Europe framework decision on the organisation, content of data exchange from criminal records between Member States and the establishment of a European criminal record information system, i.e. ECRIS. So at European level, there is a criminal record that allows for the exchange of data at European level and of course our EU membership here will be such that it will enable us, and we are already creating conditions for this, i.e. by way of a degree of force of this law, we will be able to share these data at European level. We have also decided on the rehabilitation provisions, namely rehabilitation is the time it takes to after sentenceing the person who has been sentenced to establish those status rights which have and all other persons who are not convicted. That time is prescribed by law. We've intervened so much that for these crimes we're talking about, we've doubled our rehabilitation time at the children's expense. So, we have also given an emphasis on the necessity to measure the severity of these crimes by taking longer time to rehabilitate. There were suggestions to extend these rehabilitation deadlines even more after the double. However, we did not accept such suggestions because we believe that... Rehabilitation period enough, and yet we have to keep at some level that basic definition of our criminal justice system, which is realistic or as much as possible rehabilitation of the perpetrators of criminal acts in society in a way that gives them the opportunity to use our rights as other citizens. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's what's mostly been pointed out. We did not specifically intervene in the text compared to what we suggested in the first reading. We have nomotechnically added the terms 'forgiven' and 'obsolete' in accordance with Article 2(3). We have corrected this information and, of course, we have determined that the law enters into force on 1 January 2013, because this bill is also due to the need to comply with the main Penal Code which then enters into force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23913	Thank you. Would the committee's reporters like to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of Croatian Labourists – the party of work will speak to the respected colleague Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23914	Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Since this is a second reading of this law, we will be aware of our comments or suggestions on all the few articles that you have mentioned, some of which you have mentioned as articles that were the most discord or debate. However, you did not mention Article 12, which is my opinion if nothing else is a bit strange, so among other things, a person can only consider the general belief but cannot get it. The explanation offered by the promoter really makes sense given that we live in an environment of some let's even say honest and some wild capitalism where then it might really happen that an employer under an excuse can't win for you, but you can, so you owe me a copy of that. So when we take the aspect of the resociation of the people who committed some crimes, that makes sense. The bigger problem is with Article 14 which, frankly, no matter how many times I read it, I can't help thinking that he's rather clumsyly engaged. Because among other things, he says no one has the right to ask citizens to file evidence of their conviction or indemnity. This is the wording of paragraph 1. Paragraph 2 provides some exceptions, i.e. only to the exception when it comes to persons who are trying to establish a working relationship or who are entrusted with a business whose performance implies a prerequisite for contact and with children. I'm staying right now, maybe I'm not okay... but what about the Law on civil servants, where I am the law in Article 49 for admission to the State Service, cannot be accepted, states that all persons cannot be admitted to the State Service, so that they are persons against whom criminal proceedings are being conducted or convicted of criminal offences and are now listed against the lives, bodies, freedoms of the Republic of Croatia, etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] How the candidates for admission to the State Service will prove their indemnity when under this law, I find that incompatible under Article 14. If there's something wrong with my connection here, I'd be happy to have you reassure me, although I've been consulting with colleagues among other lawyers who say it's just like I read it as a layman. As regards Article 13(4), the suggestions of people who better monitor criminal law say that Article 173 should also be included there. Criminal law, or abuse of intoxicating drugs. The example that suggests that the more graphic this is, the more this situation turns out to be a little exaggerated and perhaps a little bit exaggerated. But let's just say a piece that's relatively rare, someone who's convicted of international, an organisation of international prostitution can't actually be employed at school, but that's why a drug dealer practically turns out to be able to. What's more, the proposal is to expand the catalogue with chapter 13. The Penal Code or at least to include the criminal offence referred to in Article 173. As far as Article 19 is concerned, if I'm not mistaken, I'm leaving it to everyone. The deputy lady herself mentioned that there were proposals of all sorts, or there were proposals that were not adopted. I'm still standing by the point of view, so even if someone rated me extremely conservative, but for some acts, rehab or any form of obsolescence, forgiveness or I don't know what, I'm primarily thinking about pedophilia and no matter how hard it is to believe that someone after the period of rehabilitation is going to be looking for a job in kindergarten that's never been excluded. And I don't see why it would be that way at all, I believe that everyone here would agree that it's probably the hardest form and that's why I don't apply the most drastic measure that simply for such things there can be no period of rehabilitation. There's something else that's not in this law, but I think it should be, and that's the surveillance of convicted pedophile after the release. Since our judiciary is not networked and that someone after such an act or serving punishment will likely change the environment and go live in another city, a bigger city, for example. Zagreb, hardly anyone will know about his actions before. For this reason, it would not, in respect of some other European countries, make a commitment that he must report any change in his stay and have some obligation to report. Some countries have gone so drastically that, say every three months, they have to apply, appear in the police department and report every change they make. It doesn't have to be three months, but I think six months is fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23915	Replica, dear Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23916	Thank you. Exactly on this final question of yours will just follow a few points of the Proposition Act where it is on this particular trail that goes if certain legal consequences of conviction or judgment are prescribed with protective supervision which would therefore be applied and in this case, you would then be in charge of testing arrangements that are much better than so far, which has been taking care of exactly what you are concerned about.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23917	Dear colleague Mladen Novak will respond to this replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23918	Thank you very much. I just don't see any reason why it doesn't stand in this law. I don't agree there, I think there's room for it to be included in this law. In the end, we'll hear probably the deputy missus about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23919	Now the HDZ Club's positions will be presented by respected counterpart Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23920	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support the adoption of this Law on the legal consequences of convictions, criminal records and rehabilitation. Of course, we have already expressed concern and doubt as to why this law is gone before, but here it will be in time because we believe that this area really requires a thorough normation by a special law. Namely, as we know so far, with several provisions of the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, this was certain, but certainly substantiated. And on the one hand, it's about the fact that records have to exist in the official register. The same is the matter of ensuring to anyone who has served the sentence that his basic human right is guaranteed that no one can call him for it and that he is considered a citizen with all rights as well as any other citizen. So we think it's good that this law is passed. There have also been a lot of talk in the public on the registration of persons who have committed a criminal offence against the child, especially in the area of sexual delicacies, so a coloquitally spoken pedophile for the protection of children and their prohibition of access to certain jobs or activities where they would come in contact with children. We therefore believe that in this legal text, it is good that he is in line with European legislation, with the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children from Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse, and that he has doubled the rehabilitation period in relation to the perpetrators of these offences and has made it clear by the provision of Article 13(4), which these are, precisely, what are the offences in the hereafter of the Penal Code, so to say to the future who will enter into force and this now applicable and existing Penal Code. He also introduced an exception to the fact that no one has the right to require citizens to submit evidence of their conviction or indemnity except for exceptional, this is the case, when it comes to establishing a working relationship or trusting a business whose conduct involves regular contact with children when the employer may request information on criminality for these specific offences, but with the consent of the data subject. And there's this exception, and I think Agent Novak has expressed his doubts about how this ban on employment in the state services for convicted persons will be carried out for some criminal offences when no one can request an excerpt from the record of punishment. But that's settled in a different way. This is what the law foresees, therefore, in Article 11 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union on the Functioning of the European Union, of the European Union and of the European Union. So the only employer, or only the state as an employer, has the right to request an excerpt from the criminal record to see that the person who wants to get a job but I would not say here exactly how the law has been smuggled into certain jobs, but practically for all the tasks of the state official, has the right to request information on punishment or impunity. There's one question I've already talked about, but the legislator didn't pay attention to that. It seems to me that she is not just or in some way domestic employers are putting a better or worse situation... however you like. It is therefore said that no one can ask for information about their punishment or impunity unless a person is required for the purposes of employment or abroad or for an international organisation. In this way, it turns out that if a person is employed by a foreign employer or somewhere abroad or in an international organisation or that they have the right to check on our citizens and ask them or whether or not they have been punished, and at the same time the home employer cannot. So I, if I make it up to the absurdity now that the only domestic bank is Post Office Bank, then when someone hires, they won't be able to check whether he might have gotten out of prison, served his sentence for serious embezzlement, but they'll say I don't know the Split Bank that owns the foreign or all the other banks in Croatia who own it. Here's what I think we should have paid attention to. One more thing, and this is the data I have seen that the applicant replied that it did not take that remark into account, which is an observation that says that the Ministry will provide to the commercial courts authorised to enrol in the court register a special assurance containing information on the safety measure imposed against the exercise of a particular duty or the activity of the founder or person authorised to represent. So it will necessarily be delivered to the court register. However, for craftsmen or persons authorised to represent or represent other legal persons, for example, the institution says it can do so. I don't see any reason why it would be a delivery obligation in the court register, not an obligation in these other registers, which means that for the institutions it would mean that someone would be able to hire there and that those who receive it or appoint it as the head office of that institution do not know that it has some stated security measure. The explanation of the promoters is that there can be some registers that they don't even know about, but we know very well where the trade register is headed and we know very well where the register of the constitution is being conducted, and we know where the register of associations is being conducted, because someone can also report as head of the association and buy funds from the state budget at the same time, while at the same time having a security measure to prohibit certain jobs that no one knows about alive. Therefore, in my view, in the opinion of the HDZ Club, in this paragraph of Article 3, paragraph 13 does not stand for a term, but must stand for an expression, so that it will necessarily be delivered to the registers which keep the lists of those legal persons or persons who would do something there and have a security measure, the more we have discussed earlier the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes, where it has just been typed into the form that will be delivered to the registers in which those legal persons are registered. So now, in one law on the same area, we have a prescribed obligation to deliver, and in the other we have one college delivery not to know under what criteria, and how will the ministry assess when it would deliver and if it did not deliver. In this respect, at least the amendment in this Article 3(13) should certainly intervene. Here are the main remarks to this final text. Otherwise we'll support him. I think this area should be standardized. I'd just like to say one more thing about the legal consequence of the conviction. The current law stipulates that the legal consequences of a criminal offence can only be prescribed by law. That's right. We have a series of laws that actually prescribe the legal consequences of convictions, so not in the Penal Code to determine a certain penalty that has the legal consequence of the imposition of certain prohibitions, etc., but we have a series of laws that prescribe that one cannot hire that one cannot change his name, that he cannot get asylum, that he cannot get citizenship, that he cannot deal with arms trafficking etc. one whole series of permits that prevents persons who are punished or convicted of certain criminal offences from exercising a person's right. I stress, it may have been undetected that so far in the KZ it has been determined what the legal consequences of the convictions that can be prescribed, so it was the termination of the employment relationship, the termination of certain tasks, the loss of military rank, the confiscation of state rights and recognitions, and can only occur if the perpetrator committed those crimes with intent and if he is sentenced to a prison sentence of at least one year. So there were some conditions when and how additional legal consequences of the conviction can be prescribed and it says that, for example, the ban on taking over a job in the state service ends 5 years after legal consequences. It is now stated by this law, so it has been left far and wide, it has been said that they must be prescribed by law and that the legal consequences of the convictions cease no later than 10 years after they have endured, forgiven or outdated prison sentences. We have seen that we have recently passed laws here, i.e. in the first reading where, for example, it defends a person's employment, and even when it's a criminal punishment and unity in the legislation, it should certainly be respected, so that there are no further serious consequences for the reason that it is something in the criminal sphere if we have properly assessed the weights and well placed them in the law of a criminal, or criminal sphere, precisely because it is a minor social evil that should not then be followed by such serious consequences of convictions, and in this case criminal punishment. Here are some dilemmas, but in general, we'll support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23921	We have a single replica reported. Honorable representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23922	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Lovrin, you mentioned my debate in that section about government employment. It's normal for me when someone goes to work to get everything they prove, means a testimony, a work book, all that expensive, so let's make sense that if they're looking for impunity, then they have to get proof of their own impunity. And it's clear to me that Article 11 is prescribed that it's actually going to be done by the state, but it's a little bit expensive for me, so I'm just alluding to the fact that it's a little bit expensive not to say it's clumsyly formulated. I don't think the wording of these articles is too good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23923	The replica matches the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23924	... I can kind of agree with you. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] In fact, it's quite unsystematic, now it turns out that the state will be allowed to ask from the register, so criminal records will allow the state, for the purposes of working abroad or whatever international organisation. So we put them in the rank of rights with the state and the employer in relation to jobs that have to do with children for certain criminal acts. However, what we have long pointed out, here you know that the certificate of impunity must not be asked of citizens, but they are very much asking for confirmation that no criminal proceedings are being conducted against the citizen and I think that this is completely unnecessary, unnecessary and can actually lead to severe disinformation. Why, because in practice it looks like this. We have no networked data on the conduct of criminal proceedings in all courts in Croatia. You, if you are employed in Zagreb, will ask employers to bring in, say, confirmation that you are not subject to criminal proceedings and will be brought in, it will be predominant that some of the courts in Zagreb and you will bring a certificate from the Municipal Criminal Court or the County Court in Zagreb. At the same time, however, you can be prosecuted in Split, Sisak or I don't know where. No one will ask you to ask for it or you would have to bring confirmation from all courts in the Republic of Croatia, which would be an enormous burden on the citizens, but only then would that information really be about not conducting criminal proceedings against the citizens. That's why I think as long as it's a non-network situation, it's completely unnecessary to ask for it because it can be untrue.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23925	We will now hear the views of the SDP club and the respected representative Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23926	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Reputed deputy minister, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. In the second reading, this original proposal for the law did not undergo any significant changes, therefore, except in Article 2(3) as regards final and transitional provisions which are not essential, and thus far it was expected that the debate so far would be somewhat compiled from the first reading. As pointed out in the first reading, it is good that the legal provisions governing this substance are laid down in a special law and that the provisions on the content and conduct of the criminal record, so to enrol, supply and delete data from the criminal record, are mainly provided for in a special law. The law in the proposed text also investigates positive legal standards... and the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children on Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse and with EU rules on criminal records, on the exchange of data from that record. Here is a well-used opportunity for the adoption of this special law to correct the existence of a certain one, I would say, under normity, which existed in this area because so far a total of 6 articles of the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act and the Penal Code were regulated by this subject, and hence, it was further discussed by the Criminal Record Regulation. It is certainly a better solution for the law as a regulation, so the higher rank to prescribe the possibility and insight of criminal records, structures, management, content, the possibility of data delivery and other issues related to the matter, in particular, I would say because of the importance of these issues. Although the legal consequences condemn the possibility of using data from... do not fall within the criminal and criminal sanctions themselves, I think that we can agree to have a kind of penalty effect which is manifested, for example, by the prohibition of the conduct of certain tasks or in the course of the stigmatisation of the perpetrators of a criminal offence which, in some cases, enables them in a later normal life as if the crime had not been committed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The main objective of the conduct of criminal proceedings on criminal sanctions should, of course, be to reform the perpetrators of the criminal offence and its rehabilitation, the length of the rehabilitation deadlines, the possibility of the various legal consequences of the conviction being realistically seen as an obstacle to that objective. Because, as the convicted people are pointed out, they get a kind of stigma. They are prevented from joining society as full members of society and thus have, perhaps they can be prevented in some way if they have a real will to repair themselves to become model members of the community again and therefore, to move on with their lives before committing a crime. However, it should be pointed out that the increasing incidence of particularly serious forms of criminal offences in which it is clear that the perpetrators show, and I would say total contempt for the social norms that violate, launder the legal order in general and other members of society that respect this legal order, and it is obvious that the perpetrator of certain criminal offences is considered by others, therefore those who do not and who respect the legal order of the persons to be cut, as sheep they use us, so that we realize that there are also such persons perpetrators or delinquents who simply cannot be resoluted. The company can and should only be effectively protected from such delinquents in such a way as to prevent them from committing criminal offences and it is justified that special prevention enables as long as possible an insight into the criminal past of such persons and that this prevents them from coming to the situation at all to restart the crime as long as possible. In addition to the perpetrators and the most serious forms of criminal offences within that group, it is certainly necessary to include persons who have received trust or those entrusted with the responsible social service or duty, and they have hardly used their position or duty to commit criminal offences. When I talk about it, especially in my head, the recents say from the drive, let's say, the leak of information that points to the sprawling and networking of the most responsible officials from the repressive and intelligence apparatus and the classical mafia, including influential politicians suspected of being involved in corruption. Because if the information is true, it's classified information on the development of an investigation against the so-called So-called. The pillars of society, influential politicians or persons that I call so much a mob leak to enable these politicians and these mobsters to prevent investigations and survive in their positions that govern lives, even hundreds of thousands of others at that time, to question the functioning, survival of the entire society as a whole. In addition to material damage, social damage is said to be immeasurable, greater than life. Such delinquents obviously fall into the water and all the noble and justifiable efforts towards rehabilitation and rehabilitation as the primary goal of criminal policy as it should be. Reading these comments by the readers in the context of these inscriptions, most often their association was extremely radical and resulting methods of prevention that had nothing to do with rehabilitation. I therefore believe that it should be said that in cases of corruption committed by public service or duty, as well as in the protection of children, the public interest that information on perpetrators is known to those concerned. Therefore, as in this case, Article 14 of the company's interest outweighs the need for convicted persons to make it easier for them to return to society. With regard to certain values they protect, risks that exist from relapsers cannot be allowed. And with that thought, we should really be guided by thinking about the further development of matter in the future. For all of these reasons, it is clear that a good measure should be found between the marking of the perpetrators of the crime which would lead to the fact that they would prevent the return to the social environment and the necessary needs of the society for the protection of relapsers. So, in the beginnings of the development of criminal law rehab did not pay too much attention but, of course, further development of matter we have come to a solution to allow the erasure of only your convictions and later development and according to the model full, so-called. full rehabilitation. Compared to the previous solutions, the deadlines of rehabilitation are somewhat extended in this proposal, which finds its justification in phenomena as I spoke of serious crimes, the stronger need of society to protect against re-decival delinquent delinquents. So this claus which has now gone from that model of absolute non-rehabilitation and life-long marking of perpetrators to mild or milder relations to delinquents and insistence, so that the primary task of the criminal system resociation is now again said I would justifiably return a little bit. Recognising therefore the social need to reduce this, perhaps excessively mild treatment of delinquents due to the frequency of serious forms of criminal offences in which the perpetrators thus show tenacity and contempt for the good protected by the provisions of the Penal Code. That it is certainly necessary to stress again and in light of some previous debates that the prevailing opinion is not good at turning the dominant opinion towards attribution as a purpose of punishment because this would have a significant retrograde and counterproductive effect. The growth of crime in general as well as the increased frequency of certain, therefore serious forms of crime are unfortunately only external manifestations of society's disease. This disease is largely caused by individuals who have been imposed under the supposed pillars of society or have been placed as guardians, in fact representing the work of society and the wider metastases that are contaminate and seen in the spread of general crime and the more difficult forms of criminal activity. This disease cannot be cured by penal measures according to the general population, but rather by attempts at prevention and surgical cuts directed primarily towards persons in charge and appointed to care for others or to be guardians. Simplified if, for example, A young person in a formative age sees that someone who is a prominent member of society, a man in a position to decide on the lives of thousands of others impunity makes abuses of his position in order to enrich his and his numerous pillows that he still celebrates and raises himself in the media, to enjoy great support, to have under the control of a repressive apparatus, police intelligence services so as to ensure impunity falls easily with the explanation that he forms a social worldview that would guide me to express myself so vividly on the dark side – he is the dark side, yes. Without the priority focus of all the bodies of the repressive apparatus, these are exactly what all stories of genius and special prevention of efforts towards rehabilitation and return to the right path fall into. It seems to me that in future developments in this segment of matter, a more individualised approach should be considered, depending on the assessment of the will of the perpetrator of the crime for resociation. The objectively set rehabilitation deadlines that are here in the proposal are an effective solution but may not achieve a pillar of the law in all cases. The individualised approach to rehabilitation of course requires greater engagement, but I believe that further development should lead to this. In general, by looking at such a perceived law which is now lex specialis in this area was found therefore by this law, a good measure has been found between the legitimate interest of society to enable, in certain cases, the insight into criminal records in order to prevent the perpetrators of criminal offences from committing those acts and the protection of the perpetrators' rights to rehab after the expiry of certain laws of prescribed time limits. It should be pointed out that the need to amend so far the rule on the legal consequences of the conviction has been respected because there has been some consideration in practice and therefore the fact that certain specific laws have become the need for the legal consequences of the conviction to be bound and with any conviction for certain criminal offences. It should also be concluded that the new law also allows for greater legal certainty for persons who have been rehabilitated by the legal regulation of their right to retain data from criminal records and by transferring the decision on the appeal to a solution which the ministry therefore refuses to demand that the rehabilitation took place and on... Administrations are now in the Administrative Court, thus ensuring more level of judicial protection. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The SDP will therefore support the adoption of the Law on the legal consequences of convictions, criminal records and rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23927	Thank you very much. Final word, the deputy justice minister's representative, Sandra Artuković Kunšt, respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23928	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs, so here's just for a little while. There are some points about the misunderstandings that, if I may further clarify the fact. So the basic intensity is what needs to be kept in mind and it is in this law as lex specialis explicitly stated. So no one has the right to demand evidence from citizens whether he was convicted or not. We have to distinguish here the belief of impunity. And what is now still sought, therefore, is the belief that criminal proceedings are not under way when a certain person applies for some kind of contest. It's different data and it's not the same, is it? This law refers to data from the criminal record, therefore to whether or not someone has been convicted, and that information can only be obtained by a certain national authority, at the level of the general data, in the case of a court, in the case of criminal sanctions, etc., what we have counted in Article 11 or may be given a special assurance, therefore targeted for a particular type of data, so that the full amount of data in question is not seen. And what we have particularly apostropheed here is this Article 14, so the question of whether there is a specific category of criminal offences that requires a higher degree of protection in view of the victims of these crimes. Yes, these are crimes against the harm of children and we have set out and prescribed in paragraph 2 an exception to this principle that no one has the right to request data on judgment or non-judgment in such a way that if it comes to establishing a working relationship or to entrust jobs that involve regular contact with children. That employer, who intends to fill such a place of employment, may request the publication of a particular conviction on whether or not criminal offences have been committed, that is to say, the offences referred to in Article 13(4), so to the harm of children. Of course, one who wants to do such a job will need to give consent to obtain such information. If he has been convicted of child harm crimes, he will probably not give such consent at all, but rather be a provision to clarify the possibility of such individuals being employed in jobs that can come into contact with children. I repeat, this exception is justified by a higher goal and by the interest of protecting the most vulnerable groups. We have been speaking here, i.e. we have received a complaint about a possible discrepancy with the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons. I think it is necessary to detect and distinguish that the delivery of a particular belief with the information contained in this law is an obligation of the Ministry, and this Law on the Liability of Legal Persons prescribes the court's obligation to provide the competent registry with information on such a verdict at the time when it imposes an unlawful and judicial verdict. So the ministry and the court aren't the same, are they? And what we've been saying about items that are ongoing for certain persons are not entirely networked, we're very well aware of that. It's all about networking, but it's not true they're not networked. Therefore, part and most of the data are now at the level of networking, those data which are not networked so in case a certain criminal proceedings are conducted in a court which is not the court of residence of that court which leads it is obliged to provide the court of residence with information on this. We will soon execute networking for all these courts that are now conducting proceedings in progress. But it's really not the subject of this law. Similarly, the subject matter of this law is not specific to perpetrators of criminal offences at the expense of children. We are certainly for psychosocial treatments and other forms of protection of the perpetrators so that rehabilitation is not complete but it is not the subject of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23929	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. A replica of the respected representative, Ana Lovrin, has been reported to your presentation. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23930	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's Madam Deputy Minister, we're very different from the confirmation that there's no criminal proceedings and criminal record confirmation, we understand what's been said. In my presentation, I only commented on the situation that a series of laws as a condition for employment are intended for a citizen to bring a confirmation that no criminal proceedings are being conducted against him. What I said in this state of affairs is factually prescribed, and that law actually, as I would say, is useless because it can be completely untrue. And in relation to this Law on Legal Liability, what I was saying is therefore irrelevant to who I deliver or how I deliver, when the court delivers when the ministry delivers. What should be the objective and the promotion of legal provisions we seek, therefore, to be the goal must be that in each register, either in the commercial court for companies or in the register of associations held by the authorities for associations, wherever the register of institutions is held, the trade register. If a security measure has been imposed on a legal person, be it a natural person or a responsible person that must write it in the register. We have now achieved that, in relation to legal persons, it will be mandatory for the court to deliver any measure to the Ministry, and the Ministry of Criminal Records should therefore continue to become binding that any court of any ministry imposed and executive security measures brings to registers that keep any information on institutions, companies or craftsmen.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23931	Thank you very much. Is it the Deputy Minister? No, I don't. Thank you very much. That's why we've exhausted the list of people reported for discussion on this subject. The debate on the text of the law is over. We'll vote when the voting conditions are met. Final draft law on the legal consequences of conviction, criminal record and rehabilitation, second reading, PZE No. 149. The debate on the text of the final draft law is over. The amendment was submitted by the esteemed representative, Anna Lovrin. I ask the Deputy Minister of Justice, respected Sandra Artukovic, to be shown about the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23933	Thank you very much. In relation to this amendment, the Government does not accept the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23934	Does anyone have an explanation? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23935	It is an exception from regular registers and the general provision is in paragraph 1, and this exception where the proposed change of word may be in fact a provision that describes exceptional situations when the official registers do not exist and we would not accept this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23936	Thank you very much. The applicant for the amendment is a respected representative of Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23937	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here I am sorry that you did not accept this amendment for the reason that the basic meaning and intensity is therefore that the security measures imposed, therefore those are prohibitions on the conduct of certain tasks, etc., that the Ministry of Criminal Records delivers a conviction about this. Under the current principle of law, only commercial courts are required to be provided in the register and to all other registers that keep registers of institutions, trade registers, etc. It's not necessarily delivered, it's just a college thing, so it can write. I believe that any register keeping the register of legal persons should provide a decision that a security measure has been imposed, such as a ban on the performance of an activity or some business, because those operating with those persons must be informed. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23938	I would like to make a statement about the amendment to the respected representative, Anna Lovrin, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that it is unanimous with 115 votes to pass the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes in the text as proposed by the Proposer without the amendments adopted. We move on to - Proposal for a decision not to give a credible interpretation of Article 15(2). The Law on Gender Equality (NN, No. 82/2008) The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Legislative Committee. You've received the material into the boxes. Does the promoter want to further explain, the proposal is Ingrid Antičević Marinović? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We're going to the club representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Labour and Honorable Representative Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23940	Thank you, Mr. President. Here I am today speaking to you on behalf of the Croatian Labour Labour Labour Club, but also because of the record and for the public, I am the parliamentary representative who seems to be the only one who does not understand this Law on Gender Equality and the obligations of political parties that in the third election cycle the sub-represented sex on the lists must be 40%. The opinion of the government that we have of course said that the law is very, very decided, very clear and that it is very well known what it is and when it is the third election cycle. What makes me particularly sad is that this is not the only law that we have voted in this assembly in such a way that we ourselves are not quite sure what we have voted for and when we need to apply it. The thing to which I would specifically point out is Article 7 of the same Law on Gender Equality which states that indirect discrimination exists when neutral legal norm, criterion or practice puts persons of one sex in a more unfavourable position than persons of the opposite sex, unless that legal norm is objectively justified by the legitimate objective and the means to achieve that objective are appropriate and necessary. I would like to get from the Government of the Republic of Croatia with this interpretation that the law is also clear and decided and the interpretations which are criteria and which is a practice that objectively justifys this legitimate objective that the Law on Gender Equality and the mandatory presence of at least 40% of the sub-represented sex on the parties should apply only from 2019. We are witnessing that daily in our Croatian public stands, gatherings, forums of certain parties, activists of certain parties in which these same politicians or activists are against such a decision of the government, but when we need to talk about it where we should be heard most, and this is here after this speaker or in an individual debate, then we are gone. I do not understand the third election cycle because from the point of view of the DIP that the concept of the electoral cycle refers to a normised time gap in which elections for certain political bodies or political positions are held. In that sense, the notion of regular elections refers to elections for any level of government held within the prescribed regular period, i.e. which are not extraordinary, which legislation was passed in 2008 logical thinking was that the third election cycle was local elections in 2013. However, under this third election cycle, only elections for parliament are made which I certainly do not feel is good again because when setting out and proposing a list of candidates, i.e. candidates for the election of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, for the selection of members of the representative bodies of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, as well as for the selection of members of the European Parliament of political parties and other authorised proposings are obliged to respect the principle of gender equality and to take account of the balanced representation of women and men on election lists in accordance with Article 12. Gender equality laws. So here we have a case where again what we are saying is not applied in practice, where we are contradictory to ourselves, and as much as this Law on Gender Equality is irrelevant to someone in Croatia, it is essentially an example of how we behave when it comes to all other laws. We are signatories of all forces of the convention, of the declaration, of everything possible that comes to our table, we sign it neatly, we advocate gender equality, and then at one point with one simple decision we fall to the exam and it is normal to ask the question why and why. The goal of gender equality is equal representation of men and women, not only in politics but also in social life. It turns out that women are good and necessary to our society when it comes to volunteering in various associations, when it comes to cooking fellow Vinkovic, when it comes to being on the pedestal as you say, but when it comes to participating in political power, when it comes to participating in making decisions concerning our daily lives, then women are not very desirable. It is also sad that women who are in the Parliament who once come not only to the Parliament but to the unit of local or regional self-government forget essentially that women's struggle for their rights and maybe that's what bothers the most and what hurts the most. I know that a lot of political parties in Croatia simply don't have enough women to meet the 40% criteria, but this is how it turns out with one government opinion that, let's say, while it was in opposition it was the amendment when the law was passed for the third election cycle to be in the local elections in 2013, it is now simply deafening to the government's position and again we see that in this Assembly hall they and the government's opinion are not good for individuals and what we live on a daily basis. And I just believe that all women in the Republic of Croatia will know all possible forums and all possible round tables that happen in terms of gender equality in Croatia in a quality way and that all these women in Croatia will know exactly who is fighting for them, where and how. The duality has led us right to where we are today and we will pay not only until 2019 but much, much longer and much more. If we're not principled to ourselves, if we don't advocate our views and some kind of belief where we need to advocate them, then it's essential to discuss more about any attitudes if we let someone else manipulate us at all times and on every matter. The goal of equality should be half-and-a-half. We introduce specific measures if we do not satisfy this, when the sub-representation of one sex is less than 40% in relation to another sex, we should take certain actions and certain activities, we should be honest with ourselves, honest with the world and honest with all those whose declarations and resolutions we sign. Unfortunately, this kind of thinking and thinking is just another new confirmation of our everyday life that we have one face here at home, towards ourselves, and that we try a mask and a nicer face set up towards someone else who still asks us to become and be a civilized, democratic society in which women and men will enjoy equal rights. Unfortunately, we're still a long way from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23941	Thank you very much. We have five replicas on your exhibit. Peja Grbin first, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23942	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues, I disagree with you. I personally believe that the Law on Gender Equality is clear, but that is not his problem. The problem with this law is, by my judgment, that it is not implemented to a sufficient extent and that it is not good and that it needs to be changed. I consider personal financial punishment to be bad and insufficient. If we want to achieve gender equality on the lists, then we can only impose one sanction, which is that the list on which gender equality is not achieved cannot be accepted and such a list cannot participate in the elections. Only when we introduce it will we ensure that those parties that you mentioned try and engage in their ranks are members of both sexes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23943	Replication response, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23944	I'm not surprised that you don't agree with me in my presentation. The aim of this point right now that we have here is not the Law on Gender Equality and Penalty, or Sanctions to Parties that do not, here they participate with the percentage of the sub-represented sex on their party lists. Unfortunately, we are still very, very far from those sanctions for political parties that do not respect these principles. And that's 2019 if, because the way we're going it's probably going to be in 2029. Obviously, the problem is we don't understand what we're talking about. We're talking about an interpretation of a provision that says that sub-representation is carried out gradually. The law was passed in 2008, that up to the third election cycle, we have to respect the 40% sub-represented sex quotas, think about whether women are participating and having the right to participate with our laws in the lists for local and regional elections, if they have a participation on parliamentary elections lists, if they have the right to participate now in the elections and for the EU, then what to do only for elections, the third election cycle for parliamentary elections. And I think personally, and this is the attitude of most women, that interpretation is not realistic, that interpretation is not an objective team anymore that the attorney for gender equality is the same as the independent body gave its interpretation and also says that the law is completely clear and that this has to apply to local elections 2013. We come to the situation that the law is clear, the government is clear, the attorney is clear, the government's Gender Equality Office is clear and we are ultimately discussing it as much as we are discussing.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23945	Replica Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23946	Thank you. To comfort you, Comrade Tyrelli. You're not confused and you're not stupid, that you can't understand a very simple law. There's more of us. We were also discussing this law at the club, talking to at least 20 colleagues and colleagues here and getting 20 different opinions, and it's clear to everyone. The lawyers I spoke with are also confused, the director of gender equality is confused, the State Election Commission is confused. It is not really clear to all of them what should be done now when the law should be applied. Only the government, the government is immediately clear because the government took the mind of this world at the moment of the election. And to them it's all clear. There's no dilemma at all. And to remember when this law was passed in this House, the SDP had an objection to the law that should be applied earlier and that it should be clearly entered inside. HDZ was against it. Well, the law is passed. And instead of now applying that observation of yours and saying that, the interpretation is what it's supposed to be, just like we talked about in 2008. You claim everything is clear in the law as HDZ claimed in 2008. I'm not clear on those views, and I'm even less clear on why we're passing laws that need to be interpreted like this afterwards. Well, there's a calendar. Why are we talking about election circles, election cycles, these kind of choices? Why don't we say the law applies from 1.1.2012, thirteenth, I don't know what years from the calendar date and enter inside. Because look, the clarity of the law, actually the assumption is the rule of law. When laws are interpreted like this, there is no rule of law...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23947	Thank you very much. The answer to Nancy Tyrell's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23948	A colleague of Vuljanić's yes, that's what I tried to explain in my statement. I guess I wasn't clear enough. I didn't say the thought I had until the end. It also confuses me if we have advocated some sort of opposition, we have made amendments to some of the laws we disagreed with, so that in our belief with the amendments we would try to influence these laws to be better because it is in fact the purpose and purpose of the amendments and the opposition and any parliamentary representative. Why, when we come to power, we fall on such a banal exam that no amendment to the conduct of representation, the sub-represented sex in the local elections is 40%, we say it's clear, it's decoded and it's been conducted here since 2013. What pleases me in all of this, let's make this bit of hope at the end of that tunnel so to speak is one conclusion of the Committee on Legislative Law which also agreed that it is not really clear and with which here is the Committee on Law to propose to the Government to amend the Law on Gender Equality in a way that makes this clearer and that this question is finally defined. However, I do not believe I know that it will not be applied again to the local elections in 2013. And also, you said exactly not even the State Election Commission can interpret this law. Because when I asked them if it was applicable, or if it was going to be used now since 2013 they simply said we don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23949	Replica Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23950	So I think that here in some way I have actually met the SDP with the Croatian reality and then through this encounter with the Croatian reality as it is tried to escape through various legal acrobatics. I just think we should, we can also decide that Croatia's GDP should be 90% European, but we simply won't be able to do it, even if we publish it in the National Journal from 1.1 next year. So there's something called reality. And the fact is that at this point in the rural environments of the Republic of Croatia, practically no party can achieve this 40 % requirement of women not because political parties do not like women or would not want to be women on their lists but simply because in the good part of rural areas, the situation is such that you cannot make quality lists of real that would have 40% of women represented. It is simply a Croatian reality. It's not a question of love or trouble. Or you can be in a situation where you violently fill out your lists just to find women on them. But you don't do anything about it, so it's not a quality that you'll be able to place from 13 places 6 names and last names of women. So let's be realistic, so I think we can create some institutional pressure but we should also accept the fact that things are happening gradually and that they can't be violently because there's some kind of political press stuff only at one point change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23951	Before I give you an answer to the replica of the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Gurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23952	... My dear colleague, you insulted the Rules of Procedure of Rule 204 when you said it was not a quality. [[Speakers off the mic, you don't understand.]] You have offended all of us Parliamentarians, Vice President of the Parliament and all of our women. Why wouldn't a colleague be a quality list where I don't know 15, 40 or 60% of women or all women? Excuse me, please apologize to all women in Croatia. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23953	Please! Replication response, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23954	Comrade Vinkovic, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, Well, I agree with you colleagues in the part where you say it's the reality of Croatia. I don't agree with the part where you talk about rural women. We in Croatia have all the strength of projects, strategies, sublegal acts where we try to activate these women in rural areas, but if we start to deprive them of their rights, then the question of what they will and will do and where they will go. However, here I knew that the debate would go on in this course, especially I had thought if my colleague Vinkovic came forward I must have some arguments that would be firm so here I tried to get the activity of the MPs and the representative to pull out from the first to the fourth session in this session. Women mate with 25%, men with 75% in this meeting of the Croatian Parliament and it is evident that wherever clubs perform as representatives clubs for 15 minutes, women have less turnout, or less minutes to say so. However, where there is an individual debate, regardless of what we are only 25% in the individual debate, we participate at 33.46%, and women, given the percentage of participation, are therefore in the individual debate, and we have 694.74 compared to 464.60 male colleagues. Therefore, as far as individual debates are concerned, women are more active here in the parliamentary council, which once again confirms the rule that they still rule that clubs on behalf of clubs are always predicated to represent them as men.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23955	Thank you. We now have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23956	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Government
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23957	The Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23958	I'm sorry, I'm in the budget all the time, so I'm still at the government. So, Vice President of the Parliament. A colleague of Đurdjica Sumrak has injured the Rules of Procedure under Article 216, and that is only because she has really accused my colleague Đurovic of saying she has accused or wrongly accused him of something he has not said, and the other one that has completely missed the ID according to Article 204, which is in connection with the material being delivered to the representatives. So I don't know what Djurovic was saying about the material being delivered to the MPs, that's why. ... So it says 204. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23959	Please don't throw it out of the bench. Zoran Vinkovic's injuries to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23960	Article 216, which refers to, colleague Nancy, but here I am asking on behalf of gender equality not to assign that warning, but I don't think a colleague believes she's psychic, that she's a prophet, that she deals with black magic, and she knows what I'm going to say on behalf of the club. Do I look like a woman hater to you? I don't think so! But I don't think it's in any other sense where I say most women might think something. So wait till I talk, and then if you see it going in some other direction where you think it's going to go and I assure you I won't talk like that. As for fellow Djurovic, he has not offended any MPs or women.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23961	None of these corrections, or any of the three violations of the Rules of Procedure, were actually a violation of the Rules of Procedure. You've all made arguments, opinions. Everyone has a right to their own opinion, and if someone performs as the public does, they will evaluate his thinking. Comrade twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23962	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Tirelli, here it is, and for this whole debate, you see how women are even thought about. Then all the articles of the article and everything, no matter the insult, let us justify ourselves by which article and item we did not insult. Well, that's exactly what we've been preparing for, that in this election cycle, women can do their dues and their activities within and for the parties, but also the whole society in which they are participated as well as in government, that means on party lists and everywhere, and we personally prepare our women on the ground for them to realize that it's not that, but only for about 10 or 15 years, which is very far away. I'm personally very sorry, I think, but I'm also sure the SDP MPs share our opinion, but here's the party's discipline is such that otherwise you can't, but you have to take this position that this is currently going on 2019, not 2013. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23963	Replication response, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23964	Comrade twilight, I agree with you in this section when you say we have to take a stand, we're not going to tell anyone what kind of attitude we should have when and where we're busy, we think that all of us here have some attitude. Unfortunately, however, the fact that when we're out there somewhere on the ground we tell a story, and when we're here, we're telling a whole other story, and it's not good, we're losing credibility, and there's this, this slippery terrain where we slip so often and fall to break our own head, so I think we should seriously work on it, but first each and every one of us is, because the worst and the hardest part is still personal responsibility to something.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23965	colleague of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23966	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, dear colleagues. I'm afraid this debate could go into some ridiculous sphere, so I appeal to my colleagues and colleagues that we really stick to the subject, the topic is very serious and the encouragement of MPs Tyrelli is very serious. I was thinking one thing in 2008 so when we sent this law into procedure, today I think something else, because it's been a long time, and I agree now, and I agree with you today that not only does it need a credible interpretation but I think it's necessary to change the law absolutely to specify it. In these past four years, nothing really happened to what everyone here wanted me to believe, and everyone in the government at that time, when we represented this fundamental principle of equalising the number of women and men, that is, how the law says the sub-represented sex brings up at least 40%. The problem is, and I say it very clearly, fully aware of what I'm about to say and perhaps a reaction to it. It's simply because of that, counterpart Tyrelli, which is why most politicians, so I dare say politicians, when they talk about gender equality, especially in politics and other parts of life, but especially in politics, they say that with a fig in their pocket. Because most politicians, and I say some politicians actually think that being a politician is something that's secured space for men, that it's the job of men, and that they can do it best, and that right where power and money are actually going to be decided by men, because no matter what you do as a politician during your life, there's always a time when someone, even from your own colleagues, tells you that you're actually going to do home cooking, kitchen, pot, lid, that you're doing it with the scribes on your head, and that you can actually deal with family and children and in the political space, and in that way, ladies and gentlemen the problem is, so let's change the law, let's specify every provision. Who can't fulfill it, there's nothing to ask in politics in... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23967	Thank you very much. The answer to Nancy Tyrell's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23968	Thank you, colleague Kosor. Here's the deal, and I'm signing everything you said. Yes, in one part I even regret these male colleagues who say go home, cook and raise children because they are basically cut off for that beauty and child rearing and all of what we women do. It's not at all a question of what, are we talking about female participation in politics right now, by any chance we've updated this in view of this issue given the local elections next year. However, the problem of equality and relations applies to all spheres in our society, and there is a fundamental problem of our problem, because if a woman as a man, as a partner, we do not recognise her as a equal in politics, and if we conduct such discussions or get similar opinions, then we ask ourselves how we just treat her there in some rural area where no one is protecting her, how we treat her at work where the employer is, where we have to keep our jobs, and then we bring laws and mobbing, and laws on the rights of this and the defender, and all possible strong laws, and we forget to be the basic human principle and that we are all equal and that we should all go from the same positions and then some knowledge, will and desire of each individual prove where his borders and to where he can go, and finally stop people from dividing to men, to women, to beautiful, less beautiful, dumber or stupider. So that's why we're people that exactly with everything that we are and what we know shows how much we're worth.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23969	SDP club and counterpart Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23970	Thank you, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, our dear colleagues. Speaking on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, we must immediately say that we support the opinion of the Legislative Committee that no credible interpretation of this provision is given because we consider it clear. The second question is, and there are apples and pears mixed here, whether that norm is good or not, but the law and respect of the law is our policy, not its ignoring. Whenever a question arises whether a provision should be interpreted in this way because each norm and in application of the interpretation requirement, however, whether to respond with credible interpretation or amendments to the law will all legal practitioners but also theorists tell you on their own because of the principle of security and legality that it is always better to change the law. In fact, the question has been raised to repeat again because of the public, which is controversial in the law. In law and that caused a fight between us. For the purposes of Article 12(3), the contested provision shall be as set out in Article 12(3). The law on gender equality which determines that the gradual increase in the sub-represented sex, which we women must achieve at the latest on the occasion of the implementation of third regular elections. The question has now been raised whether to count both local and regular elections and local national parliamentary elections in these third regular elections. The government is also of the opinion that these are two separate processes and that they should not be mixed, and unfortunately each election cycle must be counted for regular parliamentary elections and for regular local elections. In fact, we talk a lot about interpreting the law so let's remind ourselves what it is to even interpret, that interpreting the law's meaning is one logical thought operation whose goal is to determine the true meaning of the law, to determine the content and range of the law itself, and at the moment it applies. The interpretation is inevitable and let us not confuse the interpretation that has been regularly applied since the authentic interpretation which is practically passed by a new law or a new provision other than that which was until the authentic or credible interpretation of the law came into force. So there are rare situations that do not cause the need for interpretation. For what? Due to the imperfection of language indetermination of the concepts served by the legislator, due to the high degree of abstraction and generalisation that each norm and must have in order to cover as wide a range of situations as possible to appear in practice as well as to the different formulations of legal regulations. Only interpretation actually one regulation moves into life and action. Now only the meaning of the legal text for interpretation must be base and starting point. And I will repeat here the limits of this interpretation must rely on the principle of legality. Please, if we were to interpret the law and drown from the very text where there is legal security of citizens, I say generally not because we like to apply one norm one way or the other. Therefore, the meaning of the principle of legality is a top principle which is valid in law and which must not be violated even because of such interests. When there is doubt about what the legislator was going to say or what we were going to say a few years ago? And then first of all, first of all, the language interpretation comes first of all the historical interpretation. Let us go back a little to history in all those materials that are so called when this method is applied, and the materials that have resulted in such a norm were mentioned here and you see it as an argument to give an interpretation because the SDP club then proposed an amendment because he was aware that the law was perfectly clear and that it was not good for women. And that's why we proposed an amendment, he was rejected at the time. Therefore, this situation can only be resolved by amending the law but not by all. What am I trying to say? That the parties who preceded it did not need such norms because the norm that we understood in the SDP was both men and women, and so we acted, and that it was not only quotas but the number of women that SDP puts on the list the total percentage of women's participation in the Parliament would be far more miserable. I'm not even saying we're satisfied. And we're pushing to simply introduce quotas, not 40 I think we should go close to 50%. Some say we can't find literally so I quote "in rural areas of a high-quality woman". No, please, and you can find... Whenever a woman's position is discussed and puts her on the list then she discusses quality as if they're all quality. So please be nice. Now the local elections are coming and why should we wait for the amendment of this law in the first place? Who's defending which political party to put 52% of women on their list? Let's show ourselves here, not by switching the ball and finally calling for such an interpretation or something to have some kind of paper victory. If a different interpretation were to be interpreted, they would have a legal increase and in practice they would have the same. And local elections are even more drastic, and local elections are from women and women's positions. How does he manage home budgets? How thrifty is it, and what are the priorities especially in times of crisis? No one says that both the divers and the mono jumps are nice for one city and the order of the squares, but in times of crisis, we need a woman's ability and a woman's way of thinking that sees better those priorities, which are better not only for her, but for the whole family, for the quality of life, but not for showing. Therefore, no one defends us under the existing law, under our obligation to do so gradually, we put women on the list, and I believe that the time will come very soon that they will not accept lists that do not have 40% of women and what kind of politics men have led to and in whose interest they do not have, so I can't find women. Therefore, we at the SDP club supporting this opinion of the Committee on Legislatives continue to stand firm, perhaps stronger than ever before, that politics is too serious to be left to men.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23971	Thank you, colleague. Anna Lovrin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23972	Vice President. Well, colleague Antičević, here's a bitter lecture on the institute of credible interpretation. I would agree as an advocate of legal certainty that the institute of credible interpretation was asked, but then you had a chance, you changed the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, you could have kicked that institute out of the Rules of Procedure because it was actually one of the priorities of this Eastern European legal system. But it can't be used by the institution of credible interpretation according to the party's interests as it will and on the trail of what you've said, I don't know if you remember a long time ago out there in 2001 it seems to me that when you were also president of the Committee on Legislatives, so when you interpreted the Law on Local Self-Government in the way that you saw that you didn't get it very well, then you and the Institute of Reliable Interpreting completely changed the meaning of the entire law on headship, and then that institute was good, of course, because it was used when ex tunc should be used. Why is it legal uncertainty, because credible interpretation works ex tunc, and the amendment of the ex tunc law from now on, and it's been working since then, so that's how it works. Therefore, credible interpretation applies to the existing law of validity for it, and the amendment of the law is valid for pro futuro. That's the difference. It might still be credible if, in parallel with this government order, there was no credible interpretation if then the government also suggested amending the law and resolved the fundamental question of that law but no proposal for amending the law, and it is said that the law is clearly in the opposite direction of what was the intensity of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23973	Replication response, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23974	You're telling your colleagues that the institute of credible interpretation is a product of the Eastern legal system and that it doesn't exactly need it... to apply or maybe leave. He came from the north or south, so his geographical origin, I don't think he's got the quality. I don't think we should discriminate, but when we make people out of the world at least, it's number one. And as for what you're saying about giving a credible interpretation, I'm glad, I remember that case and such an interpretation that is really rarely given, and it didn't go beyond the content and text itself, and that's one example maybe that should have given such an interpretation. Even though it confirms this, and I think we've agreed on that, and we all agree here, it's better to change the law than to make such recommendations that we've found ourselves in. And it's also true that someone is perfectly clear, but for other reasons, so you don't have to give authentic interpretation, credible interpretation, and others are clear, others also think you shouldn't give it but from a completely different point of view.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23975	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23976	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, fellow Antičević, I would agree absolutely with you in 3/4 of your debate, especially in this area, but this beginning, namely when you spoke of interpretation really here in 2008 was an interpretation as it was and I personally thought in some laws, and especially in this case that you would be very busy, not you personally but in SDP to change it and that you simply interpret it in a way that it is from now on and that it is now. It's tools, you know what we're talking about. It's simply because a lot of the laws you've passed now, and yet they've ruined everything that was well-proposed, let's say, last year and last year, so I thought we'd find some kind of female consensus on this matter, given that you're in power to fight it. But who knows why it's important for your political colleagues not to change.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23977	Replication response, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23978	So I... that indeed... the time and that is so in other Parliaments that regardless of because only some more significant shifts in reality can be made when women no matter which party they belong to stand up for so-called. Women's interests which are essentially of general interest and that unfortunately we must leave the past time when the Prime Minister rejected this amendment. So I would not go back to that past but to see, and in practice, regardless of the lack of such a forced norm, we are actually showing what we are saying to be strong and how much we can apply in practice in these local elections because the fact remains that women are harder to vote on than citizens want to vote for them. Citizens are happy to vote for women.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23979	Dinko Buric's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23980	Thank you, Madam Vice President, dear colleague Anticevic. I have to agree with you in the part where you talked about the role of a woman, i.e. setting women on not only the party lists but also in public life very often carries with her and a higher degree I would say responsibilities and relationships to the obligations that arise. It just doesn't have to be an exaggeration, you know that it doesn't turn out that men are then the people who can't master and can't behave responsibly. But you were right, and that's why I came forward to point out that it's not only important that we put women on the list because we respect certain regulations, but because we really trust that if a woman can carry three corners in the house as it is said that it can also be in politics. But politics isn't just about the list. Politics is also important in, for example, the head of offices in cities, in municipalities, in counties, in ministries, etc. And in that sense, I'm going to say, here I'm deliberately glad that now, I've tried to analyze what it's like in the county where I come from. We've got 10 offices in County where, uh, 10 headmasters. The fact is, out of those ten frontal guys, five are women, and five are men. That's about 50%. That's how it happened. And I can tell you that each of them's responsibility to work is equal, so I wouldn't generalise that women are more conscious and responsible, but I admit to them that they have a lot of right to participate in public life, not just in family life. But let's not stand up in that trap of generalization and go to the other end to discriminate on men.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23981	Reply to the replica Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23982	It's the least I can think of to discriminate against men. When men are discriminated against, women are also discriminated against. I think that today every man and every woman must be a feminist, because that means knowing that men and women are not equal. It's our fight together. And when will she reach a colleague? You say three corners of canton, the corner of the house is held by women. And as long as that's the case, and we have a house of four cantons, out of four corners, women won't be able to deal with at least not in that critical mass of politics. So in one house that has 4 corners, 2 angles hold men and two women. It is our policy, that men now dominate politics become more private and women in terms of their engagement more publicly then we can also talk about the truth of what we all strive to have 40 to 50%... And I'm telling you that's the quality of life. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So what kind of state is this, what kind of society that gives up 52% of its brains and abilities in advance? And don't tell us women are nice, women are beautiful. We don't need that. We need equality and participation in politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23983	And the last replica, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23984	Here I thought I'd contribute to this debate. But I think that, regardless of the strong and good desire to come to this great equality, the last parliamentary elections have also shown that quantity cannot overcome quality. We have an example of the 7th constituency where one party went out with a list of 14 women to the polls and got 2 and a half percent. It was HSP. I think this society is still facing certain stereotypes and traditional values. And when it comes to political life that we still vote in a different way, and then being a woman or not being a woman, being a man or not being a man is not the most important thing. Although I support efforts to bring this part of the quota closer to what women love. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23985	But it's not about being on the list just women, it's about being evenly distributed between sexes. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23986	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, here I am sorry that there is no representative Tyrelli now. But the HDSSB club will support this proposal. And you can look at yourself in wonders. Mrs Tyrell's proposal, and it will not support this unworthy interpretation of the government of the Republic of Croatia. Because the fact is, I'm sorry there's no one here in front of the government, and I'm sorry that on behalf of other clubs it wasn't the men who spoke, it was the women. Because this isn't about the feminist movement. This is about gender equality between men and women. So these proponents, so to speak feminist passwords and messages aren't bad, but they're not closely related to this topic that we need to discuss today. And I'm going to start with another thing that my colleague Ingrid said about politics being too serious to give in to men. I'm sorry she's not here, so maybe that's true, and maybe this is the announcement of her candidacy for the post of SDP president, for the post of Prime Minister because obviously politics is too serious to give in to the president of the government who's been skiing today, who wasn't defending a budget that wasn't in the Parliament whose government didn't do the amendments, but probably by phone, they said no, and that's it. Otherwise, in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, in the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, Article 14 states that everyone in the Republic of Croatia has rights and freedoms independent of his race, skin color, sex, language, religion, political or other belief, national or social origin, property, birth, education, social position or other characteristics. And it says that everyone under the law is equal. But I'm asking a question not wanting to insult any woman here, is it just a condemnation for women if in the Law on Gender Equality exactly that women are a sub-represented sex? As I recall, that particular name was sought by women. So it wasn't the men who said that women were sub-represented sex, it was the women. So I don't consider women to be a sub-represented sex because it's also contrary to the provisions of the Constitution. They're just an equal sex. On the other hand, three election cycles have long passed and whether credible interpretation of the government, the advocate for gender equality, or all of us sitting here in the Assembly is needed. It's this year 2013, it's not the year 2019. My fellow SDP colleagues, if you allow six more years to stretch that exploitation, and I'd say exploiting women and creating a truly sub-represented sex, I ask you what's wrong with that password of yours -- half the sky, half the country, half the power? Obviously, you've been prolonging that parole for six years. Or is the second question whether you yourself are willing to take that one responsibility precisely in this hard, unworthy interpretation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia? This is where we open the question in any case of these electoral lists and I don't really want anyone to be offended. I'm against percentages, against legal provisions. Why does it have to be 40%, why isn't it 90%, why isn't it 100%? Is that percentage of 40% and women on that list that they're convinced that they came to that list of parties anyone's party in any election just because they're in that 40% and only because they're women or are on that list not because they're women but because they're gonna know how to do better than any man? There is certainly a question of young people because there have also been pensioners, I don't mean a retirement party, but there have been such interpretations that the law needs the same logic as 40% of women's lists should be young, should be old and certain forums have been established, etc. Are these young people on those lists just because they are young or because they have the ability and knowledge that if they are elected, either the city or the municipality or the county or this Republic is advanced and that there is a better life in it. There is the most visible issue and behaviour of parties when they are in opposition and when they are in power. So, when the opposition is, then we'll stand up for everything, but when we're in power, then what we're up for in the opposition, we can't spend and give up and extend certain things. As far as certain excuses are concerned, Djurovic did not say in his replica that in rural areas or rural areas, quality women cannot be found, on the contrary, but he told one other truth and because of the tradition that someone here talked about and because of the very environment because Croatia is not Zagreb, Croatia is not big cities for various reasons women do not enter politics. And not that you're going to find it very hard, but they don't want to do politics on their own. That's what my colleague Djurovic said. On the other hand, there's another problem for me that in a certain level of colleague Ingrid a little bit, I'm not apologizing for saying that it's hate speech, but it's one speech that offends me every man not only here for MPs in the Parliament but for every man. There's no job for me, no job for our club, which can't be done in quality by women and men. When I speak in quality, I don't mean certain types of jobs that I think are strictly related to women's sex or some kind of business that are exclusively related to male sex, but in most cases, I think women and men can do certain kinds of jobs equally. I know that many people here didn't expect this affirmatively, I don't keep a fig in my pocket. As for the house three corners, four corners, it's a family matter, so whoever at a given moment can hold those corners, or, in Slavonia, we say the corners of that house, I'm safer when a woman is holding, not because she can't do any other kind of work but by me far better quality and does it than I do, and I'm not defending her from doing politics or doing any other kind of work. As for the apology of my colleague Sumrak, I think that both governments, not men and women, but both governments should apologize to all citizens of Croatia and men and women who have made this Croatia, which in this Croatia is over 350 thousand unemployed, which we have touched the bottom, which is why no citizen in Croatia was a man or citizen of women has a perspective, which is why young people leave Croatia, which is bad living, which is why we have workers who, regardless of all these laws, have not been paid after 6 and 9 months, so we have to apologize. I don't want any more, but I'd like to open up another question that's about equality. Some here have told me that I've had the speech of the worst beer, hate speech, which is ladies and gentlemen representatives of the Kukuriku coalition with another kind of gender to call it that, LGBT persons, where those in ZIDZPP are acne, which is with that business capable woman, if it says that they're all equal before the law, then I suggest without a figure in the pocket to determine the quota on the party lists, and for such persons, with us on the HDSSB list not having such a person, I am responsible for saying that because we are a conservative party, the Croatian party pro-Europeanally oriented, and that's that. So the HDSSB club supports the initiative of MP Tyreli, and rejects the unworthy interpretation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia that I would say not of the gender, but of the overall relationship of gender equality in the Republic of Croatia, because it doesn't matter if it's a woman, whether it's a man but rather important that in this Croatia and both of them live well, and that if someone is better to do the job for the satisfaction of all the better, it was a man or that woman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23987	Thank you very much. Before we move on to five replicas, counterpart Vinkovic made a proposal on giving, or not to give a credible interpretation, by the Committee on Legislatives and decided by the Croatian Parliament, not the Government. Based on the government's opinion. Miss twilight, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23988	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. A colleague of Vinkovic, here, believe that I really expected that your debate would go in this direction, and you are indeed like one Slavon, and Slavons are known to appreciate and respect their wives, have had a very good debate, and you were talking about exactly that this is a strong and serious topic and it is certain that this is a serious topic, but it is just as certain as there are us here in the Parliament, but we were also very little about the budget at the end, and in everything that should have been solved, it is certain that today, as you said yourself, there were not all the representatives of the government, it is uncertain as much as our prime minister had skied, but a certain colleague Vinković had us all gathered well, so here are our women who should today be a paper confirmation, as she said, and I agree with her colleague Antičević, unfortunately for this question is a necessary paper confirmation, but we are well-based. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23989	Replication response, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23990	Well, the fact is that we Slavons have a broad soul and a big heart, not only for women, but for all people, unfortunately we don't get it from this central government narrowly, so that from that Croatian table we've only been throwing crumbs from us for 20 years, the question as far as Slavonia, Baranja and western Srijem can endure. But I'm gonna go back not to skiing in... Or in someone else... [[You don't understand.]] I have nothing against skiing, absolutely, but today, in any case, the Prime Minister was here, because he was the one who proposed the budget, and he was the one who had to defend the budget on behalf of the Government, not the ministers, not the individuals, and the government had to discuss all amendments of parliamentary deputies. [[You don't understand.]] About why the practical fill-in of these ballots is now moving from 2013 to 2019 don't ask me that. That's what you need to ask the one who passed the law and the one who will support the board's opinion but also the government's opinion. And as for the sledgehammer, so they've been sledging us for a year, you've had a dream of eight, etc. We can get in the shade.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23991	Nancy Tyrell's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23992	I first thank my colleague Vinkovic for this constructive debate. The sub-represented sex in the Republic of Croatia according to the census is unfortunately you are men, not women. So the woman has 51, something compared to 49, something. So the woman has more than the men in Croatia, and that is why these issues and problems are being updated here and there, and everything about that start of yours for the Constitution that we should all be the same and we should all have the same and equal rights, so maybe it's wrong to talk about equality and maybe it would be even smarter and more accurate to talk about equality. Because we're equal when it comes to rights, and we're different in that part of what a man is, a woman is a woman. And I agree with you that every single one of us, no matter what sex is anywhere to do anything to perform, needs to show his quality to his personality and to what I used to say. But unfortunately, in continuity, things happen and we face the truth every day, that unfortunately in Croatia women are still women and that our patriarchal society still finds less valuable, less desirable in certain functions in certain positions. And I'm glad you showed your different opinion today.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23993	Reply to the replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23994	You see, dear colleagues, that's my constant opinion. So I don't have an opinion that's only about this moment right now. So I'd be mad at you yourself for saying that in the population of Croatia there are far more women than men, and I'd be angry that someone like a man would put me in law, and I also think that all women in Croatia should get angry, that they stand in the law that they are a sub-represented sex. So, in the law we're making, we're claiming that women are a sub-represented sex. So there's no gender equality. Unfortunately, that's what women asked for in the law that they were sub-represented sex, without any illusions. Not only in politics, but the sub-represented sex refers to overall gender equality. Politics is only part of a wide range of business dealings with both men and women. It's probably not politics for us sitting here because this policy is the only good job. I should have told the Croatian public that there are much better jobs than politics. So I personally advocate equality I'm against fixing quotas so-called. quota because it's insulting both men and women. And politics is really a serious thing to be left to men alone. There's a colleague, Ingrid, right we're obviously right to deal with this in his party first. Politics is a serious matter to deal with both men and women.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23995	Jadranka Kosor replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23996	Thank you very much. So I hope I'll help my colleague Vinkovic read the Gender Equality Act again here, because we're polymising what it really means in law definition of sub-represented sex. So it is mentioned in the context of reaching at least 40% of the sub-represented sex in the third election cycle. And by the gender represented in the third election cycle, which should reach at least 40% are women because they are sub-represented in politics and then in the Croatian Parliament, in governments etc., etc. So that's what this is about. And thank God in the general population, we're almost 52%. And if we reached out and we reached out if we got 40 percent of it, you asked why? Well, because that would be a handful of beards if we reached 40%, but unfortunately we'll still be waiting. I agree with you very much when you said it would be good since you were on behalf of your club as a man saying that it would be good for other clubs to represent men that fellow MPs talk about it. I agree very much with that because usually when it comes to gender equality, discrimination, family, social welfare, that's what women usually say. But there is one, but surely you have one woman at the club to let her talk about this subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23997	Reply to the replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23998	You see, you don't know that there is a woman in the club, and it's probably going to be very soon as he lands and in these elections for the Council of Effects and HDZ, and now the SDP is going to very much yearn, and the HDSSB is going to grow, so there will certainly be more women here than these two election units of 28 MPs. I claim that there will certainly be 5 women in this Croatian Parliament in the next term and normally one dozen men but not on the basis of being a woman or a man, but on the basis of being quality men and women. So I'm against the introduction of quotas, against, because I think those quotas are one insult because many women think they are, and I've been through that period in one political option, many women think they're only on those lists because women are usually 14, 13, 12, or I don't know which. And what are we talking about then?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u23999	Anna Lovrin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24000	Thank you very much. Comrade Vinkovic, here's the thing, so you probably didn't hear or you don't know that it shouldn't be a sub-represented sex that should be an insult, so it's simply a fact in certain segments. But let's say the term sub-represented sex exists in the field of employment, so it says that the sub-represented sex has the right to call on non-priority in employment because there is less gender. For example, at lower levels of judicial officials or officials, men can be invited as a sub-represented sex to the advantage of employment because there are simply fewer or more teachers, professorial etc. So it's common. But what I wanted to rephrase to you, it is that you mentioned at the beginning of your presentation that here you note that there is no one from the Government who has given the opinion that there is no need for an interpretation of credibility and that it defends that opinion, but there is neither one nor any of the motions for a decision, therefore the chairman of the Committee on Legislatives, who is actually the Proposer of this act and should be here to defend the proposal and its decision. But how seriously this is meant, therefore, that neither she defends the proposal of that decision as chairman of the Committee on Law, but nor has she presented to us this conclusion, which, with that decision, proposes by the Committee on Law, which is to oblige the Government to draft and refer to the legislative procedure for amending and supplementing the law. Of course you don't say when it is, it can be... never, but it hasn't explained it to us or we've discussed it, so it can be seen how seriously he thinks about it, but of course he can't because it's just in the course of the session of the Committee on Legislatives. I have already expressed my disfavor over the organisation of the work in the Croatian Parliament, namely the appointment of the Committee of Justice at the time when a set of judicial laws in the field of justice was held at the plenary session,... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24001	Thank you. Replication response, Zoran Vinkovic. ... Comrade Vinkovic, here you go. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24002	Many of the laws passed here in the Croatian Parliament have proved to be extremely bad for Croatian citizens. So also this Law on Gender Equality, which refers to quotas, to sub-represented sex, allow one political option to feel that it is primarily ill written, and it is evident from today's debate that it is neither applicable in real life. As a replica, I may ask you one question, do you think that the people of Zadar voted for Anna Lovrin just because she was a woman or they voted for something else or in Djakov for Zoran Vinkovic just because she was a man or something else?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24003	And the last replica, Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24004	Thank you. I have to try if I've noticed we're a little off topic, so I want to appeal to those who will continue to participate in the debate. Col. Vinkovic said that when you're in opposition, you act one way, and when you're in power the other way. That's right. Today's theme, the basic theme of this agenda point, is not just the sub-representation of women, but when this sub-representation begins to increase, and we're gone, we're off topic. So we have two diametrically opposite interpretations when these third regular elections begin. That's the point of this point. If this law is passed which we are talking about, which should go towards increasing and solving the problem of sub-representation, it is a law adopted in 2008, if the Committee on Gender Equality gives an interpretation that these third regular elections are now coming because we had 2009. Locals, then 2011 for Parliament, so in 2013, these go, then that's the key to the problem. Why today's rulings do not want to apply it already now, and they swear that they are a solution to the problem of sub-representation, and the government opposes the decision of the Committee on Gender Equality and is prolonging it for the 2019 elections. Now forgive me, gentlemen, by ruling today, then it is true for you now, as you speak one thing in opposition, and when you come to power, you do something else entirely.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24005	Replication response, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24006	Comrade Buric, you have just summed up the essence of this really for me great problem. We had forgotten both the presidential elections and, behold, miracles I think almost all male candidates were, behold, miracles. On the other hand, 2013 is marked as the year of the third election cycle. Perhaps it was also a year of elections for the Croatian Parliament, for the Croatian Parliament. So it's best clear to us that many parties when they're in opposition speak one thing, when they come to power, do something else entirely. So the latest case of the famous Plan 21, where among other things it says that the value added tax is going to be reduced, is that we will practically get into well-being from a difficult economic situation. Today, there is no PP, VAT increased to 25%, there are more employees than it was a year ago, Croatia is becoming weaker and weaker alive, more and more hungry, more and more poor. And back to this and that promise that neither Slavonia nor Baranja in the new budgets remember Prime Minister Milanovic's speech that Slavonia will be forgotten. Unfortunately, in this budget there is neither with Slavonia nor with millions nor kuna, nor know what could contribute to life, better life in Slavonia and Baranja.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24007	But my colleague Buric didn't talk about the budget, or anything else you responded to in his line. On behalf of the HDZ club Ana Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24008	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. So we at the Croatian Democratic Community Club think that we need to re-read the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality, and if we could have had any doubt about it before, then we are no longer doubting now that we have received the opinion of the Government after we have also received the opinion of the Committee on Gender Equality as a parent committee and after we have received the proposal from the Committee on Legislatives. Therefore, from the opinion of the Government and the opinion of the Committee on Gender Equality which says that the law is unequivocal and clear and does not need credible interpretation. But then, behind these discrepancies, there are diametrically contradictory arguments, so the Committee on Gender Equality says that the law is inconclusive and clear, that it does not need interpretation and that it is not required from the provisions of Article 15(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law clearly states that the third regular elections refer to political elections for the representative bodies of local and regional self-government in the Republic of Croatia, which will take place in April 2013. And for reasons that are so clear, you don't need a credible interpretation. And then comes the government's opinion which also says the law is clear. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on gender equality is clear and precise and there is no need for credible interpretation but, behold, miracles. They say it is quite clear that the third cycle applies especially to each choice of different levels. So, the third cycle of local elections, the third cycle of parliamentary elections and the third cycle of elections for the European Parliament. Because it is said in the government's view that it was the legislator's intrinsicity when he passed the law, and that this was the government's intention and that this was clearly and unequivocally laid down by law, that, for example, this provision of the Law on Gender Equality in the case of elections for representatives in the European Parliament would actually be valid only in 2028. If we take the first election, if God gives it next year and then once again for five years, then another five years. So in 2028 we'll apply this legal provision. And then we have a famous proposal for a decision by the Committee on Legislatives, which was made with nine votes from the ruling and three votes against which he said he had received the opinion of the Government which said that there was no need for credible interpretation and opinion of the parent committee and that after the debate it was found that the proposal for a decision should not be forwarded. Now this is all the good luck of Prime Minister Milanovic not being here. In fact, it is good, because he would probably say that we are evil and evil, and he would give us a measure of the IQ of all of us who may not be clear about something in the law, as well as a lawyer for gender equality who also gave the opinion that the third regular elections refer to the third cycle of elections independently of what level and thus to the head of the Gender Equality Office, who also expressed her opinion at the Committee on Gender Equality and would declare us incompetent intelligence because we do not understand this law. Here, no matter what I consider a woman's quota, too. Of course, especially when I was younger, it bothered me very much just for the reasons Mr. Agent Vinkovic tells me not to find a woman on the list just because she's a woman. But in time, you realize that everyone who is in a weaker social position, that there is a need for positive discrimination, as well as for women who often do not come in a traditional male environment to show what they are capable of and what they know and what they might be dealing with. And so they need a certain incentive. It's not some fiction in Croatia, it doesn't have to offend anyone. Let's say, in European institutions, the opportunity of each selection or appointment is to make sure that the component is equal to the representation of male and female. We have recently had the choice of a judge of the European Court of Human Rights where one of the recommendations and criteria was to take and to that detail under all of the conditions, but to be careful also to be represented by the male and female persons. Here, in that sense, no one should be offended by those quotas. One day, it might turn around and we'll get 10% more fees for the men sitting here because it's a good definition, and I was extremely glad that I read in law that it's about sub-represented sex, not women, because then it doesn't cement this current situation, so maybe one day it'll be so that an additional 10% of the fees will be paid for the male representative. And of course I don't think either, because indeed certain parties, especially in local elections, may not be, without their own intention, able to be sufficiently interested in lists, and where they are interested, if the traditional male environment in party leadership still doesn't put them on lists, they will decide to pay that fine rather than disrupt their own internal flows and flows. So I agree that this fine will not achieve much, and if we really want to talk about punishment then it would be a question of not accepting a list unless it is as prescribed by the Law on Gender Equality. But here's the question is whether we're still mature, but we certainly are, and I'm mostly surprised by the Social Democrats, by the SDP, who always boasts that he has the best representation of women on the lists, is he afraid he'll be in a position to punish himself? So, I'm more surprised by that because in the media and before the request for credible interpretation came, we heard from the government and from the prime minister about how this provision will not apply to local elections in 2013. But that's two, that's already what we're talking about, and the issue of this law. So, what is clear as long as there is an institute of credible interpretation, after the government's delivered opinion and after the opinion of the Committee on Gender Equality has been delivered, so where, of course, the Government is from the political representatives of the rulings alike in the Committee on Gender Equality, the majority who voted that conclusion, or the decision, also ruled, they added that there is unnecessary interpretation and an explanation of why it should not be said that the law is clear in the diametric opposite directions. So what is more obvious than that credible interpretation is necessary? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24009	Thank you. Three replicas to your exposure. Dinko Buric, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24010	Thank you. Your esteemed colleague, Lovrin, your debate was right here on the trail of what I just did and wanted to stick to it. So, let's stick to the subject. And the basic theme is when will the law that we passed in 2008 come into force? And that's what it's all about. But you've just said here that we have two diametric opposite claims that everything is clear. But it is not to believe that the government is giving its interpretation, but in its explanation of the call, that is what is incredible in this document, the government is called on as a reason why it stands and now has such an opinion that it agrees with the claim made by the proposer, then vice-president of the government and the minister of the family, defenders and intergenerational solidarity of Mrs Jadranka Kosor who then rejected what the SDP proposed. Now everyone is suggesting that he then proposed SDP, and the SDP refuses with an explanation given by the HDZ before it was in power. So wait, you don't have to make fools out of us and Croatian citizens. It is only the promoter, or government of the Republic of Croatia now, that is only proof that you give a man little power, and then you will really see what he is like. This is hypocritical. They could at least try and give some too much reason, their position, and not in the absence of a reason to call for an explanation of the HDZ, which, with the same arguments, then rejected the proposal. I mean, it's underestimating to both MPs and Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24011	Thank you. Replication response, Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24012	Thank you very much. So, fellow Buric, what you just said about the government explaining why it shouldn't be given crediblely could be called simply one clumsy jurist. So, look, if they are even engaged in this explanation, then it is proof that a credible interpretation is needed where they in a credible interpretation would reach historically in what the legislator had passed the law that he thought, and what he thought would then be read from what they proposed amendments, and the promoter did not accept so. But that's already an interpretation, then we should say that interpretation is necessary, and we will interpret it so, and so, according to the legislator's intention from the time of the law, but they will now not give the interpretation, but they argue why it is clear, completely clear to them how clear it is, because probably their quotient, or the Prime Minister's IQ is such that it is always clear to him. At the same time he does not support, they say we do not support the prosecutor's position on gender equality. Do you remember the debate on the Law on the Ombudsman when it was resolute to prove that we need all these lawyers both for children and for gender equality and for people with disabilities because they especially protect these social groups, etc., so they need to have a special office and be outside the lawyer's office, etc., now that these important institutions tell them something, the Government simply tells me that attitude we don't accept, the dead cold ones, they don't accept the position of their own Office of Gender Equality, which I don't know why they founded, if in matters of gender equality they won't listen to or care about what they say. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24013	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24014	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, fellow Lovrin, I'm going to tell you one last thing that they don't accept. Like what? Public defenders, as many as 5 or 6 candidates were, and the government declared that none of them were competent, no expert, and we know that in reality there were professional people, only the one who was supposed to report was a little bit at sea, there was no skiing, there was a man at sea and he didn't get to pick up, then they said give up again these aren't professional. And colleagues Lovrin, indeed, and for colleagues who think this is legal, i.e. I agree with paper and a good sentence paper law, and why we're looking for that quota, these are the tools of a colleague, tell them once again, these are the tools that we have to use ourselves with, because there are no tools that we can use then really women by our abilities and by everything she does and how she can act in politics would always stay on the side, because women have no time to go to the game afterwards, to the lamb, women must go home, to the family. After that, he has to prepare for the debate, after which he has to do thousands of other jobs, and then he has to argue here to make fun of someone after that, and to say that he is where he is because someone's friend, a concubine, I don't know our godmother or nanny, and no one, and men say that to my colleagues, Lovrin. None of them say no, it's a woman who has her profession, education, quality and who has really proven herself in this political life, it's sad, and that's why we need laws like this, we need tools to deal with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24015	The answer to the replica of Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24016	Thank you very much. Of course, fellow Members, we're not going to bring this debate down to that level, and I don't think that when we start to deal with politics, we should take over men's manners, for example. I've been told often that it's amazing that I can be in politics at all because I don't eat lamb at all and it's a miracle. Here, but of course, like any social group that might have something, I wouldn't say less rights than simply, with their views less represented, she needs this one positive discrimination to get into expression and show what she can and knows, it's called an incentive environment. Here is such an encouraging environment at this time women should, and therefore should not be thought that those quotas underestimate women, no, they just provide them with some kind of access, and there have been speeches from colleagues, colleagues Vinkovic that women will be put there only on the list in some place, that it happened, as no, you have some regulations, I think that Macedonia even has rules not only women on the list, but must have a second, fifth or eighth place, but after the election after 10 candidates enter the list, it is not mandatory for those 10 to enter Macedonia, but parties to read which. You know where women end up? At home, and this place comes men's, here but it's a mental set thing and you know that cut of English weed and I hope with a little help we'll come to the mentality that we don't push those women off the list. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24017	And Branko Vuksic, the last replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24018	I'm sorry, I've got a bit of an idea. Excuse me. There is a Croatian film directed by Acimovic called "Is It Clear Friend?" We've been arguing here the whole time if we're clear that we don't understand. First of all, the key is in this law that was passed, there's no law being passed in a way that tells you after the third cycle, then the third cycle is interpreted in every way, so it should have been written since 1.1.2013, that's the biggest problem of this law. When I was in New Zealand then they told me we'd meet after the afternoon rain, those who were in New Zealand know it, I was the first time in New Zealand and I didn't realize what it meant and I didn't know it, they interpreted it in one way in the afternoon rain, I interpreted it the other way in the afternoon rain, everyone interpreted it as who would. Or in... There's that famous term I'll see you Thursday after the war, so it's written by this law. [[You don't understand.]] But all that is acceptable, I just don't understand why the authority that interpreted it differently when it was in opposition today doesn't accept its interpretation, I don't understand it. There is a possibility of amending the law, there is a possibility of correcting the law, means to make additions and amendments to the law and allow women not to be sub-represented, but in the next elections, but we are also missing the next local elections and missing the next parliamentary elections, for what? For what? It's not even clear why. The SDP party and the Kukuriku coalition are full of their mouths of gender equality. Now he answers them at once and interprets that the third cycle means as the HDZ previously interpreted in 2019. I'm sorry, but it's a big hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24019	The answer to the replica of Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24020	Comrade Vuksic, I agree with you that it would be better for the law to have a clear deadline. But when that is not the case and we don't have such a law, but we have a law that promotes the third electoral cycle, then we need to ensure and exploit the existing possible mechanisms and institutes, that in this case is a credible interpretation of the law which would then ensure a clear and unequivocal application of that law. That's what this is about. Now we're where we are, we can't go back. So we can believe that the government is credible and that it really thinks that this is all something so clear and thinks it's really so clear and it's not good because it's the previous government that brought it in, then, with this opinion, it would immediately refer to the Parliament the procedure and the amendment of this law that would clearly define it without credible interpretation. However, I have experienced here from the ministers of this Croatian government in the assembly of things in terms of interpretation of application, so when I well warned that in what it says in the bill that it does not say what is the obvious urgency of the legislator, so I wanted to be well-intentioned and correct the legal text they said, it doesn't matter we will issue an indication that this is how it is applied. But then they realized that the state administration and the bodies couldn't operate by the minister's policies but by law. So then after a few months we had motions to amend and supplement the laws, etc., etc. Therefore, a clear legal text should be sought and, if it is not already so, those instruments at its disposal should be used. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24021	We move to an individual debate, Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24022	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Today on the legal side, colleague Lovrin explained quite a bit. She says she reminded me of my wife who also doesn't eat lamb but doesn't deal with politics but there's a colleague of the twilight sitting there. And now that I'm looking at my colleague Sumrak, she's a vet graduate or a veteran doctor who says she's a veterinary medicine so when we look at the Faculty of Veterinary Studies 40 years ago and we look at the number of men and women enrolled, students and students at that university, and then we see that there was a major shift in favour of telling male students or groups of students. Today, in both colleges, there are almost 80% of women in both veterinary and medical schools. In politics, and we are all the zoo politicians all touching us if we are not concerned with politics are said to be concerned about us, so regardless of the sex of men or women, so whatever we do is all about politics, so there is likely to be an interest in political action between the two sexes, perhaps even equal. When we look at the relationship between men and women in the population it's said that 51:49, let's set things up in favour of a stronger sex, and I think women are a stronger sex for a number of reasons, starting with those 2x chromosomes and beyond, so when we look at that so-called. Over-representation in the general population and sub-representation in political activity, ready for active policy-making, then I must remember women who have indeed achieved in politics or have remained remembered almost in the history of Margaret Thatcher, and here is the strongest Mrs Merkel and our Savska Dabčević Kučar of significant Hilary Clinton, Indira Gandhi, Evita Peroni etc. I don't want to put it in order. There have been attempts here in Croatia to create and it has been working, so even the Party of Women went to elections and failed in political action. It's strange that someone who has 51% of members of the same sex to have their own party create that this party has absolutely nothing to achieve in the elections, nothing at all. Let's just ask ourselves a little bit and analyze why that is? Why is that when, for example, it's like that? A pensioner's party which is also something to say and yet succeeds in its political life represents the interests of the pensioners and let's say more widely? With us in the free Croatian state, politics and perception of politics in the public has contributed to the fact that many and men are disgusted by politics and what it does and what the Croatian state is led to. Women may see it better than men or even feel better, starting with an inequality in employment, and then imbalances in paying for what they do, etc. It bothers them even more. In the 5th constituency in these previous parliamentary elections, we had 40% of women of 14 candidates 8:6 more than 40%. When we set up the list for the City Council of Slavonski Brod 2009 of 25 candidates on the list for the City Council of Slavonski Brod there were 13 women, 12 men. I'm talking about HDSSB. of the mayoral candidates and two mayors, one was therefore the three managements of the leading one was a woman. So, I'm talking about how long ago we realized this 2008 bill and applied it. Which is why it is, in fact, three key reasons for increasing women's political participation. Let's ask ourselves why, are women interested in political participation, which leads them to deal with politics, to deal with politics. Is it the democratic justice of this majority and minority, so may Majority and Minority, 51:49 so that this justice may be fulfilled. So if we're going to do justice, then make it 51% of women on the list, if it's 51%, if it's democratic justice. I'm talking about a numerical relationship in the population of men and women. Using resources, I think it's clear what I'm talking about, and it says interesting representation. These are the conclusions of the CESI Association, that I am not also speaking their reports on the reasons for increasing the political participation of women. Which is why it does not happen in the Croatian state, free, independent, democratic, to achieve the pillar of women's representation in politics. Here are some data that came from certain and professional gatherings, and I'm not going to tell the congress, but the forums that were held. So in the education structure of Croatia 48% of women are with primary school and lower education levels, and only 32.2% of men, although this did not measure participation in politics. As the most common reason here says discrimination of women is their double burden. This is considered by 94% of citizens who have been surveyed. Double load, I always say two shifts, women work two and sometimes three shifts. Men one, one and a half. That is why here is just another survey that was conducted in Zagreb in 2011, they say the trend of non-recognition of women's barriers to politics has continued. Zagreb and Zagreb women say that in 2011, they considered 25% of women in the parliament to be sufficient. Polls conducted in Zagreb, which is clearly not positive. Now, the application of a 40% quota by a legislative framework, I would say by a decree, not to say that the quota of 40%, the quota of 40%, is it good, or is it good that these associations and we as a society and politics deal with the reasons why women, therefore among women, are no longer involved in politics. Well, you can't by law or decree change something that just sometimes doesn't work. So the reason why women are no longer is to be removed, is to be more interested in working in politics. It's basic, not a 40% bill, and it's over, and now it's asking you who's gonna go on your list if you don't have it. Let us remove the causes, and in order to eliminate causes such as those in some other countries that are more economically developed, the economic shift needs the second shift that we are talking about, so two shifts should be relieved. It should therefore also be possible in family life and everything else to say to a man or another marriage partner, regardless of who deals with them in politics so that a woman can therefore have both time and desire and the need to deal with politics. When we have such a society and the state, then it will be very easy, as I said at the beginning, not to say spontaneously and in politics at the Veterinary and Medical Faculty.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24023	Thank you. You have two replicas. The first one is Zlatko Komadina.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24024	Dear colleague, I must confess I listened to you, I answered the line for the reason you said the sentence, which I didn't get an explanation for, which leads women to deal with politics and after... why they don't deal with it anymore. I mean, I don't understand what you're saying, that we shouldn't be dealing with it? I mean, there are x reasons why a woman has less in both business and political terms. One of them is unfortunately a tradition in Croatian and other societies since the family, and unfortunately, it is not regrettable that motherhood is a woman's thing and therefore less participate in certain things, especially in the leadership sense. I personally say my whole life I've been running something, I've never made a difference between women and men, I mean, of course in a business-political sense, so someone doesn't think anything else. Otherwise, I'm familiar with the difference in some other senses. Therefore, positive discrimination is simply necessary until it becomes simple practice or normal business practice that we are all equal to sex. Until that happens, we're going to have to have laws like this that will demand after discrimination. And I would personally like us to have them and take as short as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24025	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24026	Thank you very much. Comrade Komadin, I don't think you got me right or you didn't hear me right. So, the association... states in his report that three key reasons for increasing political participation are women. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And then says democratic justice, exploiting resources and interesting representation. So they claim it, so a female association that deals with these issues. I didn't say that. I was quoting that. And secondly, as regards positive discrimination, so I said 40% of what you from yours said, not personally, but your party is just prolonging what I've been saying and what we've been talking about here all day. So, your party, no party prolongs to so-called. The third cycle of 2019 is that you obviously agree with me that it should be applied from 1.1.2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24027	And Zeljko Schamper, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24028	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd like to tell my colleague Grubisic. It's not an allegation, but it's not a comparison that bothers us, it's what's called our party. Often in the media and in today's Vecernjak says the Party of Croatian Retireds, today's respected representative says the party of pensioners. I think that at least correctly in this House it should be called what we are in the three mandates of the parliamentary party, the Croatian party of pensioners. And I don't know why it's so hard to say Croatian. We want to cut something short, but as you called it, it's the dissident party that did too much damage to the pensioners in the 2007 parliamentary elections. So I'm asking you nicely in the future to stick to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24029	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24030	Dear colleague, I hope you know that our Croatian name is sacred. So it is no problem to pronounce on h, especially in HDSSB and HDSSB members, members of the HDSSB Croatian name. I'm here, so in a sign of good faith and good intentions I apologize for. I have not even noticed that I have spoken the name of your party without the adjective of Croatia, and I know that there exist just as you say Matica, Party of pensioners of Croatia, without Croatia, Buz and I do not know who all of these rightful clean and unclean parties are, so here I am sorry that so many parties exist. But here, I apologize to the Croatian party of pensioners.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24031	Finally on behalf of the HDSSB club, Dinko Buric for five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24032	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, I didn't originally intend to speak for these five minutes, but there's something to be said. There was a debate over a good proposal. And unfortunately we are talking about the fight for gender equality in political life and also participation in the Croatian Parliament, and if I counted this quickly, there are currently seven MPs present in the Croatian Parliament and 24 if I am not wrong with the MPs, which is not bad. However, we left, we got away from the basic theme. In 6 days, we will be exactly 64 years, 10 December 1948, brought to the United Nations a general declaration of human rights in which the preamble states that one of the fundamental objectives of the United Nations is, I quote, "Returning faith in fundamental human rights, dignity and the value of a person, and equal rights of men and women." The greatest credit for this finding its place in this document belongs to Mrs. Eleanori Roosevelt clearly. However, the Republic of Croatia has been here for 21 years, now 22 years is an independent and independent state, it participated in two world conferences and the one in '93. years in Vienna and at 4. The World Women's Conference in Beijing in 1995, even that Beijing platform signed and we are discussing in 2012 when the law we passed, which was passed in the Croatian Parliament even more than 4 years ago, will begin to apply. Both aside now and what is truly untrustworthy is that by now ruling, and until a year and a few days ago in the opposition, they have the exact opposite of what they had then, which is identical to the position that today the opposition HDZ has while it was ruling. I'm really interested in the whole HDSSB club, too, which is the basic reason. We can't figure out, that you're afraid to apply what you rightly advocated while you were in the opposition, to start applying in the next local elections. And it is right to ask the question of credible interpretation, because I will remind you in the law of Article 15 that it will begin to apply from the third regular elections of the day of the law. It is not said to be applied since the third separate electoral institute is mentioned here. There is no such term, this term of a separate electoral institute, so elections for local and regional self-government, for the Croatian Parliament and for the European Parliament is a novelty, not to say the fiction that came from the ranks of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And you have the fact that this law that was passed on 15th of July is unique by something, there are not many such laws, the Croatian Parliament passed it on July 15th, the President of the Republic of then Stjepan Mesic declared it July 15th, and in the final and transitional provisions it writes the pillar to force on July 15th. On the same day, the Parliament, published in the National Journal, came into force. And we are now looking for an interpretation of whether it should enter into force on 1 January 2013 or on 19 May 2013, or whether it should be in 2019. If we allow this interpretation, every law to be passed is known the day it is adopted, the date on which it is published and the date is known, the date on which it enters into force shall be determined. It is written here to enter into force on 15 July 2008. All elections after that are counted from that day. It doesn't say an electoral institute and we'd have to start applying it, here I am, because otherwise we could count if the third regular election counts that it's every electoral law then we could hear the interpretation that it's going to be from the third eclipse of the sun, from the third full moon and I don't know what.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24033	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24034	So let's start applying it as prescribed, which is since 2013.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24035	Thank you. Replica, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24036	Dear Representative Buric, and I agree that we should repeat and repeat ourselves all the time, it is hypocritical when one is spoken in opposition, and when it comes to power, they always say that when you come to power, you will see it. If the SDP that has now interpreted the need, even given the amendment, to be effective in the local elections in 2013, I really don't see the reason why this would not occur, which is why it would not be possible if it didn't think that interpretation was good, if it thought it was a vague law why no amendments and amendments to the law would be made, they would enter the procedure. We have time to make choices and we can do it and show consistency. Because even the DIP says the notion of an election cycle refers to a normised time gap in which elections for a particular political body and political position are held. In this sense, the notion of regular elections refers to elections for any level of government. So this is 2013, is also the third election cycle under that interpretation. And now I still don't understand why the Kukurik coalition opposes that women would be in the same way as the lists that we all agreed here together just to respect the law. So change the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24037	Replication response, Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24038	Dear counterpart Vuksic, I will remind you of Article 35 of this law, which says among other things - Political parties and other authorised proposings who, when proposing a list of candidates for the selection of representatives in the Croatian Assembly, are members of the representative bodies of the local and regional (regional) self-government bodies as well as members of the European Parliament who do not respect the principle of equality, etc., which is set out in Article 15, are not about three separate electoral institutions, but are talking about all the regular elections in one place. And the start of the number of implementations of this law is the local elections in 2009, the second number is the 2011 elections for the Croatian Parliament and the number three will be the local elections in 2013. And that's where it's all clear. But if it is not clear, and obviously there are as soon as we have two institutions, the Committee on Gender Equality and the Government of the Republic of Croatia who have the diametrically opposite opinions, then it is absolutely necessary to interpret this. So let him give it to whoever he needs. Whether it needs to be changed or not, I don't think it should be changed that he's clearly written. It says that it has been applicable since 15 July 2008 and in Article 35 it says all elections. Nowhere does it mention that this is especially true for the local, Croatian Parliament and the European Parliament. Well, we won't really have a situation here by playing the case now because we'll only have one year or nine months a year when we choose for the European Parliament MPs and we'll have five years after 2019 again, and we'll start applying this in 2019. It's beyond any sense for me to fear and especially delay the application by always ruling. While you're in opposition, when you're in power, it's a good delay. And we swear that we want gender sub-representation to be fixed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24039	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24040	We are going to the Proposal for a decision not to give a credible interpretation of Article 15(2). The Law on Gender Equality, National No. 82/2008 The debate on the proposal for a decision is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 81 votes for and 35 votes against the decision not to give a credible interpretation of Article 15(2). The law on gender equality in the text as proposed by the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24041	We move to the 5th item of the agenda - Proposal for a Decision establishing the Research Commission to determine the facts regarding the legality of the conduct of the Ministry of the Interior during the collection of data in the establishment of telecommunications contacts The proposal for a Decision establishing the Research Commission was submitted by 45 representatives in the Croatian Parliament. You received the motion for a decision by mail. Would the proposing representative like to explain the proposal? Comrade Vladimir Shakespeare, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24042	Dear Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. On 24 October this year 45 representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament from the Croatian Democratic Community, Croatian Labourists, Civil Party, HSP Dr. Ante Starcevic submitted a proposal for a decision to set up an investigative fact-finding committee in connection with the legality of the interior ministry's conduct during the collection of data in the establishment of telecommunications contacts. The occasion for proposing this decision came up after the publication in the Evening List of Articles 21. The October, addressed by interior minister President Ivo Josipovic's statements and a statement at a joint press conference by the president of the Republic of Ivo Josipovic and Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. The proposal for the establishment of an investigative committee comes from the fact that it is of public interest to establish facts relating to the legality and conduct of the Ministry of the Interior during the collection of information on the establishment of telecommunications contacts. In the mentioned article of the Evening List, which was one of the main reasons on which all the activities that led to the proposal for this decision, 45 MPs, the text states that police under the political leadership of Minister Ranko Ostojić have abused the system of secret data collection and have stalking more people from the top of the Security Intelligence Agency. That text states that abuse has been detected through expert supervision carried out by the National Security Council Office in secret services, the Security Intelligence Agency and the Military Intelligence Agency, and the Operational and Technical Centre for Telecommunications Control. The text further states that expert supervision has found that police officers from the national police office for the control of corruption and organised crime, criminality has misused powers so that, on requests for phone lists of individuals under criminal treatment, they have also submitted a telephone number of persons from the management of a secure intelligence agency, which is, according to this article, a flagrant violation of Article 68. The law on police affairs and powers which are prescribed that a police officer may request the telecommunications service provider to verify the authenticity of the duration and frequency of contact with certain telecommunication addresses in order to prevent the danger of violence, to prevent the detection of criminal offences for which... on official duty. [[You don't understand.]] Interior Minister Ranko Ostojic immediately after the discovery called the evening list's affairs with a statement that he was not informed about professional surveillance, about data collection, and the next day at the press conference, he completely rejected all allegations published in the Vecernji list, arguing that the police had not committed any illegality or that he had anything to do with the operational processing, so he could not give them any warrant, and in particular any political order. The next day, 22nd. At the same time, the President of the Republic, after receiving a report on expert supervision carried out by the National Security Council Office of the OTC, said that it would have something to do with the internal supervision of the MUP and all other authorities involved in surveillance in the Security Intelligence System, and that there would also be speeches on the National Security Council. Next day 22. October 2012 In the years, a joint press conference was held for the ministry, the president of the Republic of Ivo Josipovic, and Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, and both presidents found that there was no illegality in the work of the MUP and the Police Directorate at an extraordinary press conference. But on the same day, Presidents Ivo Josipovic and Zoran Milanovic dismissed the duties of the President of the National Security Council Office of Petar Misevic, in order not to ensure the implementation of the work of the National Security Council Office and at the same press conference of both presidents, it was said that this case would be investigated by the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament. Following these statements, both the Presidents of the Republic and the Government and the Minister of the Interior, it came to this initiative that this proposal for a decision on the establishment of an investigative committee with the aim of having an unequivocal public interest to establish all relevant facts of this case. And according to the proposal for this decision, the aim of the investigation committee is to identify all facts relating to the conduct of officers of the National Police Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime in the collection of data on the establishment of telecommunications contacts between directors and other persons of the Security Intelligence Agency. The investigation committee under this proposal should determine whether there has been illegal treatment by officials of the National Police Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime and other persons both outside the Ministry of Interior and beyond, thus jeopardising the national security of the Republic of Croatia. and the Commission of Investigation should also determine whether the reasons set out in the Law on the Security and Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia for the resolution of the Head of the Office of the National Security Council before the end of the term of office and finally determine whether the conduct of the relevant authorities and state officials before and after the discovery of the affair has compromised national security and the breach of the trust of Croatian citizens in the security system of the Republic of Croatia. After a proposal for a decision on the establishment of an investigative committee of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security of the Croatian Parliament was sent to the procedure on 24 June, a report on the supervision of services included in the so-called "The Croatian Parliament". the case of monitoring of SOA staff and in this report of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, which was adopted by the majority of votes, the Committee concluded. Under 1 on the action of the police on the case in question, there was no abuse of powers or any violation of the laws which are cited and in the report of the National Security Council Office. 2. A provision of Article 7(3) of the Interim Protocol on the Cooperation of the Police and OTC has been broken in the operation of the Directorate of the Police and of the OTC but the Interim Protocol does not have the power of any legal or sublegal act and the same provision has been systematically violated before, and that this breach has never been found by the Office of the National Security Council in any of its previous reports. 3. The report of the National Security Council Office shall be sent to the President of the Republic and the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as the sole authorised users but its parts with incorrect claims of alleged illegal police management activities published in the Evening List. The Assembly Committee found that only four employees of the National Security Council had an insight into this report and that one member of the Committee had publicly stated that he had had an insight into the classified report before it came to the parliamentary committee. 4. The publication of classified data in the Vecernji list with false allegations of breaking the law prevented further police processing of a dangerous criminal group and prevented the identification of possible links with individual SOA employees. 5. The Interim Protocol on the Cooperation of the Directorate of Police and of the OTC should be replaced by some clearer procedural that would have the power of the Sublaw Act and 6. It is necessary to amend existing legal solutions and to prevent the publication of classified data in the media because it is obvious that such publication prevents police treatment against criminal groups, thereby jeopardising national security. The members of the Committee in the Minority, the chairman of the Committee Miroslav Tudjman, Tomislav Karamarko, Tomislav Culjak and Miljan Brkić, are so grateful for this, have drawn up a separate opinion and, in their written opinion, established certain proposals for certain conclusions and argued that this affair has affected the reputation of the Republic of Croatia, caused damage to the national security system, as well as the reputation of part of the Head of Security Intelligence, that there is a grey zone in the system of secret collection of telecommunications traffic data, and that the grey zone is caused by indetermination and existing laws because there is no specific surveillance of the 9/10 requests sent to the OTC requesting that they are provided by the Police Directorate that the existing legal regulations make it possible for one segment of the security system to enter into the area of the other and to control the heads of security and intelligence agencies, that there are no plans and programmes for the coordination of the work of the security and safety and safety systems that are provided with national security services. Finally, in order to establish the legal conduct of the Police Directorate, it is necessary to request an indication and to hold talks with SOA and USKOK leaders who are actors or have had the insight or access to part of the data published by the media and with the Minister of the Interior and State Attorney's Office regarding the above circumstances and findings. This conclusion, this separate opinion of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, is summed up briefly, because it is also summed up from these out of the Committee's conclusions, in the opinion of the Proposer, to continue to insist after this work and the conclusions of the Parliamentary Committee on Internal Policy and National Security to continue to exist reasons which need to be established in the public interest of all these circumstances provided for in the proposal for a decision to establish an investigation committee to establish facts relating to the legality of the conduct of the Ministry of Interior during the collection of information on the establishment of telecommunications contacts with a particular view to this fact that both the Parliamentary Committee on Internal Policy and National Security have found that there are infringements of the provisions of Article 7. The Interim Protocol on the Cooperation of the Directors of the Police and the OTC and that, regardless of the fact that these protocols do not have the power of a legal and illegal act but have a considerable legal and factual significance in the correlation with the legality of the conduct. Thus, despite these conclusions of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, the applicants maintain that through this debate it is necessary to determine whether or not there is a public interest in establishing an investigative commission with those objectives set out in the proposal for a decision to set up an investigative committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24043	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs. On behalf of SDP club colleague Nenad Stazic, vice president of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24044	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. First, I must say that I am sorry that the debate on this item of the agenda is taking place now, not in the morning, because if it were to be led in the morning it would be in direct transmission and then all the citizens who are monitoring this transfer could see all the senselessness of this proposal for an investigative commission. But at first, we said we wouldn't manipulate the time of the debate, so let's stick to it. Why would you see all the senselessness of this proposal? Because the investigating committee should work to establish with classified documents. I ran an investigation committee on the affair of trucks, and it was also about classified documents, they all had to be declassified first before they came to the investigation committee. And Parliament has a body that can also work on classified documents, it's the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Thus, a body that can be easier and easier to find out the full truth is its own supervision and has carried out some conclusions and has come to some conclusions, but this investigative commission could not do so. And then why is there still an investigative commission being proposed, is that HDZ actually interested, as far as I can see, how many of you are in the council now, I don't think there's too much interest in this investigation committee either. That's probably what your boss ordered you to propose here. Why? Because he gave himself up if he had come into possession of classified documents he had no right to, so now he's pouring black in order to hide himself in that black hole. A fellow Shex says the cause for the proposal for this commission is in the text in the Evening List. So I'm asking you why you didn't find the occasion in the report from the National Security Council. And beware, in an isolated opinion that you yourself have given as HDZ stands, in your separate opinion, not in the conclusion of the majority, in your separate opinion, it is said that the report of the National Security Council Office, according to the regular monitoring of the OTC, does not mention the illegal conduct of the MUP. But why didn't you ask Mr. Culjko, who spoke with us and Misevic, who was removed, so when we asked Mr. Misevic if the Office of the National Security Council established any illegality in the conduct of the MUP, then Misevic said we didn't. There was no illegality. So you don't need an investigative commission, you could only ask a colleague, he would tell you that because he was at that conversation with Misevic. You say that the aim of this is to identify all the facts, but it has been established, it has been established in the work of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You are wondering and the aim of the commission should be whether there were reasons for the shift of Misevic, and in your own separate opinion, it is not disputed that President Ivo Josipovic and the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia have the right to replace the head of the National Security Council. Now you'd like the investigative committee to determine what you wrote in your own separate opinion. It's nonsense he doesn't have. It is your great luck that citizens don't follow this in direct transmission and not see what you're getting yourself into quite unreasonablely. Look, the Committee has done its job very consciously, very consciously. I must say that all the members of the Committee took part in this diligently, in a committed manner, whether they were from the position or from the opposition. What has the Committee established? Part of it was told by fellow Shakespeare, but let's make it interesting and simple. Criminal police have been working, Crimea police have been processing a mob group. They've established the trial, and the judge has allowed them to take measures of secret data collection against these mobsters. They've established that mobsters talk to each other and the third person, so they're following you, listening to you. The mobsters had information that someone was listening to them, that the service was following them. What did the Crime Police do? She asked to see who all the mobsters were in touch with. It has established that they or third parties associated with them are in contact with some of the numbers registered at the MUP, the MUP is their owner. That's when Crimea police don't know who's holding those phones in his pocket and asking the OTC for a list of contacts. This contact list is not a secret data collection measure. Because the list of your phone contacts you can request from your operator and he will send it to you, to control your account. And phone operators don't have the right to secretly collect data. And a contact list isn't a secret data collection. Now, when the police found out that their two employees were giving it to the mob group, they arrested them nicely and were ordered by the judge for one month. And now they're in custody, they can't give up anything anymore, and the police notice that the data still leaks. These are still being warned, and that's why he's asking the OTC list. And now what's it come to? It happens that some people in the SOA have been in contact with criminals or associated persons. They say he complains, says when it was discovered they didn't even inform the Home Secretary because he really said at the conference that he didn't know anything about it. But the police don't even have to inform the Home Secretary. She's only obliged to notify the DORH. And you know why she's not obliged to inform the Home Secretary? Well, because the Home Secretary can commit crimes like he did, so Kirin confessed, he admitted immediately that no one asked him to commit a crime. So Roncevic, who served as interior minister, has been tried for the time being, for his crimes. Therefore, ministers do not have to be saints. And that's why the Crimea police have not informed the ministers or have any legal obligation to inform him or anyone other than the State's Attorney's office. And no leak was made there. But what happened? It comes out, first OTC surveillance and services for the National Security Council Office. And they go into regular controls and they always announce themselves, they make a 5.7-day decision before they go into control. This time imagine the same day they made the decision they went into control, the same day. Someone was in such a hurry, someone was in a hurry. They didn't establish any illegality, but someone told the Evening List there was a violation of the law, so the Evening List wrote like this: "State top in shock" that was the title. "Police illegally tracked the phones of several security intelligence agents." First, the state top wasn't in any kind of shock. Well, you've seen the Prime Minister and the President's press. What kind of shock? And secondly, it's incorrect what it says on the Evening List. So someone told the Evening List a lie so that the Evening Paper would publish that lie. And you know what the judge did after it came out on the Evening List? He banned the measures of secret data collection against these mobsters, because he said you're broke, what I can do to you. Now that would be a further violation of human rights. You won't listen to them again. He wonders after the Vecernji List that members of the Committee could conclude that they helped mobsters with such writings. But that's not what the members of the board concluded, that's what the people of Crimea told us. That's what we found out from them. Well, we didn't suck that out of our fingers. What do we have to conclude now? So, the Committee, I think, has quite correctly reached its four conclusions. Most importantly, there was no violation of the law. It has also been established that some sort of temporary protocol has been violated on the treatment between the OTC and the Crimea Police. When we asked them, it was also good in that report that point seven or Article 7(3) was violated. When you asked them why you broke it, why did you break that protocol? So he says, "This one has been broken since it was written." That point was never respected. And I'm asking in the National Security Council's office has you ever in your one and only report since earlier found that this provision violates? No, I don't. Never. But in this, yes. In this, someone was in a hurry, someone had a special interest in finding any mistake, putting it in that report, and telling the press. Do you know how many people know about the Internal Policy Committee report? Four. This National Security Council Office? Four. It is very easy to determine which of the four could have misrepresented this to the journalists of the Evening List. I hope the C.I.P.D. finds it because she got a warrant like that from the D.O.R.H. Interestingly, one member of this House and a member of the committee says that as soon as he saw the report in the paper, Tudjman did not wait for either the president or the prime minister's press, he immediately asked for a report and an OTC and service statement. And one board member says he knows about the report. Four people only know and are allowed to know. He says I know about the report. The press is asking him, so how do you know? So I'm not crazy to reveal my sources to you. Confused, the second day journalists insist on how he knows, how he knows, he says, so I'm a member of the Committee on Internal Policy. That's what he says the day before, the day before the reports even came to the board. And now look at the situation we have. We have, unfortunately, and it's not my fault, I didn't press charges, we have one party charged with criminal charges, unfortunately. I'm not too happy that this is happening to us in the state. We have a head of the party who was head of the secret service and we have in the paper a discovery of the fact that a mob group is working on them, that they're being investigated and that we're being interrupted. One situation very dangerous, very dangerous for national security. Because if the president of the anti-Corruption Party has his very good ties in the intelligence community and says I'm not obliged to disclose how I know about a report I can't know about and we have a break in the processing of a police criminal group. I think you understand now why this debate better be conducted in this hour, not tomorrow morning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24045	Thank you. We have five replicas on your exhibit. First colleague Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24046	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Stazic's hearing is being held at this hour because it's up to you and your president of the Parliament to decide. Unfortunately, I have repeatedly said that it is not good that at the same time from one sphere, so the judiciary, we are having a debate at the plenary session and at the same time the parent board is sitting under the same law of the judiciary and we cannot participate. So, so much for the timing of this session. But here's a number of times you've said and you're kind of scared with it or you're saying why the investigation committee can't work. Because it couldn't get data that's classified and that's classified. This is simply not true because the investigation committee as well as the committee, why do you think that the Committee on National Security, where MPs also sit, can have insight into some documents, and the Commission of Investigation, which is also composed of parliamentary representatives, would not be able to see these documents. So, the documents can be seen, a certain statement will be signed on the duty of keeping secrets and ultimately parliamentary representatives under the Privacy Policy I think they also have access to under certain conditions protected data. And that's no reason. The reason may be the second one that you have and that you have brought out, but according to what you've said, I don't see the least of the reasons why you wouldn't want an investigative commission in which you'll have a majority again and yet you'll be able to say it all and explore how you say it in that direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24047	Replication response, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24048	Now, my colleague, Lovrin, you ask me, and why the Committee on Internal Policy should now work on classified documents, and the Parliament should not be there when MPs are here. Well, because that's what it says in our Rules of Procedure. Well, look, they're also on the Committee on Culture, but these MPs can't go to SOA and ask for questioning, and they're also agents. Well, that's the work of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. Well, I guess we can be that logical.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24049	Tomislav Culjak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24050	Here I am also sorry that this debate is not in the morning that the Croatian public hears the arguments for the establishment of this Research Commission, but here I want my colleague Stazić to say he has said that the full truth has been learned. We couldn't find out the full truth as the Committee on National Security because most of the committee and most of the committee decided to carry out only certain activities, that means only over certain, conversations with certain people, and until we could hold talks with other people who were involved with SOA and then again by the will of the majority. He also said that the Council Office said that in its finding there were no violations of the law by the MUP, i.e. Directorships, but you must say that and you must know that the Office of the National Security Council does not have the right to control the MUP and that they did not exercise supervision of the MUP but rather of the Operational and Technical Centre and that they have established that they were designated, that the OTC carried out at the request of the MUP a certain measure. And in that part of it, you're wrong, and they just realized that measures were made, actually lists for SOA people. And as for the office shift, the head of the council's office, you must know that the president and the prime minister together, every day and today, can change and tomorrow appoint another director, and then the day after that and every day like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24051	The answer to the replica Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24052	Now I'm going to prove to you that what I'm saying is true, because you're saying we haven't established the truth because the council office didn't take control of the M.O.P. But the council's office has no right under the law to oversee the MUP. So what do you want them to do, break the law? But listen, breaking the law was enough in this country, for eight years you've been doing it, let them do a little bit by the law now. The truth we've established has nothing to do with the relationship of the majority and the minority on the board, because look at me when we were a minority, we established the truth about the INA, no matter what we were a minority, and that truth is now established in court, 10 years in prison for your former boss. We, when we were a minority on the board, also found the truth in the truck investigation committee, and it was later proved in court. Look, the truth has nothing to do with the minority and the majority, it has to do with truthfulness and the desire to reveal truth. We've proven to you twice that we're capable of establishing the truth, and this time we've established it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24053	The replica Igor Dragovan.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24054	My opinion is that the story of the investigative committee is actually a de facto hiding the truth, because what we had on the Committee on Internal Policy is to establish, and also colleagues if they want to admit, in their own way, it says that there was no illegality, but the fact that as a citizen and as a representative there is much more concern about how people operate in the public security system, above all the Ministry of Internal Affairs, whose head was during the Government of Ivo Sanader, your President and Prime Minister was Minister and Kirin and Roncevic and Tomislav Karamarko, that at this moment we have that the most complicated, most complex investigations are coming out to the public of the underpaid police officers who have been working in the leading places and are now working, but these things are being revealed and at this moment the public knows that more than 6 officers of the police UNKKKKKKKK, who have been working for organized crime in Croatia, which is the fact. I think our mutual interest should be that way to work and work, not to hide that thing. And what's most important to say is that no one above the law was the president, the prime minister, the SOA chief, the assistant security intelligence agency, all the same before the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24055	Replication response. There isn't. Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24056	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, it is necessary for Mr. Stavic to establish an investigation committee to determine the facts, and the facts have not been established now, given that it is eclatively apparent that Article 7 has been violated. Article 3 The Interim Protocol on the Directorate of Police and OTC, and the OTC has made 26 thousand and 829 requests for the needs of the MUP, most of which included correspondence of numbers to do economic spying or to work... Who knows whose needs? [[You don't understand.]] So probably Agrokora. And it is clearly defined that it can be contained, the request may contain only one natural or legal person, and may have multiple identification marks or numbers, meaning numbers, the user may have two or four numbers and request that their numbers be controlled, but it cannot be completed 10 numbers, and in that bush lies a rabbit, if you want to admit it, and therefore it is necessary that the investigative committee determines what in these 26 thousand and 829 requests has been written that the nice greeting is that... times more demands, so it went up to 100 and a few thousand numbers that they controlled. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24057	Replication response, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24058	So listen, colleague Djakic, you're giving classified information to the public. Look, we found out about him as a board and signed that we had to keep him a secret, and from whom did you get him? Who told you that? You're not a member of the board, nor did you go into direct surveillance. Now, if you'll excuse my colleague Djakic, you're doing exactly what your boss is doing. You're doing the same thing. It's dangerous. It's dangerous for national security. Now you're saying. Excuse me. Yeah, yeah. When you publicly present classified information, you violate the law. You're breaking the law, and it's a serious violation of the law. Now look, you're saying it's necessary to determine if article 7 paragraph 3 has been broken, so we wrote it here. In the Committee's conclusions, point 2, point 2 of the Police Directorate's operation and the OTC's provision of Article 7(3) has been violated. ... Protocol on the cooperation of the Police Directorate. [[You don't understand.]] We've established the truth. Well, no one was interested in hiding any truth, so why would we do that? Do we have any reason? We don't. No reason at all. We've established all the facts. Did they break protocol? They did. We wrote that they were being violated. We also wrote that it is necessary to amend the protocol from temporary to adopt some kind of act that would at least have the power of the sublegal act, and we recommended that they do so as soon as possible. You know why? Yeah, I don't... You, outside the law, but to act according to the law. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24059	And the last replica, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24060	Thank you. Here's what I need to replicate to the Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, because I noticed in his presentation of several contrasts, contradictions that can be called absurdities. The first is all by law, but they've all been replaced. Then the second you're looking for an investigative commission because you're guilty, and we're not giving it to you in the SDP because we're right, so that's all that's unnecessary. It's the third thesis about the transfer, and we're sorry to discuss it in the evening, and we could do it in the morning because it depends on the opposition when we discuss it. And the 4th one you said the minister shouldn't know that information that came up because they might be dealing with crime but that the DORH might find out. We saw a recent case where unfortunately one of the deputies I think the state's attorney had to file in the middle of an affair and resign. I think that's enough contradictions that deny you in everything you've said and that might be the basic reason why this should be an investigative commission. However, it is known that you are the famous writer of satire, unfortunately all come from a time when you were in opposition and concerned with HDZ rule. Maybe it would be good and the times are like that if you wrote one satire and for this time when you're in power. There are enough topics. I think this is one of those. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24061	The answer to the replica Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24062	So now listen to me, it's always been your party's undried source and the hot one to write satire. There's no contradiction, it just seems to you that there's a contradiction. The National Security Council's office has exercised control over the OTC and the National Council's Office has certainly found that there has been no violations of the law. Can you understand that? But things were leaking obviously somewhere from the National Security Council Office because I repeat only four employees of that office should have known about the report. Well, of course the prime minister and president have replaced the boss. For my taste, they should have replaced all four. But what else will they do than replace the head of the office's data leak, what else can they do? And that's your contradiction. Well, there's no contradiction here, it's just logical that it comes from one another. Because the data leak was removed from the boss, very simple.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24063	We're continuing the club debate. HDSSB club and colleague Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24064	Thank you. Dear Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Should I comment on the statement that it is regrettable to the ruling representative that the debate takes place at this hour. A series of discussions in the Croatian Parliament is clearly brought by the ruling majority. But we're not wasting any time on it. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, I will say right at the beginning, we are against the establishment of this investigation committee and against the establishment of similar investigative committees because it is worth the old saying, if you want to hide something then establish a commission. In the former state, commissions were established, and now commissions. Or if you want a little work done to keep something unclear, shoved under the carpet, then set up an investigative commission. That's what happened. That's how it is now. That was the case in this case of the INA investigation two years ago if I'm not mistaken. I wouldn't say it was true then, you know. And this resulted without a single conclusion after 6 months of vain work again came to what today's vice president of the Croatian Parliament was then saying, there is more politics here than facts. Finally, there was no single conclusion, but two proposals were the conclusion of then-the ruling HDZ, which by force did not want to determine the illegalities around INA, but found that all problems arose during Racan's government. This was the goal of concluding the HDZ part of the investigation committee that had the majority at the time. And the SDP's part of the executive commission at the time worked hard to prove through its proposal that the first round of privatisation during Racan's government was legitimate and beneficial by the Republic of Croatia. And that as it was then said, he did not condition a further privatisation process. Neither of us cared about what really happened. Similarly, in this case, the request for an investigative commission is a similar one. As a member of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, like all the other members, I have to admit, I've been trying really hard to figure out if the real truth can be learned. And I finally realized that in that desire to find an answer to two questions, that should also be said to MPs and citizens, the committee asked himself in such a way that he sought answers to two questions. The first question, and we have defined it ourselves, was there any illegality in police conduct, more specifically whether it has political responsibilities for the police minister, Mr. Ranko Ostojic. That was the first question. And the second question we asked ourselves was whether there was a leak of classified data, so secret information, from whom and from whom. These were the two tasks we assigned ourselves. And again, we've reached conclusions without answering both questions. Members of the ruling majority in the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security have worked hard to answer the first question first of all, but to be that way there was no illegality in the conduct of the police and there was no political responsibility of Minister Ostojic, without a real desire to answer this second question, only superficially, whether there was a leak, from whom and who. Members of the opposition, I mean representatives from the HDZ on that committee, went the other way. Its primary goal was not to answer this second question, to determine whether there was a leak, from whom and to whom, while insisting that the light of the stage be transferred to the first question, was there illegality. It doesn't need to hide the truth that that's how it was, it was seen in the end from the proposal for conclusions. The rulings gave their proposal of conclusions happy that everyone on the board had found, therefore indeed, not all of them had proven the illegal conduct of the police because we did not find any provision of any law, any article of the law and of the one in the present case. But you're not saying anything else, we found other elements that aren't harmless, there's no law being broken, but you're going to have to say that I was hurt as well as a man when he tried to convince me that we were being foolish that the Minister of the Interior didn't know what the Police Department was doing. Come on, please. And the explanation for that was that he didn't have to know because he could be the subject of an investigation. Well, it wasn't the subject of an investigation. If the Minister of the Interior doesn't need to know what the Director's Office is doing, he doesn't have to come to work, he can hold phone sessions. That is not true, therefore, and for this reason I, as a member of the committees, gave my own opinion without resorting to any proposed conclusions. And I'm going to repeat the basics of that. From the activities of all three institutions and the Office of the National Security Council and the OTC and the Police Administration, it is in itself a conclusion from everything we have learned that it is in the background of all policies again and that neither this current government has removed policy from the Police nor from the Security Intelligence System. On the contrary, we received recognition in a conversation with the leaders of these institutions that they knowingly violated the provisions of a document signed by both the Police and the OTC Directorate, knowingly, but said so since HDZ, so it is now. What makes you different? You are knowingly violating the provisions of the document that you must respect because it depends on both the state and the level of national security. In the case at issue, therefore, this represents nothing but unfortunately the continuity and representatives of today's acute Croatian authorities in relation to the actions of their predecessors. Today, representatives of the current Croatian government, headed by the SDP, are consciously using harmful and counter-regular methods that their predecessors from the then ruling HDZ have worked for years and that is recognised. And we just want to get over it. Here in the background, for example, it is not clear and loud, it is not the main objective of answering neither of these questions, but it is in the background of a truly dishonest battle for control, for mastering the institutions of the intelligence community, and it is in fact a real threat to the national security of the Republic of Croatia. And it's said the public interest is to make an investigative commission. Public interest agrees, and then we'd be on it. The public interest is to determine what was said in the explanation of whether there was legality or illegality in the conduct of Minister Ostojić, but it is also of public interest and to find out whether there was a release of classified information from whom and to whom. And it's a public interest, and that's what the proposer requires, the establishment of an investigative committee doesn't write, it doesn't stand, no one mentions. When it comes to writing down numbers that were now speaking here. Don't be surprised. It was also a practice during HDZ government. Should we mention a known case I was already talking about during, I think the trial of General Glavas has already been completed. You're... to track his phone has been handwritten by the ruling HDZ monitoring and members of his family, their phones. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I mean, what are we surprised at today? And you know what? I am also interested as a representative and as a Croatian citizen's response to this second reading. This poses a threat to the national security of the Republic of Croatia as well as to the fact that Minister Ostojic did not know about all this. He knew. But he was lucky that no article of the law was found that was broken. I can see that you didn't find and suggest exactly what was proposed, not members either. I am sorry that there are no representatives from the HDZ now, members of the Committee Mr Karamarko and Mr Brkic, who also participated in the debate, because it would be normal for them to be there. But I'm also interested and full of truth about who he is, I have no doubt there was a leak, at least I got that impression of who gave away the secret information and who. Because as I'm not sure the MUP didn't know whose phone numbers when he issued orders that they were, and he paid them those bills, as no one convinced me that Minister Ostojic had no idea about it. He certainly had a clue about it. So even Mr. Karamarko didn't convince me that he didn't get it, I have the right to doubt, that he didn't get an analysis of the newspaper's writings and press conference by the President of the State and the Prime Minister as he said it after two, three days when he had already lost a little bit and the compass had been given by my conviction, perhaps wrong, unauthorized data he had no right to and I'm interested in who he was from. And for what purpose? [[Grebec intrusion: Please conclude.]] Here's the conclusion. And if we really want to know the full truth, I suggested it on the board, and now I'm going to say it. I think she might find out. You know how? To send everyone involved in these not only the four people you said you had the right to know, but all of our members of the Committee. All 13 members and all those involved in this in any way. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you.]] Then we would come to the truth and probably answer, counting both Minister Ostojić and Mr Karamark Then we'd know if, which is the real truth. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Fellow Buric, please.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24065	Please conclude the hearing. You've got replicas, so you'll answer. Comrade Nenad Stazic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24066	I don't know what the interest of the SDP would be if it didn't reveal the truth? Well, the SDP has been in opposition for 8 years, and there are more Kirin, Roncevic, Vukelic, Karamark's men there than there could be people of SDP's choice or this minister's choice. You know what they were doing? You know what Chachia was doing? That's that famous Sanader bodyguard when HDZ won power? For those who gave physical protection to Prime Minister Racan, he said bring me Racan's dogs. That's how he talked to his cops and then sent them to be officers. What kind of interest would it be? Well, the SDP might be looking forward to finding out that one of these people is doing something illegal. Our interest is not, therefore, to hide any truth. Our interest has always been to discover the truth. And I'm deeply convinced that we've discovered her. Look, the minister may or may not know. Criminals work in the police department. Their job is to detect the perpetrators of criminal acts, and the interior minister is a politician. He's not a criminal. It wouldn't even be good if he did, so he gets involved in the investigation and tells the police professionally what to do, what not to do. Well, I mean, if I were the Chief of Police, I'd insist, I'd insist that I don't have to refer to the minister as being investigated and against who. What's he doing with it? He has to worry about the cops having a uniform, having cars, he's a politician. And I only get one more. You're saying these investigative committees don't make sense. Well, that's not always true. It's not always true. Two investigative committees are that they certainly make sense of this and this for the INA and this for the trucks no matter what we acted as a minority inside, but in the end we came to the truth and eventually we forced the institutions of the state's persecution to start working, and they haven't.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24067	The answer to the replica Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24068	Ugh! Dear Mr. Stazic, Minister of the Interior, all the ministers in the government are equally authorised, but the interior minister of the person in charge of, one of the most in charge of maintaining the level of national security because the threat of national security we talked about the other day may be both internal and external and terrorism and mafia accounts and all that goes inside that he does not need to know what is going on, that he does not need to be briefing because he has meetings in the morning, to take care of whether they have uniforms, a warm meal, socks and shoes. It's a task ingenuity. He's not an I.D., he's a Home Secretary. And let's not try to explain something like that or explain something that can't be explained in that way. The interest of members of the ruling majority committee was to give a negative answer to the first question. There was no illegality. And that's right. And in the reports we received from the institutions, I'm not going to talk because it's classified data, but one part I can say, right around these numbers is said that the moment they gave the warrant they didn't know they were listening to the head of SOA and I don't know what, and their phones are on the payroll of the MUP. The M.O.P. pays them, and you don't know, it's like having a kid's phone, you pay his bill, and you don't know it's his. Don't, I don't think anyone in their right mind will believe that. She won't believe a kid in kindergarten, not an adult.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24069	Thank you very much. Next replica Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24070	Thank you very much. Your colleague Buriæ was well established and found it difficult to believe such claims. On the contrary, Mr Ostojić and the Chairman of the Council for the Coordination of Secret Services who invites them and all other relevant factors and does not know what is going on. It just drank backwards in interpreting this if it wasn't for irregularities. As well as drinking backwards as with calling a debate at this afternoon when there's no transmission. It's the same conspiracy theory as we could see. It is difficult to conclude that the interior minister such as the chairman of the Secret Service Coordination Council has less information than the state's attorney, than the Director of USKOK or the Director of Police. We just can't accept it because it's certainly not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24071	Replication response, Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24072	I agree with you, Mr. Djakic. counterpart Djakic is true, I cannot accept as a man the fact that I am trying to impose that the interior minister does not know and does not need to know what is happening in such an important interior ministry. But I also cannot accept attempts by anyone to convince me that Mr. Karamarko, we are talking about names, Mr. Ostojic and Mr. Karamark, that he has come to know about this secret data analysis of media inscriptions and monitoring, by analysing what was said at the press conference of President Milanovic and President Josipovic. Don't make us stupid. First he said he wouldn't reveal the source, then he said it was normal to know as a member of the board before either of us was even Mr. Tudjman or asked for that yet, and then as a third excuse here, I did it analytically as a long-time intelligence officer figured it out. Discovered, everything is clear in the desire to retain influence on what no longer has the right, the influence on the intelligence community has been served by illegal procedures. And I am for it to be exorcised, but that investigative commission won't be forced out. Some competent institutions are doing so and some answers to this as I am about to say the truth are not, it is true, the illegal conduct of Minister Ostojić but by his actions and by approving that it was against the law as we have concluded this was done and he also threatened the system of national security because he also abused the intelligence community to collect political points. The SDP is equal to HDZ on this issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24073	Thank you very much. Igor Dragovan, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24074	I do not agree with my colleague Buric that this is a battle for mastering the institutions of the intelligence community. Because if it were a battle then 15 days after the government's election and formation, all the leaders of the SOA would be resolved and that by law without any problems for 10 months, 11 months these people had full confidence in this government. When you say that the same pattern of behavior continues in technology, the methodology of conducting certain actions is not true. You can't talk about SDP and HDZ because it's done by people who are professionals, and these are the same people who have done this job in the Ministry of the Interior for the last 3 years. The same, they didn't come back with a new change of government, the same. The same head of Crimea, the same deputy chief of police who was before, even some have advanced from the post of spokeswoman to the positions of operational police high-level executive. So, I'm talking about people who work in the system, they weren't brought outside. They were not brought by someone to the parliamentary majority, but are in the system of people I firmly claim to have been appointed by the HDZ, especially those in the SOA. I'm going to say something more in my individual discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24075	Replication response, Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24076	The same people, but the other minister, the second one's the boss. Let it go. How do you court one boss so much you're courting another to stay in the chair in the position you are. I mean, what are we talking about? Well, of course you're gonna protect your chair, now you're gonna be a servant and a new minister. So now we need someone special to explain it to? You were a kid with a bow to the floor and while he was Minister Karamarko, you're like this now and when he's this guy. But I'm not saying that anyone would have misunderstood, I don't want to talk about names I'm not talking about any of these individuals, I respect their professionalism, and I'm sorry for what I've heard that really this kind of behavior has violated one of those who've learned a very important investigation that should have reduced the degree of organised crime in the Republic of Croatia, and that's what's unfortunate, and the guilt of it with their sloppyness is also the head of the Ministry of the Interior, and those who have sought and received unauthorized data, and it's not by chance that the data ended in the media, I don't believe that it was by accident, I really think that it was through the media a warning in certain circles because they realized that they were listening to everything so you can't call and you by phone then hey listen to... You did, and then you let it go over the media. [[You don't understand.]] We have one media that cheers for one, and the other media that cheers for another, so I'm not running away from reality, that's the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24077	Tomislav Culjak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24078	Here's my colleague Buric, in the work of the National Security Committee, was not my goal, was not to hide the data, I can tell you, take the newspaper, read the newspaper, and everything will be clear to you, everything written inside you, you can also take the newspaper from yesterday, the day before yesterday, and you will see some newspapers publishing transcripts from the secret investigations of USKOK. If these data are declassified, we can ask those responsible to see if they're declassified and where they can be exposed in that one newspaper, a daily list I don't want to advertise. You'll be as clear as this case and this affair, you won't find out anything special, you don't need any additional knowledge, you have everything in the paper. Even if you add to that the press of the president and the prime minister in which they showed their hand and pointing their finger at the guilty, then you are particularly clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24079	The answer to the replica Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24080	Right, then we don't need either the National Security Council Office, or the OTC, we don't need the police department, we have a newspaper, and then we're gonna find out all about it. And that's the problem, which is what the newspaper publishes that should not have access to that information, they publish, the question is, where do they come from, when our hollow system is all over the girl. It's leaking everywhere. But if a journalist is already coming up with that information, and he can't, if it's a threat to national security and it's punishable. I ask a question and then how can someone who isn't even a journalist come up with that information? Yeah, by reading from the papers, someone sees from the newspapers what we don't really see, don't, now that we're just so stupid. I'm asking who delivered this to the press? But who also delivered this information to Mr. Karamark because he didn't find out by analyzing what he saw and listening to? If we don't need Mr. Culjak, if we don't need anything but newspapers, then we don't need an investigative commission, then let the press know the full truth about what's going on. We are concerned about the situation in which the security and intelligence system is located in the Republic of Croatia, and we all have the right to be very concerned together, because if this leaks, then it is a bad job of both the MUP and the DORH, and bad work and those used by illegal information, and they know that it violates the law and threatens national security.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24081	And the last replica, colleague Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24082	Here, fellow Buric, you have touched the topic of leaking information more in this latest replica with counterpart Kuljko, namely the major problem of the Croatian state since its very beginning, and especially after the end of the war and in Croatia, a culture or culture has been created to leak classified information, including the leak of official information, and I do not think there has been any minister or senior executive official who has not met with this problem, and is actually unprotected from such. I personally asked for protection from the higher bodies involved, but I did not get not only protection, but I did not get an answer to my two requests and requests to protect the leak of data from such an important ministry, at that time less important as the Ministry of Defense. And this whole case was actually caused by leaks of information, first and foremost from one level of police SCOK as the media says, and then from the National Security Council. It's from one institution that should protect more than everyone else's information not only its own, but all the information, especially classified information about the state, that this information does not leak. So what you said is not a question of whether there was a leak of information, it's not a topic, it's a question of who, who, who, how and why, but in this request for the establishment of an investigative commission, and that's a question that this House, not this case, and not any of the affairs of the affair should be very concerned, how to protect secret and official data in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24083	The answer to the replica Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24084	That is exactly what I also pointed out in the debate, in the light of the request for the establishment of an investigative committee, I see no demand to find an answer to this second question, but only to the first one, whether there is legal, or illegal, action by the Minister of Interior, Mr Ostojic, but we are interested in the answers to both questions. And I'm not saying, I repeat, I'm not saying because I have no proof either that Mr. Karamarko really got that, but I have the impression he published it, he said it himself. I got the impression that he came up with this information in a way that was not legal, as I got the impression from everything we were doing there on the board that Minister Ostojic was not innocent either. Our security intelligence system is like Swiss cheese, leaks all over the place, and that's what all the levels are for. And after what I heard and saw I'm really afraid for the national security of the Republic of Croatia is that not good. We need to get something else out of this. Don't go into the investigation committees needless. Well, it's clear that no investigation committee is interested in the truth, but it's a cover-up of truth every one of them from their own corners. We need to be concerned and learn from this lesson to ask ourselves a good question and start not to shift people, Mr. Dragovan, but to strengthen the national security system. We do not ignore the danger that threatens Croatia 21 years after it has fought its independence and independence from the outside, and as we can see from the inside.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24085	Thank you. It is up to the HDZ Club and counterpart Tomislav Culjak, vice president of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24086	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I'll start by saying why the HDZ Club keeps the need to establish an investigative committee to determine the facts about the legality and behaviour of the MUP in the collection of data in the telecommunications transport of directors and other top people of the Security Intelligence Agency. First of all, it is certain that the outbreak of the affair has caused enormous damage to the national security system, to the people of the security system, as well as to the reputation of the Republic of Croatia. The special interest of the public was awakened when it was found that the Ministry of Security and Intelligence had implemented the measures of secret data collection against the most responsible people from the Security Intelligence Agency, which is at the very least unusual and unacceptable. If it is known that each institution has its own constitution and legislation of prescribed tasks and obligations, if it is known that Minister of the Interior Mr. Ranko Ostojić is also the coordinator of the entire national security system, the logical question arises, why these bodies act uncoordinatedly and instead of acting in concert in the fight against crime, the directorate of police suspects and investigates the director and his associates. I note that it is professionals and people who are evaluated for their work by all who can evaluate their work abroad by the highest grades. Which was the real goal of bringing the SOA leader into connection with the people of the crime-mills is a question that certainly requires a clear answer and justification for such a procedure. The removal of the head of the National Security Council Office, which carried out the supervision, remains questionable and remains questionable and the replacement of the head of the National Security Council Office, which has established the management of the directorship towards the people of the security system and, in accordance with the law, informed the president and the prime minister accordingly. It is also obvious that the reaction of the presidents of the Republic of Croatia and the prime minister at a press conference that announced the replacement of the presidents and the bringing of SOA people into contact with criminals should immediately remove suspicion of illegality by the MUP and mark other participants as potential culprits. The public thought remained that the president of the state and the government wanted to cover something up. In all that has been happening in the national security system, there is also a major role in the inaction and irresponsibility of the Croatian Prime Minister towards national security in the Republic of Croatia. It would be much more useful if the two presidents held a meeting of the National Security Council and heard all the participants of this affair and then made a decision and then went public. They could and should, too, have had to convene a meeting of the National Security Council and make the necessary decisions in order for the national security system to do its job in accordance with the law and the Constitution. In the absence of meetings of the National Security Council and of the disorderly holding meetings of the Security and Intelligence Agency Coordination Council, not by adopting a national security strategy, by failing to adopt annual guidelines on the work of security and intelligence agencies, by poor conditions in ministries and other national authorities on information security, by failing to monitor police work, in particular when it comes to the application of specific safeguard measures under the CAP and Article 68. The law on police affairs and powers temporarily restricting certain constitutional human rights and fundamental freedoms. The government of the Republic of Croatia is destroying the national security system, thus making it impossible for the security and police system of the Republic of Croatia to operate at national level to weaken its efficiency and effectiveness in meeting obligations at international level towards NATO and the EU. As an illustration of all the above, they also speak of the fact that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has not yet appointed the Director of the OTC has not adopted annual guidelines on the work of the Security and Intelligence Agency for 2012 and 2013, and the National Security Strategy, which clearly speaks of the irresponsibility and non-responsibility of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as regards the management and direction of the national security system of the Republic of Croatia, which can have serious consequences for overall security and undermine the international reputation of the Republic of Croatia as members of NATO and the EU. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The draft budget and adoption of the budget are under way, and the National Security Council did not hold a session to discuss the proposal for a budget for the Security and Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia in 2013. Also, the 2012 National Security Council did not keep the debate on the National Security Strategy Proposal, which has not yet been drawn up, although the Government of the Republic of Croatia decided at the beginning of 2012 that the proposal for a draft national security strategy should be completed in the first half of 2012 in order to refer it to the adoption of the Croatian Parliament. All of these talk about the carelessness of the most responsible people of the Croatian government and of the president of the Republic of Croatia, resulting in a situation in which everything is possible because there is no coordination which would reduce the possible abuse of the system to the minimum possible extent. With the knowledge that there is a gray zone in the system of secret data collection in telecommunications transport because the existing regulations and solutions have been unarranged, with the fact that the Police Directorate does not adhere to the Interim Protocol on Cooperation with the Operational and Technical Centre, an additional possibility for abuses is opened. In addition to all the above, the fact that police work is practically out of control. The only possibility of supervision is prescribed through the Parliamentary Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, which almost does not use that possibility unless the need for supervision is opened for opening certain affairs. True, the National Security Committee has conducted the supervision of the services involved in the so-called so-called National Security Committee. But by revoted the majority, he concluded that there were no violations of the law with two separate opinions. We believe that surveillance should have included and held talks with the top people of the Security Intelligence Agency, who have been designated and linked by Police, Minister Ostojic and Prime Minister Milanovic and have been fully discredited, without any opportunity to prove the justification of their actions, but would, of course, be challenged by legal treatment, abuse and justification of monitoring of telecommunications traffic by the Police Directorate. Most of the committee held that it was unnecessary to hear the other side, and because of that fact it was necessary to establish an investigative commission to determine the truth. It is also necessary to request that USKOK, Minister Ostojic, the state's attorney and of course the prime minister, Mr Zoran Milanovic, be shown what is true. If we want to find out the truth, the Croatian Parliament will accept the establishment of an investigative committee, otherwise it will always remain questionable whether it was the legal conduct of the Police or whether it was about the management of the Security Intelligence Agency and discrediting and moving leaders so that similar people might be brought into the services, and those who do their part of the work professionally and in accordance with the law. Something else because of the truth, I have time, there were speeches here, and the replicas were talking, and my colleague Stazic was talking about people who were left behind, who were someone's people, people about Karamark or someone else, and now that we're listening to these comments, then actually this suspicion that I've expressed here is getting even more powerful because if you want to change people to have your people in security intelligence agencies, then it's a problem for the national security system. We who have been in contact with the National Security Committee for a long time have been able to gain insight into the work of the security and intelligence system as well as the police. We had the opportunity to accept reports and actually see the results of the work of the Security Intelligence Agency. It was an orderly system from which no data was leaked, but the outbreak of this affair has completely been discredited by the national security system and at this point actually dominated by Minister Ostojić as the leader, as the first man of the police and as the co-ordinator of the security services. I ask you why no National Security Council session has been held, why no plan and programme and work guidelines for the security services have been adopted. On the basis of which today's security services and military and civil services are working, on the basis of which programmes, which guidance if no session has been adopted, and the legal obligation is for the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the President of the Croatian State to establish both the plan and the work programme. And all of this I said certainly opens up a lot of things that could get a response after forming an investigative committee if we could determine the facts, if we had talked to the other side, because we only saw one part of the story that was done by the Director of the Police, and we didn't have a single conversation with the people of the Security Intelligence Agency. Maybe they were doing their part of the job in a legitimate way, and the police were doing their part again in a legitimate manner but not following certain protocols because the law did not regulate that area. You can imagine how arranged this area is when security agencies and police are not subject to the same law or rules regarding the collection of measures of classified information. One list of phone conversations is being conducted as a measure, and another is a simple procedure that they do normally. The request for a device for everyone, they don't have to explain it, and the code, too, is a different procedure when asking for measures. Because security services have to get approval from the Supreme Court, while the police are doing it by an investigative judge. This means an open one gray zone, the lack of legal regulation leads to the possibility that police can carry out certain activities and that they can in some way control people from security intelligence agencies, which certainly does not put trust in each other, and they should work together and should participate each with their respective legal powers in the fight against corruption and crime. One more thing. We see here and today we see every day, we can see in the paper, in the daily press how transcripts are published, transcripts from the most subtle investigations, that no one asks the question of where those transcripts came from. Who allowed transcripts from the latest investigations to be published in the daily newspaper? We're wondering what's going on, where's all this girl's data, who's giving that information? The best answer is that you need to see who's connected to who, very easily you'll get data on who's given certain information. And in the end, I think and I think it would be a good idea to establish this investigative commission and that the majority accept the establishment of this investigation committee, because in that way it could undoubtedly be determined that there were no violations of the law. [[Thank you very much.]] And that it's not about mastering the security system by... [[Thank you very much. You're out of time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24087	Nenad Stazic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24088	A colleague of Culjak, you've been building this whole debate on one claim, you've repeated it ten times, and the M.O.P. has been implementing secret data collection measures against SOA employees. Now I don't know if you don't know or know, so you're deliberately telling a lie to deceive who, I don't know the representatives of the others. Therefore, Article 68 of the Treaty on the The law on police affairs and powers gives the MUP the right to seek a list of phone contacts because it is not a measure of secret data collection. It's the original police authority like instilling an identity. He's looking for a cop to show him your I.D. It's his original police authority. And this is the original police authority, and it doesn't need a judge's approval, nor the Supreme Court's approval, Judge Supreme Court. And you know it well, or you should know it, and here, ten times by misleadingly telling a lie, a notorious lie. Furthermore, you're saying that by revoteing the Committee, it has come to the conclusion that there has been no violations of the law. So who voted you in your separate opinion, or you're the one who found it. Who voted you? Tudjman voted you out. You wrote it in your own opinion there was no violation of the law. That's what you've established. We asked Mishevic together. Have you been on the board? We asked the changed Misevic if there were any violations of the law. The man told you there were no violations of the law, and now you're here saying that by revoteing the Committee, he's come to the conclusion that there was no violation of the law. Well, I don't know why you're doing it now. I don't know who you're going to convince right now and everyone knows the truth. Well, we told her, so you wrote the truth. And third thing, you say your goal is to change people. Well, listen, if we wanted to change them, we'd change them right away. Ten months of trust in that system. But if you'll excuse me, just through Karamark, there's a leak that leaks classified data and they come into the paper, so no one's gonna beat it alive. That you'll admit to being... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24089	The answer to the replica Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24090	My colleague, Stazic, knows what the lists are, and I said that the lists for the police are not measures. For security agencies, it's a measure. So there are two categories. One's a security agency. When they ask for a list, it's a measure, and when the police ask for a list, it's not a measure. What would you call it? You can call it one way or another. And don't banalize the lists, because I certainly wouldn't want you to be listed by those who don't have to list or those who need to list me or anyone else, because the lists are determined by both the location and all the data that aren't just identifying who you're talking to, you know. That's what you should know. As for the head of the National Security Council Office, Miscevic, I told you already he told you that there was no, that he cannot confirm that there was or was no violation of the law because he cannot oversee the MUP. He couldn't even show himself about the MUP if the MUP was doing anything legal or illegal. He was right. The MUP had the right to look for lists, but it did not follow the procedures in the work, so they said they did not determine whose numbers were concerned, and of course they knew whose numbers they had been able to determine exactly who the users were because they were all numbers on the MUP and that they had a system that allowed them to at the same time when they typed it to show them who the user of these numbers was. So you didn't convince me at all that you actually wanted to know the truth or that you think this is all you're telling me is true.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24091	Dinko Buric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24092	Dear colleague Culjak, I think that we, as stated in the Assembly, are getting on the nerves of the citizens because we are trying to defend something that cannot be defended. Well standing, it's true, here I now have to confirm on the board we've all been together and with our two separate opinions we've found that we haven't found any illegality in our actions. And that's what we both wrote on behalf of you and me, so as a separate opinion. But I won't repeat what we said that we didn't find which provision of the law was not violated by Minister Ostojic, so it doesn't mean we haven't established and we have found that there have been any irregularities in the conduct and that we don't believe that he knew anything about it. But something else you said in your debate, which is very important, the level of cooperation between the various security and intelligence institutions in Croatia is not to believe not bad but catastrophic. They cooperate better with individual levels of our system in Croatia with the same level in Serbia, BiH, Slovenia, France, Canada and I don't know where but the institutions of the security and intelligence system between themselves within Croatia. It's like there's a frat war between them. One another, control one another and do harm in their own work. I'm really sorry about these people who ran this investigation from the police department because I got the impression that they were on a good track for being disabled by such an action. And that we want to find out the truth about how you said the polygraph from the president of the government, the head of the Security Council Office, all of us, and all of us board members, so let's see if we're all as innocent as we claim.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24093	Thank you very much. Replication response, Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24094	So, fellow Buriq, we in the committee, both of us, and the other, and the third, found that in what we did, we did not establish any illegality in the supervision we had done. First, this area is not covered by the law properly. So, there's a different legal regulation for the security system, and actually for security agencies, and different for the MUP and what's worth to security agencies doesn't apply to it, so we don't have anything to call on, and we have this kind of protocol that's signed that nobody's sticking to. And you have to accept and admit that in this surveillance that we've had and the conversations that we've had that we haven't talked to people from the Security Intelligence Agency and that leaves a dilemma about whether they did their job legally, whether they did their part of the job correctly and that someone showed them what they might not have done. So we didn't have a conversation with them to determine whose truth is true and whose purpose it was. Connecting these people who have not had the opportunity to have insight into the measures of secret data collection by PNUSKOK is a question of why the Commission needs to be investigated. They didn't have the possibility of where SOA people would have insight into the measures of PNUSKOK. Of course I can't have it. And what are we talking about now?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24095	Gordana Sobol, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24096	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So this is how my colleague, Chuljak, in his presentation, spoke several times about this non-compliance with the provisional protocol by the Police Directorate. I must therefore repeat here because we have repeatedly repeated this on the board but also in the discussions when we went to direct surveillance in the service of the protocol which is somewhere if I am not mistaken in half 2010. the concluded protocol is concluded between the head of the OTC and the Police Department. Therefore, to comply with one protocol, both sides are needed. Or if one or the other parties do not abide by it, then I guess there is, and there is an Office of the National Security Council, to whom, when it is regular surveillance or extraordinary surveillance, it can be said. As far as I'm aware, and when we were in direct surveillance, we were given direct evidence and the head of the OTC that they were never bored, no matter what in these 2.5 or 3 years there were over 50,000 requests for printing, it never occurred to warn anyone in this country that the possible police directorship would not adhere to this protocol. And they could've, by the way, the more we've also established a flash check that the breach protocol has been broken before. Now, that's the problem because this time the press has established phone numbers to imagine SOA leaders, not only the main ones but more of them, his assistants, but now the problem, and when some other citizens may be at issue then it's not a problem, I think we agreed there, but I think it should be repeated, there are irregularities in that part, in the conclusions of the committee that we have brought to a clear stand, anyway in one and other conclusions if you want to make changes to the processing of this legal act, even when it comes to this temporary protocol.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24097	The answer to the replica Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24098	So here's the thing about this temporary protocol and not keeping the temporary protocol and the fact that it's happened before, it's a fact of course, I'm not hiding it and I'm saying that it's happened before, but what happened before shouldn't happen, if it's harmful and if it's not supposed to be repeated. And the fact is that no director of the operating technical centre has been appointed, again I'm talking about who's responsible for the appointment of the director of the operating technical centre? Why hasn't the Director of the Operations Technical Centre been appointed? If he had been appointed then perhaps he himself would have determined that he did not want to work beyond that protocol, and what is worst regulation was not determined by that relationship, but by the interim protocol, and could not be called upon by any law, there can be no violation of anything that does not exist, and that is why I think it is good to talk to people from the Security Intelligence Agency, other people who have participated in this entire affair, and that any guilt or any illegality can definitely be lifted from the MUP because of the national security system, because of everything they mean in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24099	The last replica Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24100	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So, colleague Culjak, you spoke about the need and the need to meet the National Security Council chaired by the Prime Minister or Prime Minister, 12. The month, the end of the year, we believe that in this affair the water kate Croatian, it would certainly be necessary before a statement and a press conference to consider all the facts, to listen to all the subjects involved, to reach a final conclusion and not to find none of the necessary meetings without the plan and programme of work, without guidelines on the work of the secret services, without any acts necessary and necessary to ensure that this security system worked in all this time neither the Prime Minister nor the president of the state to convene a meeting of the National Security Council, nor the budget that was reduced to those services, as can be seen, we can also conclude that this is a clamperium in the conduct of the highest state services, which are not even led, and as you have said yourself, nor have appointed those who should carry out certain things. It is evident that something is hiding and that something is not right, since they wanted to do what they should certainly call a session, separate matter, and come with concrete conclusions, this is how it is seen to care for those who have sinned in action and did not want to sanction the right one. We believe that you as president, not as a member of the National Security Committee, have much more information about all of this, and that you can say a lot more about what was needed to do in order to make it the way the law requires and the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24101	Thank you, reply to the replica of Tomislav Culjak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24102	And the Security Intelligence System Act requires that the National Security Council is what it assesses... [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24103	Please look at the time. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24104	You're right, you're a colleague, Djakic. Otherwise, the National Security Council is scheduled to be held at least once a month, can be held several times, but if necessary, it can be held several times, but at least once a month. It is also foreseen that the National Security Council must be convened in determining the budget, when adopting the programme and the work guidelines, but of course here we see that the Prime Minister has not found a meeting of this National Security Committee all year long. This shows the government's relationship with the entire security system, and I believe that this needs to be corrected urgently and I suggest that this is also the way for the President of the Republic of Croatia and the Prime Minister to call a meeting and that at the meeting of the National Security Committee, they solve everything they need to solve in order for our security services to do their job legally and in accordance with the powers they have under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24105	We're moving on to an individual debate. First is colleague Igor Dragovan.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24106	Dear Vice President. The opening couple just looks around. Is the budget cut? Well, of course it's reduced the budget for SOA, so of course it's reduced, 465 million kunas are broken into that glass building. What do the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have from that? Nothing. And this debate is very, very tangling the debate of the Croatian citizen whether there were meetings of the National Security Council or not. Maybe it was, how do you know it wasn't? Maybe it was. For me, these sessions are to be held and no pomp should be made. Before those sessions were held, they made pomp, a big one, when Mr. Sanader ran it all together. Well, don't say that. Maybe there are other priorities. It's a standard of living for citizens to address on the subject. And I think you said the same thing about the budget. Eight years and the budget's been leaking all over the place, and now we're making lessons. I agree that legal regulations are not good and there is a space for human rights violations. And what worries me about what the HDZ suggests concerns me is a violation of the human rights of Croatian citizens. And here it is said that some people are leaders of intelligence agencies more important than Croatian citizens, and it is difficult for me to accept. No one's rights have been violated, and what we want to mention here is very clearly the legal regulation under which all this is done is the old legal regulations and the law on police and powers and amendments to the Security Intelligence Agency Act that was all passed during your term of office. It even wanted to end civil surveillance, so we barely kept it. So much for a possible violation of the human rights of Croatian citizens. And of course you need to put under control and better control of the list. That's what we said then and we'll change that so there's no abuse. I, passing this surveillance, remained appalled by the possibility of individuals who have personally brought and placed in places over the past 8 years how much the manipulation of the data of Croatian citizens, each of us individually. It's horrified. With relationships, godmothers, family ties, there are no people in the world that I have with that fact, and I'm appalled and it's dangerous. What I would like to say further is this, perhaps, in this part of what my colleague Chuljak said we didn't have this SOA's direct surveillance, so we're not with these people who are being treated by the police for being an organized criminal group. What were we supposed to talk to them about? And what were we supposed to talk to them about? What is worrying is the following confirmed the latest report by the MUP on police affairs, which is that in the past two to three years, organised crime in the Republic of Croatia has not been doing anything and it is worrying. Today they come out to see why there was nothing organized crime because criminals had people in the highest places at the source of all information on the state of the investigation. So then I ask what the Security Intelligence Agency was doing to get such people through security checks in the police national BSKOK and to sell small-time information to organised crime groups. Now that's a threat to national security. And I'll repeat it once more to each of us if the law breaks the law has to be the subject of an investigation because it broke the law, each one of us. No one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one, no one else is above the law. We're all the same before the law. And those who thought the release of information protected some did the most damage to them. I will repeat what I said and after the meeting of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. The investigation committee on the opening case is not required for reasons because the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security has done its job without delay as soon as it was not the case with the Trucks or with the INA because things were hiding. In addition, it was said very clearly that there was no legality at all, and this resulted in judicial rulings, despite the inadmissible but prison sentences, the top officials of the Croatian government who were at the time the HDZ presidents and senior HDZ officials, these are facts. In this case, the investigative commission and the proposal for an investigative committee should serve only to hide the truth and prevent further investigations. And that's my attitude. We do not have to agree on this, but the fact is that you are members of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, and we have the right to see and to ask for all documents in the relevant institutions, to get answers to all questions in the relevant institutions, and do not say that they do not sit on the side of the opposition in the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, unqualified people. So there's your party president who was the head of the POA, then SOA for six years, after which two years the Home Secretary who spent his professional life in secret services. There is also a colleague-in-chief, Milijan Brkic, who was a recent deputy director of police and led the police crime practically. So they're people who know, they know to ask, if I don't know they, they had that chance. Well, you too, Col. Culjak, have experience, and therefore, the committee was the only body that could do so by law, and at this point without declassifying documents, practically looking into all the documents available, and you did so. It wasn't a violation of the law and it was clearly not a violation of the law. If it's someone's recklessness not to tell what else he's gotten into another story, then it's much more dangerous for me because he wasn't supposed to be there in that story. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24107	Thank you. Four replicas to your exposure. Josip Djakic first.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24108	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Dragovan, yes, we see you don't need any security agencies. We saw at the beginning of your term when your officials didn't need security checks when they were appointed, and we saw how you were setting them up, so you were both in SDP and HNS... since they had a criminal record. We've seen you talk about it now and protect what's indistinguishable, especially that an investigative committee doesn't need to. It's desirable and necessary, so let's get things straight to the end. When you talk about maybe a National Security Council meeting took place, maybe they held a session somewhere, I don't know, I really don't know because nobody published it, no newspapers, so we can't even know. Otherwise, I think that every National Security Council session after that is known to have been held and at least some specific things are known to the public and come out. The second thing, they said the budget was cut, that 465 million kuna was smashed into the building. Well, the building is by me no matter who was in it she needed with all the security mechanisms that were installed in it even though I asked to make 4 police administrations for these money in due time and I wasn't satisfied that we..., but I believe that our country needs it as well as the services that reside in it. Therefore, nothing that has been done should be underestimated is certainly done well. Maybe I'd be happier if they were... 4 police administrations in Croatia and 2 new police stations to have even more space and quality opportunities for their work.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24109	Replication response, Igor Dragovan.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24110	So maybe it's not time to politicize about it, you're trying to pull something that's impossible to pull, you understand. I'm not going to start counting who's under investigation from your party, who's from the former government under investigation, in court, etc. And you get up neatly and tell me about something that has nothing to do with any truth, you just do the order to say something. You see, it should be known to rise like that and say... nothing is valid, and listen, I mean, we're like that, we've been raising our hands, Ivo Sanader told us so we have to, and so it was, you haven't even read it. And so stand before the Croatian citizens. I'm just telling you one more thing, the service, the police need professionally to do their job. I don't need to have these people's phone numbers on my phone, call them every day and talk to them because I don't think that's a representative. I think the local politician has nothing to call a local chief of police or God forbid to decide who's gonna be the local chief of police or call him in line. You can't do that. This must not be done in a democratic state if we hold Croatia as a democratic state.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24111	Tomislav Culjak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24112	I'm very sorry, colleague Dragovan, that you, as vice president of the National Security Committee, are bringing to the same level people from a security intelligence agency who are doing their job with criminals with honor. You put them in the same order. You tell me when you know all this so well, what laws have been broken by people from the security agency when, even though some of them have had conversations or contacts with some people all the way from the crime miles, who they should be dealing with, with nuns or who they should be dealing with. Their job is to protect the Croatian state from crime and organised crime and of course they must contact and have certain contacts. And here you are, agreeing to what the citizens have from SOA, so they have a building like that. So you must know that as a member of NATO, the Republic of Croatia has certain contracts as a future member of the European Union and that we must be able to fulfill these contracts in this part of the national security system and on this issue so that we cannot enter the European Union that our agents walk unarmed and that they have no system to ensure the safety of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. That's why I'm surprised by the way this is an insult to the people who work in the security intelligence system, in this way to connect with criminals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24113	Replication response, Igor Dragovan.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24114	It's a classic twisting of thesis and planting something I didn't say. You can interpret it any way you want, but I didn't say it, it's in the phonogram. I just said that when you said why we didn't accept going to talk in SOA we didn't consider what we were supposed to talk to everyone. First, we did that job for which, as a committee, we made a decision and secondly, what was the case, and the case was the publication of information in the Evening List which was false and incorrect and fabricated, the misrepresented report of the National Security Council Office. Well, you've seen what it says, it's a classified document and what's published in the paper. It's different. So don't put anything in your mouth that's not said, don't put it in your mouth, it really doesn't make sense. I will repeat once again, I believe that the system of national security, the security intelligence agency, the military, the OTC, must be top professionally laid out without the influence of politics, that's my opinion. Whenever I was able or wanted to take part in a certain way, except from the position of parliamentary representative and vice-president of the Committee on Internal Policy, which in a certain way and the law obliges me and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. There's no need for more than that. If someone has a need for that kind of communication, it's his style, but that's also the question of those people who are doing their job professionally, so that's how they work in politics, that they're going to go with politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24115	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24116	Dear fellow Dragovan, you spoke in your debate about one important thing, which is a violation of human rights, a violation of citizens' rights. The same thing was mentioned before, a colleague mentioned that it should not be brought into the same level of people in secret services with criminals, I think it's a typical flossula, there is no country in the world where secret services don't contact criminals and don't work for them, part of it, not everyone. There are no sinless ones, so we know. When it comes to human rights, 5, 6 years ago, on the table of your party boss, Mr. Ivo Sanader, there was a transcript of a citizen and a minister's conversation, I was a citizen, a journalist and a minister in your government, none of the others were under investigation, it was being carried out, and it leaked to my ears, this dirty work was being done by a security underground, therefore it is necessary to protect human rights, it should be placed under the control of the Secret Service, all along here being said that the bad situation in the secret services, the authorities were being prosecuted, the poor state of police. Since when? Ever since it happened, it's all collapsed in 10 months. Security has been compromised, so our top officials, then the DORH chief talks to foreign ambassadors about the biggest secrets in the Croatian state, the security services of other states know more than we know. Yeah. This country is at risk, and it's been threatened long ago by many.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24117	And Dinko Buric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24118	Dear fellow Dragovan, on a similar trail of violations of the constitutional rights of citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Do not violate the provisions of certain laws, and to violate the provisions of certain other acts had that power of law or a sublegal act could lead to violations of constitutional rights, because I will repeat our recognition during our work on the board that the provisions have been systematically violated and continued in this provisional protocol against the co-operation of the police and the OTC, and despite the fact that this is not a violation of any law, it is a conscious counter-registration of those institutions of the Croatian state whose primary task is to protect the Croatian state and its citizens from all forms of illegal and anti-constitutional, as well as from each type of so-called state. counter-registrations, which can ultimately lead to violations of the constitutional rights of Croatian citizens. One of the examples is if he writes phone numbers to people who have nothing to do with this investigation, not with a criminal mile, not with SOA members, and when it comes to the building, and I'm just going to tell you that I'm not against throwing money, but in the system, every country has to invest in the security and intelligence system, and so is ours. What worries me is that today we have a building that's outside... And after it's working... [[You don't understand.]] That's what's wrong. [[You don't understand.]] And only when you said that the priority of this government is not the SOA building but the standard of living, is that I have to correct you, because the priority of this current government is life and the standard of citizens, then we wouldn't have an increase in VAT, an increase in unemployment, a rise in the price of electricity, gas, heating, 21.1% of the poor, abject separation for agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24119	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24120	The destruction of Croatian villages and agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24121	Thank you. You'll continue some other time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24122	The priority of this government is the standard of living of citizens. I'm afraid not.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24123	Next in an individual debate, or last Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24124	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I wouldn't talk about these details, I'm not a member of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, but I think the topic is important, it's touching that the concern of the distinguished Vice President Stazic is that the wrong time has been chosen to discuss this important issue. I simply ask myself the question you are as far as I am directed by the Vice President of the Parliament, why didn't you ask for the debate in the morning so that our citizens really have a chance to hear what we're discussing here by this evening. But it was probably one piece that didn't mind, and I'm sorry that citizens can't listen to this debate, because as much as we bother them with these particulars of the committee's procedure, it seems to me that it's important what we're discussing today is why the investigative commission, what should it be, you yourself said that there's really no reason for the SDP not to answer everything that's related to the leak of information or the story that's the subject of the investigative commission, so I almost understood that you support our proposal to set up an investigative commission, and why an investigative commission? Because they have other powers and other methodologies from the committee itself that dealt with the issue. That this is how it tells you in the final line the fact that the Assembly has adopted the Law on Investigation Commissions, precisely in order to establish, for those issues that cannot be answered by the working bodies and committees of the Assembly, a special body which has the basis of this law and some special powers to be able to identify facts perhaps more precisely, perhaps more extensively, regardless of the fact that the number of votes of the parties has to be answered by the party's council, but that it can otherwise shed light on all the facts relating to certain issues. And what doesn't add up to you and the others who have been telling the facts in this particular case. It's not a question of whether Mr. Karamarko found out something he shouldn't have found out. The first question is how did something marked as a state secret find itself not only in the media but where it should not be found without these documents being declassified. That's the basic question. The first information on this whole case was published through journalists in a daily newspaper. After that, the interior minister declared himself. By the way, he said the State's Attorney's Office knows all about the case that then denied his claim. The third in the series was in a joint press conference by the President of the Republic and Prime Minister Mr Milanovic, who was in some way calmed by the president in statements that went beyond what he was supposed to say then. And now we come to an essential issue, which is the issue of national security, public security in this country, but I would say the personal security of citizens. Who has the right, under which conditions and when listening to your private conversations, your official correspondence or I don't know what could still be numbered. I am speaking in favor of this because yesterday in a daily newspaper a copy of a telephone conversation was published between the listeners, even some photographs, their authenticity is unknown to me, but the fact that these articles state names, last names of people who may not be at all responsible for everything that is already being put on the paper. I wonder what's wrong with these people's rights? What will these people who have found themselves neither guilty nor debtors, perhaps, in such a telephone conversation that their families, their professional career, their reputation in society will end after such information has been published? And who had the right to give the daily newspaper a copy of the phone conversation of people who were as nice as they say it under measures? We didn't get an answer to that question. And to make things more beautiful, and now it's a new link for you when everyone's already slowly insinuating the daily newspaper belongs to an interesting business group that owns an apartment that just happens to be the Home Secretary. So we're wondering how it's possible? Well, it was simply possible that the information was left in the apartment. That doesn't need government either, we don't need that, and that makes some conclusions that you don't want to talk about. We're talking about the past tense whether there was a violation of the law, there were no violations of the law, no sublegal regulations, and we're not talking about the essence of the matter. Who will protect those people who become objects of such service, and you reject the possibility at all that other committees and other bodies determine the truth about it so that at least they shed light on facts more than they were able to make a Committee on Internal Policy. But I'm going back to the beginning of the story, which is why there are investigative committees. If you think parliamentary committees can solve all issues adequately, then there should be no investigation committees in any case. Some have talked about their experiences of working in investigative committees, some believe that the case has been enlightened, others believe that it is unlikely, however, to have been known more than it is known today. And for what everyone has advocated about protecting human rights, it can only be good to talk about it. To see who uses these levers and instruments of individual services and for what purpose. And that was our goal why we asked to establish an investigative commission regardless of the fact that we are very well aware that we will not have a majority there that will prevail in making a decision. But it may also be good for the parliamentary majority who will be the majority and in the Investigative Commission to find out what it's really about, what people are, who are who they are. And we're just wondering if we're talking about this print of phone numbers whether it's allowed or not, whether it's a measure or not. Well, that's not the point. The point is whether or not it can be printed and without this insight is to learn much more about your private communications that no one should follow. This is the essence of protecting human rights, not looking for finesse in a certain regulation, in order to protect those who might be responsible for the fact that they have not done their job in the best possible way. I will not question whether they should be appointed, should not be resolved it is a practical matter and the right of any authority to determine how these people will be appointed. But I dare believe that the vast majority of them are responsible and doing their job in a good way. And I'm sure 25 thousand people employed in the MUP are not all Karamarks or Kirinov or Roncevic or I don't know whose personnel, I believe that many of them are their own. In fact, they are even banned from political engagement and whether they listen more or less to the authorities in a particular case, which is, of course, possible to determine, and we all have doubts as to how many they obey their commanders, or how much they work in their favor. But the problem is not just in the services, the problem is in the media, which in this way draws its strength and influence in society, because it can come to data that we ordinary mortals can only dream of. In view of all this, I am convinced, regardless of the initial disagreements that the parliament could most of the votes stand behind this idea and set up an investigative commission, so that we finally see the real truth in this case.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24125	Thank you. Replica Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24126	They're not investigative committees that are pointless, they're usually founded when the bodies in charge of doing something don't do it. A typical example was Roncevic and the trucks, for six years nothing was done. So is INA. But watch out for two convictions to prove to you that it made sense to, these commissions to set up. If the bodies had worked, no one would have suggested establishing a commission, why would he have proposed it, but that was, those investigative committees had come up with evidence after which the bodies had to, look, they had to react, they actually had to run. Everyone, look, every instrument is for something, this investigative commission that you're proposing is extremely inappropriate for this investigation because of classified data, I've already explained to you, so whoever's going to propose it, is going to propose the establishment of a body that he knows won't be able to determine the truth, he won't be able to. Well, now why he's proposing it, I guess so that the truth won't be established. You're right to wonder how certain data comes into the media, but what I can do to you, so your president said that he came to that data before time, and from some source that won't reveal it to you. Well, I didn't put that in his mouth. Well, I didn't convince that Karamarko said that, so that's what he said in the camera. So what can I do for you now that your boss has admitted that he's actually getting some classified information and he's giving it out. And the last point of the conclusions that you or your party refuse to accept did not want to vote, it is necessary to amend existing legal solutions and prevent the publication of classified data in the media, because then Karamarko could have as much data as you want or Djakic, but if the media can't publish it and can't publish it. And then they don't come public. And now why it was in someone's interest to publish these documents to end the investigation of the mob group, and listen to me, I really expect the police to establish that kind of connection.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24127	The answer to Davorin's Mlakar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24128	Thank you very much. Well, here's this, I didn't quite understand the replica of how much she's replicating my presentation, but I can tell you one thing that's a fact, and I was talking about it in my opening statement, which is that the information is concrete, which was a state secret published before the president kept telling me about it, before he talked about it, but your Prime Minister talked about it, and he didn't really know what it was about, so your Minister of the Interior talked about those facts and more than what he confessed to me, so the other bodies, the only one who had the right to know about it, and that's the State's Attorney's Office, so we're here in conflict with the facts, with the facts that we're talking about today. I'm on the same side as you, however, which is why we need an investigative committee to determine everything that the board couldn't and to determine all the facts that will shed light on the whole situation about the publication of the transcripts, probably and at least in an indirect manner will be a reminder of the later work of the service that such things or not happen which is harder to believe, or that much more difficult leak information than is happening today. And only for an illustration against those who were first advertised by the knowledge of certain state secrets if you want, was no procedure initiated, which is why I was also talking about yesterday's newspaper when the data that no longer has anything to do with this case, and again no one reacts to it, and the paper builds a position in the public.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24129	Dinko Buric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24130	This last thing you said to a respected colleague, Mlakar, is not the same if the Prime Minister knows about it and the president of the opposition party, you can't bring it to the same level, it's their duty to know some things, and the president of any opposition party is not. He doesn't even have a right. But something else you said in your debate, which is that it's not the primary question whether and from whom Mr. Karamarko got that information, I agree with this other part of you that this is also very important where the girl information came from and how the media gets that. You're absolutely right, and that's where we agree. But now it's not about Mr. Karamarko, it's about any of us. Don't forget that for the state where the security and intelligence community is held with responsibility, exactly someone said the government, I mean Mr. Culjak, and the government is responsible for that, and the resolution ministries, but we are also handling all of us if we are working in a way that is not in line with the law, because we are also parliamentary representatives of the legislative authority, so one of the pillars of the government in the Republic of Croatia, and none of us have the right to come to information that is not to be reached, there is no right to come, an investigative commission that if it were made up of persons who will ultimately reach the conclusion of the party's discipline, and these are politicians. What's the point of anyone working? I don't know how much of a conclusion when it's formulated. That it's an independent body that isn't even made up of us, but from the profession, yes, but in the end it's the job of the police, so let it work and let it determine the truth now.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24131	Thank you very much. The answer to Davorin's Mlakar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24132	Dear fellow Buric, I'm going to do it the third time because I think it's important. The first person who spoke and knew about the information said that the possession of the document was a journalist. The second is the Minister of Home Affairs but you said they deal mostly with intensities he purchases equipment and probably fuel for police cars and, of course, these 64 new ones that will be accompanied by specially guarded persons in Croatia because this is the best expenditure we heard after Faberge's eggs that we can afford. To say what they were not supposed to know at the time were the Prime Minister and the president of the state and in their performance they showed that they disagreed on how much they should present what they know in public, and they should have known the state's attorney who said he knew nothing about it. That's why we're saying it's irrelevant in the end line when Karamarko found out if he could read the same document from the press that had that document in his possession. But even that doesn't matter who's first and who's last is what's important is that they're information and how they found themselves in public. And we are constantly struggling with the rulings to prove that it is not a question when who knew but that the question is how is it possible for such data to go public in the first place. That's the key question. And because of that, even if it was a party's discipline, who knows maybe a party's discipline should count on an investigative commission to determine more than your committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24133	The replica of Gordana Sobol.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24134	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague, Llakar, I agree, you're right to actually wonder who it is that has the right to listen to someone's private correspondence record conversations, etc. The security intelligence law accurately speaks of what these are measures for secret data collection and to what measures whoever in this country has the right to control. In this case, it was about printing phone contacts, which is still different than when someone is listening to you, recording your conversations, etc. Yes, I agree with you when you say the basic question, and from that it has actually come from the National Security Committee as well as how it is possible that the data sent to the prime minister and to the president of the country had practically arrived before they were in the hands of a newspaper in one medium. Well, before I knew it, and that information was known to both the OTC and the National Security Council Office. No one mentions them in this case. But I'm not the one who's gonna be investigating who in that chain delivered the data to the press. As far as I'm aware, and as far as we've got it, we've been informed we're determining the crime of the police and at the request of the state's attorney's office. What concerns me in this whole story, and that's what my colleague Dragovan was talking about, is they all lifted up the dust, so by ignoring this second part of what the classified data came to the public but they all picked up dust when it came to the individual leaders of one intelligence agency, and none of the competent services, so the Office of the National Security Council never responded before when they were similar violations of the protocol, and when it came to some "ordinary" citizens. And that's the problem, and that's why we said that in this section of the Committee's conclusions we should work on amending and supplementing the legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24135	Thank you. The answer to Davorin's Mlakar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24136	With most of the esteemed fellow Sobol you said I might agree. I, too, advocated that citizens first not be such an object of eavesdropping that I do not seek these finer terms of special measures. But what I absolutely disagree with you is that by force he wants to defend something he doesn't give away. Well, it's not the operating center office or what's called the calligraphic association that they're writing phone numbers because of the adornment. Well, those phone numbers are probably written because they were the subject of research to say otherwise about listening or you want listening. Those numbers that are listed are phone numbers that first someone listens to and then they're written out, I guess. And I'm concerned about national security when you've already given me an opportunity to say what if they've listened to even the heads of the Croatian intelligence service who communicate with the heads of foreign intelligence services indirectly we've listened to even the heads of foreign intelligence services that are going to honor us and that will certainly help us not only to join the EU but also to the professionalism of our services safely and in some kind of good opinion and voice that we will have as professional officials of any kind in this case of these special services.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24137	Tomislav Culjak Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24138	The Assembly Committee has done a part of the work that we agreed on, about something, and we haven't. We have different opinions and different conclusions, but I believe that the interest of all of us in the Croatian Parliament and all of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia is to restore confidence in the system of national security which is now in this affair, and only trust between the security agencies and the police and other institutions is certainly not at the best level. And that is why I call also as much as you in the Croatian Parliament to support the establishment of the Investigative Commission because it will contribute to establishing the truth, to make all the talks with all the actors in this story, of course I think of people from the security agencies, the state attorney and all the actors who can say something about this case and that in this way we can restore confidence in the system of national security.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24139	Replication response, Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24140	And that, unfortunately, is the only weapon left for us to be able to reach a vote in Parliament, Honorable Vice President Culjak. Well, that's what we talk about all the time. The only de facto unknown I believe especially in the later afternoon that I understand less that my colleagues from the SDP have been telling me that it is necessary to determine the accuracy, the truthfulness of the data and, in particular, the possible abuse of any service that would be involved. And then it's completely unclear to me how the conclusion is imposed and that's why we're not going to support the establishment of an investigative committee that should determine such facts. I allow myself not to understand this very well, but I must admit that this logic is my side. Everything else that they are not allowed to work in such committees, that it is too long a process or that it is a process that someone knows in advance that they will not bring anything is completely the opposite of the nature of such a body that can be formed, the fact that such investigative committees have formed before and on the proposal of the SDP representatives when they have not done most in the Assembly and it is completely incomprehensible to me if we all care about the truth why at this moment one commission that will be reassembled by the parliamentary representatives, therefore there will be no new costs, which will be able to expand if you want your investigative actions or your questioning of the facts that have led to such unsatisfactory events, and thus surely in at least in a small amount to restore the trust of citizens and institutions that deal with such delicate affairs, I do not understand why you do not support this proposal. So I'll take another chance to invite you to still support the establishment of the commission.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24141	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24142	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I will especially highlight the reasons why an investigative commission should be established. It shall consist of a breach of the Protocol, on the cooperation of the Directorate of the Police and of the OTC in Article 7(3). We need to investigate who requested the correspondence of the numbers, who did the correspondence of the numbers, why it was accepted in the OTC and finally why it was done. These are issues that need to be resolved safely, which are not illegal but are contrary to Article 7(3). Protocol signed between the two institutions. And this is not a wasteful search, as SDP colleagues say we are talking about talking, but there are real reasons that it has been broken before, and even now. But now, too, those who should not be found have found themselves. People from the security system were found, but also from the economy, which had nothing to do with the procedures performed by PNUSKOK. And that's why we need to see who asked, who ordered, who did, and why? In whose interest?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24143	The answer to the replica? No, I don't. I'm closing the debate. Tomorrow at 9.30 we begin with the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-12-04-0.u24144	Proposal for a decision establishing the Research Commission for the determination of facts relating to the legality of the internal affairs of the Ministry of Interior during the collection of data in the establishment of telecommunications contacts. The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision to set up an investigative committee. This proposal is voted on as a previous issue. To accept the proposal, most of the votes of all MPs, 76, are required in accordance with Article 6. The law on investigative committees. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? What's the score? I find the proposal not accepted. It voted 33 against the motion for a decision by 83 MPs. Thank you very much. That's it, that's it. Dear MPs, respected representatives in the Croatian Assembly can begin work. We begin with - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 178. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to the adoption of laws. These are articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. If the work-body reporters want to take part in, it's here somewhere, they reported. They said at the front door. We're waiting. Do the work bodies want reporters? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. It's a debate of the representatives' clubs. The first club is the Social Democratic Party of Croatia and the respected representative of Pedja Grbin. Here you go.
