ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20430	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. This is one of those rare days in the lives of nations and individuals when everyone is happy, and virtually no one is deluded. This was an outpouring of joy, one of the ordinary healthy human joys, not fortunately because anyone had ever suffered or suffered, but simply a huge stone from the heart that fell on us, and this shows that we have a heart. The President of the Parliament remains, and I would no longer speak politically of it. Have a good trip home. Unfortunately, what I'm doing right now on the agenda is becoming some kind of routine. In the first year of office, this is the third time I've gone out for this pay phone to ask you for trust for new members of the government. I was never happy about it once, every time the reason was different. This time, the reason was that the first Deputy Prime Minister resigned from his post in the government, withdrew due to a final conviction for a car accident in Hungary that the court sentenced him to 11 months of unconditional imprisonment. I am obliged here as Prime Minister, as the person who proposed it and who, in a political and human sense, defended it until yesterday, a few words of clarification. I'd do it again and I'd do it for each and every one of you. Why did I do that? Someone said it was gambling or adventure. It's not! It's politics. It's a normal policy. It's a political partnership. It's a consciousness of someone's character and abilities, but also of the burdens and shadows that follow it. One second or one tenth of a second changes your life. You'd go back, don't go back. That this is a criminal offence, but not all crimes are the same. And the law, the Penal Code says that all crimes are not the same. There are various categories of criminal offences, various levels of social danger and unacceptableness, as well as in this case. It's not the same blood work with imagination and the accident you'd have, I repeat, if it hadn't happened. Two people were killed by an accident. Their families are destroyed, sad and nothing will bring back to them the people they lost, nor will this judgment. But in politics I will always stick to some principles in the hope that others will understand them. I will defend them, someone will attack them. I'm behind what I'm doing, and my advice to all of us is, I'm the only one not right now because I haven't sat behind the wheel in a year. Watch out when you're sitting behind the wheel, this could happen to any one of you and us. I'm asking you here to give the trust of three people. All three have been in government in a narrow or wider sense. This is Mrs. Vesna Pusic, Mr. Ivan Vrdoljak and Mrs. Anka Mrak Taritaš, who has been deputy minister in the portfolio of Mr. Vrdoljak. You know all about the résumés and careers of Mrs Pusic and Mr Vrdoljak because they were originally members of the government to whom this Parliament gave the majority trust. So, about who they are and what they're doing and what they're doing, I think you know. Mrs. Pusic was foreign minister. This, if you show confidence, would be the first vice president of the government. The first Deputy Prime Minister's Institute is the result of a coalition deal, a legal possibility and we use it, and that is the position that the first coalition partner acts as in Britain's Deputy Prime Minister, first probably in a hundred years. It exists in the world and it's a normal thing. Someone might make fun of it, but I see it as a normal aspect of politics. Mr. Vrdoljak has been Minister of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning so far. It's moving into the economics vault. So far, the economic portfolio at government co-ordination level has been covered by Mr. Cacic, who resigned. He was a minister of the economy. Mr. Vrdoljak is changing the portfolio in the government and taking over the economics portfolio, although it is not the parliament's decision, although it is not the parliament's decision to resor the economy's future government coordination will be covered and held accountable by Minister and Vice-President Branko Grcic. The place of Mr. Vrdoljak comes to the public politically and widely known, but somewhat less famous. It is Mrs. Anka Mrak Taritas whose career in the segment, so in the space planning portfolio above all qualified her as one of the first persons in Croatia for this job primarily in professional, professional, scientific terms and in political terms, because she worked in the Zagreb City Headship, and then before that in the profession, and after that for the last eight years in the ministry, in this same ministry as a high-ranked state official. So, as far as knowledge is concerned, expertise in a particular area of Mrs. Dark Taritash's, I'd say the highest league. Of course, you can't always find the most competent person in politics for every ministry, for every ministerial duty. It's not in politics like that. Politics and government are not the Nobel Committee, but political bodies that match the citizens and parliaments who support them. In this case, even in many other cases, we agree, but the same goes for the Prime Minister. I'm not the best at anything. In some things, I believe I'm not bad. My colleagues and colleagues, that's all. I hope this doesn't become a total routine. There may be no reason for that, but I kind of apologize for having to do this the third time this year. Each time for another reason – one health, another personal responsibility, third time a car accident and the word of the court of another country that we will respect, and which Mr. Cacic will respect. I want to thank him here once again for what he tried to do in the Croatian government, because in a year you can't change some things. His misfortune is in the political sense of what he did, and I know how much and what he did will not be visible for a short time. Then it'll start to be visible. I firmly believe that, not only do I believe it, but I do know some things. But I won't talk about it here right now because it would be pretentious and immodest. You'll judge for yourself when the time comes. This concludes my speech. Once again, I call on you to show confidence in these people who will continue, together with other colleagues, more or less with the same or slightly different job description, to lead the Croatian government and to fight for a better position in Croatia, for Croatia's greater stability, for Croatia's greater financial independence and for what is once called reform. It's our anti-recession program. So far, we've had fiscal consolidation, and we'll have no illusions in the coming and next year. It's not over. It's gonna be hard. The situation is remarkable because it's a crisis, because the circumstances we've become used to have changed, and we've considered these circumstances to be healthy for granted, like something normal. It's not like that anymore, it's different. In the following year, we are still waiting for fiscal consolidation and we are facing reforms, i.e. changes in social legislation, it is an anti-recession programme, that is what the state can do and for these reforms we will seek support from Croatian society, interest groups, trade unions, interested groups and political parties in the Croatian Parliament. If you can support us in that, support us, if you don't have to, but I believe you will eventually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20431	Thank you too, Mr. President of the Croatian Government. Before opening the debate, I would like to ask the honourable MPs and respected MPs, the respected representative Tomislav Karamarko, instead of asking for a break, asked all the presidents of the clubs in the Croatian Parliament to join him in order to perform jointly on the issue of The Hague verdict, a statement. Please respect that circumstance. I'm opening a club debate right now. Dear Representative Dragutin Lesar and Croatian Labourists.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20432	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister. First, I want to welcome General Gotovina and Markac to Croatia! If I calculated correctly today is 331 days since Prime Minister Milanovic and his ministers took over. And on average every 110 days is a new minister of circumstances. When Parliament voted in favour of the proposed members of the government, Prime Minister Milanovic also presented on behalf of all ministers a government programme for the 2011-2015 term. During all changes to the members of the Government, the programme was not mentioned as one of the arguments, nor was it obvious whether the programme remains as it was then proposed, so I suppose it is, at this point, so also in the part of the programme relating to industrial policy, the Government does not change its proposal or the programme. I will remind you of only four points of content of this government programme in the Chapter of Industrial Policy, and today we are voting on the confidence of the new economy minister. The government writes will encourage the creation of sectoral strategies as well as the creation of a stronger system of horizontal measures of industrial policy. In addition to the state of play in shipbuilding and railways and the disbursement of the state budget, the Government will develop a clear policy on the development of modern industrial sectors such as biotechnology, in particular pharmaceuticals and nanotechnology, and will determine the direction of further development of traditional industries such as the food industry, metal, petrochemicals and oil processing, textile industries, wood industry, electricity production, machinery and equipment for the chemical industry. And continues, the government will pay particular attention to seeking a solution to the survival and preservation of employment in industries that are in the most difficult position such as textile, leather and footwear. In particular, it will also be taken into account in the regional potentials of specific conditions for the development of individual industrial branches. It was written and written in the government program. Which is why the new economy minister should be working until the end of the mandate from this content of the programme is clear. When the ministers change, and the programme remains the same, then I guess it's time to make a short inventory of 331 days of realization of this part of the programme. GDP decline 2.2%, decline in industrial production 5.3%, decline in retail trade, indifference 44.06 billion increase from 55%, blocked citizens 233 billion with 15.8 billion, blocked legal persons 38 000 with over 36 billion kuna, blocked craftsmen of them 34 000 with 7.8 billion kuna, gross foreign debt of 46.5 billion euros, the debt of the general state of 172 billion kuna, which is somewhere 16 billion more than in December last year. With today's jobless 344 thousand, the minimum wage fell to 35% of the average salary, the average pension rate in the average salary fell to 39%. It's a temporary inventory of 331 days of economic, or industrial policy of this government and this resistor. The radical austerity measures taken towards citizens are carried out without mercy as pulling teeth lively. And the financial sector, especially banks, is still lurking. And that's what's not acceptable to us. And these proposals of staff solutions with this programme are now quite clear that it is completely irrelevant who is the minister of the economy if at all in Croatia and needs it because it is only an obvious question that someone will eventually have to put a lock on the Croatian industry. And for this reason, the Croatian Labour Club will refrain from giving confidence when it comes to the economy minister and proposed changes in the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20433	Thank you very much. Next is the club, the HDSBB club and respected representative Dinko Buric. Your Honor, I apologize to you, the motionary wishes to take the floor a moment ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20434	Actually, I feel bad that today, but we didn't design it at all, I have to react to this, but my job as Prime Minister is to react and protect the government. This is where I suggested showing three people's trust. This is a political home, a political debate is being debated here, and the debate of the esteemed representative Lesar was political. This is all he said when it comes to numbers is true. So what now? That's all true. I'm not pointing my finger at anyone, I'm not transferring responsibility to anyone, I'm just asking them to give us some more human patience to do something. That's what we do. But each one of us marks what he was doing or what he was doing, where he came from, and it shows a lot. So it's very important not only that it's said, it's important, but it's important and who's talking, so I won't refrain from such comments in this House, not before, not today, not even in the future, regardless of what might not be perfectly in line with some political manuals on the performance of the Prime Minister. But I'll try not to be personal, but I have to say this. So here in HDZ a bit of a generation changed, there were many before people who had an interesting political path to the left-right, but now it's less so. And here are people who could mostly not be members of the SDP and vice versa. However, until the day before yesterday, he was a member of a liberal party, which is not a union party. My party is being criticised for allegedly being cold to the unions, I think it's constructive because we have a difficult time and difficult negotiations ahead. But when a career unionman who has not done anything in his life besides that, he calls it here as if he wrote five PhDs, as if he wrote five PhDs on the items in the government program, it's his right but let it be known that he was a member of the liberal I don't like not human, I don't like political populists, it bothers me terribly, and every time I hear them, I will react even to my own harm. So, yesterday's leading liberal party member, which is marked by being so that perhaps little and elite is certainly not unional after 20 years of a fruitful union career, is his warm bed right in the liberal party. And after he stopped being the president of the club and the liberal party that had nothing to do with his program and acting with what he now advocates and what he's got left behind for people his whole life again. One legitimate agitator. Let him lead, and you'll see how he keeps his promises. This is not the way to make a standard address, but unfortunately it's the only language people understand. The moment he was replaced by the party by political circumstances by the position of club president, where he advocated liberal and neoliberal ideas because it was the party's programme, and he was president of the club, he remembered that it would be good to become a union re-unionist, completely legitimate, unpunished, purely in criminal terms, but in an ethical sense, doubting that we are all determined by what we were doing, where we are coming from, and where we are headed, the Croatian public must know this. Because what I said is true. Now you're going to tell me in the replica whether it's true or I've mixed up some pots. But I believe deeply, and faith in some value is important in politics that I tell the truth and that the public needs to know that they know not only what they're being sold, but who's behind the counter and what's underneath the counter.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20435	Thank you very much. A replica of the respected representative, Dragutin Lesar, has been reported at your presentation. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20436	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So I have to say that I'm surprised and I'm sorry that this debate has been turned into a debate between me because it's not a vote of confidence for me but for the members of the government but it's a choice of prime minister. I read the government's programme and presented the information the prime minister said was correct and said it was a political debate. And what was she supposed to be like, rather than political? Did he challenge any of what I did, perhaps misquoting the government program, providing incorrect information? He said he was looking for more time. How much? I didn't give any time-limits to the government, they gave themselves deadlines and made public announcements. How long? They didn't need to be told again. Mr. Prime Minister, first of all, when you're talking about someone's career and political career, it would be correct to tell the truth. I've worked in the industry far more than you have an internship in all. I was in the union movement for five years, not 20 years. You see what it means when you're not reading someone's life, but your volunteer PRs give you the wrong information. As for my former party that I've never publicly argued with a single word of bad about them, I'll never do that in any individual of their ranks because I stick to that principle and principle, just for a little while. So they really have become a solid liberal party, I'm gone. But it's not up to you to judge what I'm doing, it's also in the election part of the electoral body ruled, and in these locals will again have the opportunity to give their judgment. So it doesn't matter if the citizens of Croatia trust me, worry about their trust in you, not me.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20437	Thank you very much. Replication response, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20438	Here's to... because this is the first answer to the replica on this new system. So I'm saying that everything you've listed is numerically standing. I'd love to, and it's an important part of political dialogue and discourse if you're something to me, so give me my unbelief. I'm here, I'm waiting, I'm gonna stick my hips on my chest, just throw it at me. Tell me I was rude, that I was, that you can throw me, that I'm not rude to you. If I'd been, if I'd lied, that's what I expected you to tell me. You're quoting numbers, okay, great. As for your internship and your career, you're talking about mine, about not getting hot water drunk. I've worked for 12 years in the state service, I've had a good career, but I've been doing a job. I was talking about your political credibility, she's highly questionable to me. The voters have also decided in the next local elections you will probably get even more votes than before and it is my duty to warn of this inconclusiveness. This is gonna go away, people are willing to believe that kind of thing. But when we talk about credibility, this is convenient, since today is confirmed by the first Deputy Prime Minister, it's a person who's been talking and doing the same thing for 20 years, some don't like it. You, you're not that category, so don't compare yourself to that. I won't talk about myself. It's the things the public needs to hear. I don't like populism, I find it dangerous. Your left was suddenly liberal, he wasn't anything, your left was not healthy. The next thing we're going to talk about, it's just an announcement that you insist on, which is a referendum law, that is, changing the conditions for a referendum. I look forward to this debate, and I look forward to being able to explain some of my previous views. What happened in the amendments to the Constitution in the meantime and about what you're actually proposing so we'll see who's principled, who has sound intentions, who understands what representative democracy is, and who wants to terrorize the will of the minority not to the majority but to the whole nation. Because I'm going to remind you, and I'm going to end up with this, that according to the amendments to the Constitution, the response to the referendum is no longer over 50% of the voters, but anyone else, 50 people can decide on the referendum. In other words, every time one, as you suggest a minority wishes the entire nation, a political nation must go to a referendum. This is just an introduction because you gave me the creamworth to announce this debate that I'm looking forward to because I'm not a populist. Some say I'm arrogant. And now I'm done because I'm out of time. Excuse me. So every time I react to you like this, you don't get away with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20439	Thank you very much. We finished the replicas and the answer is not the replica. I now urge the respected representative Dinko Buric to present his position on behalf of the HDSSB club in the Croatian Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20440	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President of the Croatian Government with his, with our joint ministers. So today still under strong impressions one great day for the Republic of Croatia, one great thing we witnessed to God about two hours ago. It has been concluded that today we have a debate about what we call the reconstruction of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Before I say anything about that reconstruction, I'll just say two more sentences. I am sure and pleased to see that you have responded as you did at the beginning of this session today, and you have determined how important this is for the entire Republic of Croatia and that all one representative in the Croatian Parliament has clapped or not clapped, but has stood up and paid all due respect to those who have respected and earned it, our generals Gotovina and Markac. They should be happy to return to Croatia. We at the HDSSB club are overjoyed, and our happiness will be complete when he returns as innocent and free to Croatia and our Croatian General Branimir Glavas, which we are also convinced of. Let's get back to the government's reconstruction. As we concluded at the presentation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 23 December last year, so I will now repeat, this Government of the Republic of Croatia has full legitimacy to draw up the Government and Prime Minister Mr Milanovic, who thinks he is the best. Whether it will be so, whether it will justify the expectations of him, but above all, all Croatian citizens will show that time. 11 months since, not full 11 months since Croatia has ours today, this is our Croatian government because Croatian citizens have chosen it unfortunately did not meet the expectations of Croatian citizens. It has to be established. No expectations have been met or pre-election promises. And it's true, and we don't need to run away from it, that today we have no less than an increasing number of unemployed. It is true that we have what we have in pre-election promises, and today we are witnessing it. We've got new and bigger taxes. It is true that we have what we do not promise, and today is a reality for all Croatian citizens and drastic gatherings and electricity and gas and water and everything that is even possible to collect. Unfortunately, it's true that the poor are getting more and more. But what worries us is the fact that hopelessness is growing. That's not good. I will also remind you of a few things from that, from December 23rd, when we pointed out that when you represented people in the government that we were starting to believe that everyone you propose in the Government of the Republic of Croatia is coming from the belief that it is an honest and honest people. And we're not going to approach that any other way today. Only their work and their relationship and their behaviour not only in the government, but also towards Croatian citizens will tell whether this is the initial trust that we also show justified or not. We sincerely hope that expectations will be justified. And I will repeat, sincerely, that we hope that from now on, from the ranks of the highest representatives of the government, fewer statements that Croatian citizens are experiencing with pride and arrogance. We don't need that. Today is a big day for Croatia and I will not turn into the past. I will only point out that the reason why this government was reconstructed today is because I am undermining on behalf of the HDSB Representatives' Club we are not looking forward to anyone's misfortune and no one's evil. Only a very bad man could do that. What happened was a normal coincidence of an unfortunate event that we all said could really happen to each of us. And I will not return to what our impressions of the present, now former vice president, the first Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia as prime minister, are as the first vice president. I don't talk like a man, I don't talk like a man. They weren't positive and we talked about it publicly and clearly, but that's the past. Today we must turn to the future. This government will not be evaluated as any other government with the work or behaviour of one. You're a team, you have to be a team, you have to work as a whole and only as a whole will you be in the final and evaluated, no matter how much in certain polls the minister gets popularity. It is not about the grades you get, but whether you will justify what the Croatian citizens expect from you. I order you to be the government the kind of Croatian citizens need and desire and be different from the previous government that did not justify citizens' expectations. But I'm warning you, be well-meaning today and be different than you've been in these 11 months, be better. That's good for all of Croatia, then. Don't stay the same, be different, but for the better. Do not always view criticism as malicious. Criticism can and should be well-intentioned. It is our duty and our opposition to point out what is wrong, to indicate that there are possible and better solutions, and please never again allow yourself, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, to allow an unnecessary sentence that when someone initiates an initiative that is in agreement with the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure that because we will discuss it here, it is the place to discuss certain points and in the Croatian Parliament to call it that those who propose it do not want the truth but the noise. No, because we want the truth to be discussed in the Croatian Parliament, so we will come to the conclusion of no such truth, but more importantly, what conclusion will be drawn by Croatian citizens. So much for one statement that was unnecessary. We are still in Slavonia and Baranja with the feeling that the central state government does not have as much understanding for us as we expect it to have, that we are also making money for the damage in the Homeland War and for everything we have suffered and for the injustice we have suffered all these years because from the once richest end we have become the poorest not only because of the Homeland War but also because of the unreasonable policy of the central state government that marginalized us. In our discussions there must be emotion, that's good, but not only must emotions be arguments. We want the subjective but objective feeling to prevail. And so I will conclude, Mr. Prime Minister, by presenting today new relations of forces in the government of the Republic of Croatia with only one new person as minister, I will say on behalf of the HDSSB club, we are an opposition and we will be restrained on this by giving you the right to determine the team, but you take responsibility for how it will work and do not build the thunderbolts because the citizens are watching, assessing the Government of Zoran Milanovic and no lightningheads in front of them. It's your responsibility. And as today's Hague verdict has restored the hope that justice is indeed many times slow, but reaching, that evil be defeated by good I wish Mr. Prime Minister of Croatia that you return your work to Croatian citizens of hope. That's very important. Hope that Croatia will be the country we all wanted together, a country of happy, satisfied, busy people. And finally, I have to say something Mr. President about what you mentioned about the proposal if I understand correctly that the president of the HDZ Club has asked everyone together if I understand the club presidents properly sit down and agree to a statement about today's Hague-free verdict. I, on behalf of the HDSSB club here, must stress today's verdict and the release of Croatian generals is a defeat of the policy of location, identification, arrest and transfer. No statement from the HDZ ranks, few of those who did not participate in their location, identification, arrest and transfer, and unfortunately you, too, Mr. President of the HDZ Liberation Club, have nothing to do with it. Because if you were wondering, I'm not sure what it would be like. There is no statement from HDZ that will clear the mark that has been cast into the verdict in the mounted political process by Croatian General Branimir Glavas, who will clear the location, identification, arrest and transfer of General Ante Gotovina and Mladen Markac, no statement that will emanate the responsibility of the top HDZ summit, I am not talking about members of HDZ, the highest peak of the HDZ since the past three years because 7.5 and 5.5 years have been released today by Croatian generals innocents in The Hague and because innocently convicted Croatian General Branimir Glavas has been innocent in prison for three years. There are no statements that will justify and reduce the trauma of our generals and the trauma of their families. And so there may be a breach of the Rules of Procedure as much as you want, I will conclude this part, the HDSSB Club, not that it will not participate in any joint statement, but you are the last to have the right to agree on any statement. You should have come to a verdict in the Jelačić bank square and heard what people think about it. Mr. President of the Croatian Government to you, although we will be restrained, we want you and your new ministers to be different from the previous government, different than you were before, working for the benefit of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because you represent everything, not just those who have given confidence to the Kukurik coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20441	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to those who have reported a replica to your presentation, honourable representative, you have one attention to your behaviour at the speaker of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Representative, you swore in the Croatian Parliament in front of these representatives and the citizens of the Republic that you would use the Croatian Assembly speaker only with respect to Croatian laws, Croatian Constitution and legal system. That's what you said, and that's where you took your oath. Your personal position or the position of your club does not share either this Assembly in the assembly or I personally. I did not want to interrupt you, it is a democratic standard by my court, and I tell you that all citizens and all citizens and all people in Croatia are, therefore, the same in front of Croatian laws and Croatian institutions, as well as in front of the Croatian Court of Justice, and the judicial verdict is a powerful verdict of the Croatian legal system and Croatian courts. I will not enter your personal position, nor will I enter the party's position, but it does not match your oath by the representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much. Allow me, Mr. Honorable Representative, you've had your chance, you've said what you think, I'm in my personal position, and you're obliged to say this to you, you've hurt what you've sworn. Thank you very much. Now we're going to the replicas. Dear Representative Tomislav Karamarko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20442	So I just have to say one in a series of attempts I'd say petty political acquisitions points of the party, the follow-up that's been doing it for a long time. Please, Mr. Buric, who has been trying this for a long time, and at the heart of such things, I would say, I would say, a bombist structure is trying to score some points in Slavonia where it's obviously losing positions, so here's why we're so little bigger Croats than we all are. This is too big a day you know that I would look back, look back, and it would spoil our mood just like this, about what we suggested. The gentleman knows nothing about the obligations of the Croatian state in some times, does not know about the obligations that have been signed, and at least knows about Gotovina's actions, what happened, how it happened and who did what. So the construction of stories and desires of some who wish something had been exactly the way they wished someone would be detached, so that someone would be blacked out is not true. And soon enough, very soon, Mr. Buriæ will deny you, and then we'll see how you interpret it as in other things and a lot of things being denied, so you'll be left unspeakable. It remains on your conscience all of what you said today. I'm sorry you're ruining this day, you're really ruining this day because I think this is for a great unity today this is a great Croatian victory and I repeat the day of unity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20443	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, respected representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20444	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Karamarko, not to spoil this day, but I don't want hypocrisy to spoil this day. And it would be hypocritical for you to coordinate a harmonised statement on this. Stick to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Karamarko, as I have learned to hold the Rules of Procedure more or less. Therefore, because of the importance of this day, the HDSSB Club did not ask for a break, not wanting to politicise but sharing happiness with all Croatian citizens, let them be happy because they have the right as all of us, so we did not ask for a break. If anyone had the right to ask for a break, it was us. You're the last one who has the right to ask for a break. And about what role it was for you, you didn't silence me when there were many more of you, so you won't now. I still have half a minute. So, Mr. President, I'm asking you to handle this. So when you're talking about whether or not you were, I'll remind you of the action plan from Eve Sanader through Vladimir Seks, including you, Mr. Karamarko, as head of the PoA at the time, but let's put that aside now. Mr. President, I will no longer answer to what you have the right to your opinion as I do, I will not give this up while I am alive and will not acknowledge the findings... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20445	Mr. Representative, you're running out of time, Mr. Representative. ... do not use the democratic situation and in the Croatian Parliament disrespect your own oath to please, nothing more. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] Now he wants to address the Prime Minister again as a proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20446	... And it's very short. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You were on the best track so I didn't have anything to replicate, and then you went off the road. First, I think you went too far, you didn't ask for a break, and then you deliberately exaggerated. I'm asking you not to do this, as I ask you, but I believe you have the right to comment in the House and the power of judgment, that doesn't mean that they're all the same under the law. The only question is how do we interpret them, so this is about the ruling of the Croatian court, which is powerful in the case of your founder of the party, and he is sentenced to prison and it cannot be changed. ... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So I won't even say I'm begging you, don't see it in that sense. And I was quoting Waltaire, or Kanta, and there was someone making fun of the very important thing, "There's a free man who obeys the laws, not the will of an individual." Here, in the case of some people who are in HDZ, they did not obey the laws but enforce the laws. The man who enforces the laws is not free in that case, and that's his choice, and that's what I'm looking for. And if I was in those people's place, I don't know what I'd do, maybe you wouldn't be in that place. If I was maybe gonna do the same thing, it's hypothetical now. So I expect that minimum of understanding. And since I've got 30 seconds left and no, why do I have this long time? No, that's pointless. So two things. First, I asked you 200 and more days ago to ask me what people are and how many people are employed by political criteria and you haven't asked me again because I long to give you an answer in writing, and then you will give me a written answer to how many new laws as you say new taxes, I quote "new taxes" and higher taxes. Higher yes, VAT is 2 percent higher. Several other laws are lower, the total tax burden is no more, but you will then answer me by the way what are the new taxes with today's day. I don't know about any, but you probably do.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20447	Mr. President of the Croatian Government, you received the word "proposer", thereby not being protected from replication, but you did not use it all the time. Thank you very much. Let's go, did you look for a replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20448	Well, here I was thinking I wouldn't replicate it to you, and then you're...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20449	And don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20450	But here's the answer to the replica, so briefly. I'm not going to get into this one last one unnecessarily. We'll discuss it when those new taxes are announced. We've already absorbed the VAT. You announce new taxes on both real estate and everything, so there's no need to talk about it at all. Let's go back, I'm re- lasting, to what you're here for today, we sent you a message on behalf of the club, on behalf of all citizens of Slavonia and Baranja, and that's the answer to those who voted for us and those who didn't vote for us. That's the answer to the question you've been asked here when it'll be better. You have a term of four years and you have the right to either meet or not meet expectations, but the first 11 months are not good. And if we tell you that these 11 months in our opinion are not good for Croatian citizens then it may be our subjective opinion, but perhaps it is an objective reality. You think about it it's just subjective or objective. And I'm not going into any other controversy. We are here today because of your proposal for new members of the Croatian government and we have said what we think about it. We want you to succeed in making such a team to make all Croatian citizens better. I'm afraid if it were like this the first 11 months were that it wouldn't be like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20451	Thank you very much. We've finished the replicas and the answers to the replica. We're going forward with the debate. IDS Club and Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20452	Your Honor, Mr. President, Prime Minister, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. Yeah, everyone said this was a big day for Croatia, everyone said justice was served. The storm was absolutely legitimate, what was happening in the Storm is on the conscience of politicians. The politicians who sold out Croatia, the generals they sold, should have responded, not to our generals rot in prison. I dare even say that this is somehow the end of the Homeland War. How, as he began, justly. The people must have had the right to self-defense and I agree with everyone who said this was a first-class national event. Everyone was wrong to suspect at one point in The Hague court, it is Europe but I agree with the Prime Minister who said that what The Hague did and the messages he sent us was a huge test for all governments and all presidents. Both for President Tudjman and President Mesic and for President Josipovic and for the prime ministers from Mr Mateša via Racan to Mr Sanader, Mrs Kosor and Mr Milanovic. And I agree that all these people have acted in some way as they have positively imposed regulations at some point. But I also think that today's verdict is the great wind in the back of this government, only the truth of who will return the lost time to the generals Gotovina and Markach who has been sitting with us in these benches since '95. until 2000, who will bring their fathers back to their children, their wives and so on. As far as the reconstruction is concerned, and this is the topic, this is not just any moment, and I agree with that, too. This is a moment on one side where none of us would like to be in the skin of Mr. Radiir Cacic, but no one would like to probably be in the role of prime minister. This is not the moment today, and even this reconstruction is not the time for political reckoning, this is the moment when it is necessary to elaborate or suggest how to express myself, reconstruct the government. This is the moment when changes, that's my opinion, must also be as little as possible. This is the moment when the prime minister, and in the spirit of the coalition agreement, should be left at will to protect national interests, to protect these economic political interests, and on the other hand also to protect or implement these coalition agreements that were made before the 2011 elections. Radiir Cacic, what they all said happened was a tragedy, and he's dealing with it in some way, in his own ways clearly stoic. He's not the first minister to go to serve his sentence, but the only one who's ever done it for short notice, the only one who has to deal with it. That's why, with all due respect and to the victims in Hungary, I don't think there's anyone in my assembly, even outside of this assembly who doesn't have sympathy for Cacic right now. But as someone will say to him, tomorrow to me, and to anyone else. It is true what the predecessors said that Croatia has serious problems. Let's let go of that inherited story, the government of Mrs. Kosor, the government of Mr. Sanader, etc., let's let go of the conversion. Croatia is in trouble, it will not be better soon. Mr. Cacic tried, what he was doing was going to be convinced that I was visible in 2013 and I want to believe that this will be the case. In 2013, we will be able to assess this Cacic's work for the first time. I want to make it clear every good thing to the new ministers or old ministers, I'm sorry. Mrs. Pusic, Mrs. Mrak, Mr. Vrdoljak at a new function or I don't know how to express myself. Talk about economics, talk about economy, parameters, rates, growth, decline etc. public spending. I don't think today just doesn't make sense. Okay, come on, you should always talk about it. It always makes sense, but maybe today there's no need to talk about it. We have, here we are, or we will put into the 2013 budget agenda when we will be able to talk about all these parameters. Ministers at their new or old posts should be confirmed, however, to believe that Mr. Cacic has crossed their path into one easier part of the term of office. And finally, auctioning whether it's better or worse what was read in the media that Cacic left, I think it's beneath good taste. It is clear that Cacic will miss the gentlemen of this coalition, it is clear that Cacic will miss the government. It may also be a handicap for the opposition that won't happen to Cacic, which won't have that punching bag, but I'd be happier if that handicap had stayed in this government and in this coalition. And that's why I'm saying don't envy this government. I think the burning moment for the country that inherits it or takes over Mr Milanovic with his ministers could not have happened to him. But I also want to believe in the success of this government, because if it succeeds, this country will succeed, and in some way no matter where we are tomorrow, it will be a success for us as Parliamentarians.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20453	Thank you very much. SDSS Club and Honorable Representative Milorad Pupovac next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20454	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. President of the Croatian Government, dear colleagues and colleagues of the Croatian Parliament. This is no doubt an important day for all of us here in the Croatian Parliament, for all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and for all those peoples and countries who are our neighbours and with whom we live in the same region. It is important for those who have not believed in The Hague today as well as for those who have believed, and it is most important for those to whom today's verdict has brought freedom – two generals and their families. It is important for us because it will be a test of how we will deal with it today, how we will deal with it tomorrow, and how much it will be an incentive to improve between ethnic relations that are still fragile. How encouraging it will be to finish those jobs we haven't finished yet. If the court finds that General Gotovina and General Markac are not responsible for what they have been charged with will remain a question and remains a question of who is responsible. For those people who believed in an invitation to be able to rely on the security of the right to life, the right to a home and the right to protection, and that is not guaranteed to them. The question will remain of who is responsible for the huge destruction that has been a burden on numerous families, but also on the Croatian state budget, which is still burdened with hundreds of millions of kuna today to restore houses and settlements that were destroyed after the Storm. There will be a question of how and how we will build relations in the region that we have built to an envious level and on the basis of which trust and what new strength we will do it because of what will be those who will not interpret this verdict as we interpret it here in the Croatian Parliament. Our job is not to put everything I've said into another plan. It's our job to do all of this in our agenda as we've done so far. Then and in that sense, the full power will be given to what counterpart Buric was pleading for when he said we all got up. Then we can all stay and not just stand, but be upright colleagues and colleagues. That's what the Independent Democratic Serb Party's advocates' club wants, what it wants forever and what it wants in the future. Today is also important because of what the President of the Parliament has changed the agenda and on the government's proposal and its president, Zoran Milanovic, placed the point of change in positions and in the powers of former members of the government and leaving a member of the government. It's important because it's not a technical matter, it's important because really one man with enormous energy, but also with a great burden he had to leave. It's important because this government is going to need huge energy because it has an even bigger burden that doesn't have and doesn't look like it's going to shrink but it's going to increase. Which doesn't look like it's gonna stagnate, but looks like it's gonna grow. And for that reason for us at the SDSS club today's debate like it's not for any of my predecessors here is simply a technical matter. But that thing we, Mr. Prime Minister, as representatives of the SDSS support. Why? First, we support because you need the stability of the coalition that you have formed and which you run. More importantly, because stability within Croatia's political life is needed and it would be harmful to violate political stability in relations between political parties in Croatia in any way that could not be controlled. And I think for that reason no matter how many solutions may be found, your decision is good. Because without these two preconditions, it would be difficult to face those burdens that the government faces and those who will yet come. In that sense, we can only say one thing, politically speaking, the proposal you presented before the Croatian Parliament deserves our support. What remains a huge burden is not just technical, and these are economic challenges. It's not just personal nature as we've seen in the past year. So it's not just a question of how much energy, how much who has experience and how much energy and how little experience they have but it's a matter of measures, policies and energy that comes from there. In this situation, Mr. Prime Minister, we will be free to express our humble opinion that it would be good for the government to consider how to strengthen that dimension. You will of course know best the answer to that question. It seems to us that it would be extremely important for your cabinet and your government to be strengthened in this way, but don't mind us if this goes beyond what you consider relevant for policymaking in the country right now, but it's extremely important that this huge economic burden is deployed so that it is worn by different actors. It seems to us that the actors who are next to you, along with the minister whom we will choose, along with other ministers whose economic portfolio is in charge, there is a strengthened component that would especially strengthen those dimensions that are aimed at the economic component or at economic mechanisms or economic policies. I will not speak, although I would have many reasons, as some of my other colleagues have said about what we all notice is missing from our citizens, I will not talk about what this is all we should do because today is not the time. It is not the time because, at this point, it is of paramount importance for Croatia to get support, to strengthen and strengthen mechanisms and measures in the economic sphere in order for people who are facing the necessary rationalisation measures to get further assurance not only that these measures are necessary, not only that these measures are temporary but that they will gain further confidence that they will bring the results that you believe and that we believe here today, which will reaffirm the confidence of your new composition and cabinets and the entire government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20455	Thank you, Your Honor. Three replicas have been reported for your presentation. Let's get this straight. The first is Honored Representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20456	Mr. Pupovac, in a special part of your presentation, you asked the question that if Ante Gotovina and Markac are not guilty, the question remains who is responsible? For what? Who is also responsible for the Daleh, Aljmash, for Borovo Sela, for Krushevo, for Skabrnja, for Nadine, for Kiev, who is to blame for the Voćin, who is to blame for the Chetnikites, who is to blame for the Vishudovac, for Balin, for the Kussones, who is to blame for the Ovcara? Yeah, who's to blame? One proposal, so that you may not bid on who is where you're guilty of actually making a list of civilian war victims once and for whatever part they've been killed on, and that once you're in charge of the State's attorney's office to really determine who's responsible for each individual civilian victim of war so that you don't keep reading them as often as you're hearing from one side only who's guilty or who's responsible and for those I assume you're thinking of 260 victims of civil action storms that have been identified as far as I know. And as for the government's support, I really think the government must still be credible. And if I tell you that I guarantee you that GDP growth is 0.8% you have mine to guarantee, I am Prime Minister, I am Minister of Finance, and I guarantee you that GDP growth will be 0.8% and then at the end of that same year, I don't guarantee it anymore, I've given you optimism, there will be a 1% drop in GDP, there will be a 1.5% drop in GDP, so there will be a drop in GDP 2.5% if I remain credible and have your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20457	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20458	Well, I don't really have to answer my colleagues. I have a need to agree with what he's called. And repeat it once again here as I have repeated it in a number of situations and as I do in non-public meetings with those whose jurisdiction is in the government or government institutions. I won't list the places I could have said what I said. Because this country, in its 100 years of history, is filled with questions that ask who's to blame. And our task is that despite the difficult history we share, we find no answer to who's to blame, because it has to be done by someone else in politics, it's our job to find the answer to how we're going to end up with these questions and turn over a new page. I hope you understood the speech I gave today in the Croatian Parliament in this regard as well as the overall activity in Croatia in the last 20 years. I wouldn't want to compete with anyone in the last 20 years who's counted, counted, reduced, increased, confessed or not admitted. The point of my speech today and every possible speech tomorrow and overall action will be in the opposite direction, which is to find a sense of peace. And we are obliged as politicians to send that kind of message and then when we have reasons for the most different feelings between us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20459	Thank you, too. Next replica and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20460	Thank you, Mr. President. In his presentation, the esteemed Pupovac asked the question of who was responsible? A large-scale Serbian policy is responsible, and a large-serb Chetnic aggression against the Republic of Serbia is responsible, and that is the only answer. And this great day, this today's acquittal to Generals Anti Gotovina and Mladen Markac is a great day for all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Not only for Croats and Croats, but for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And this is a liberating verdict for the Republic of Croatia, because this verdict of the court of The Hague removes an organised criminal enterprise from the Homeland War, this verdict shows that the Homeland War was a defence effort, this verdict proves that Croatian soldiers and Croatian citizens were not throwing bombs around Belgrade, but rather a dubious one, and this verdict is a boost speaking for peace and for reason, a boost for all citizens living in the Republic of Croatia, this is the second Statehood Day of the new Republic. To the new ministers, I really want the Prime Minister to succeed. We're not making a fuss, but we're pointing Mr. Prime Minister to what's not good at your work. And don't think you're doing everything right. Open your eyes and see how you live in Slavonia and Baranja. Croatia is not only Zagreb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20461	Thank you, Your Honor. It wasn't a replica, it was your position, and we can hear them too, it's the Parliament, and it's okay. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20462	Dear fellow MP. Do not underestimate my or any of my colleagues or knowledge or the experience of Milosevic's policy responsibility for what happened to Serbs, for what happened to other peoples. But don't forget, too, that there were those in '91 after I went to the same Hague when there was no court yet, but there was a conference on the former Yugoslavia and I witnessed both under what conditions and with which faith Serbs in Croatia can live in Croatia at the beginning of the war. That after that, two days later, I received news of a terrible crime against Serbs in Gospić, to whom many who remained, those who were invited from Rijeka, such as Judge Gjorge Kalen, came and took over, so that immediately afterwards he and his wife would be pulled out of the basement where they were sitting together with all of their lives from the same grenades that came from the other side. That's when some of them said they were killed by the Marticians. If you think this is the way to interpret the responsibility of Milosevic's policy, that we will cover up all those who used it to do this kind of crime, then we do not understand each other and we will never understand each other. But we will understand how and how this policy is responsible because we have a deep awareness of it, a deep experience. And in that sense, I would like to say that if it hadn't been for 2001, 2002, then 2004 and 2005, that the people who committed this crime in Gospić might have been this story that ended today as the prime minister repeatedly pointed out and would not have had its course.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20463	Thank you very much. Third replica, respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20464	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So here I was offered by a fellow Pupovac who I have to say was a truly model coalition partner at the time I ran the government and when we were done, we were trying to complete the negotiations and successfully finished them. You asked how after today's judgment we would build relations in the region and here I want to say a few words. Easy, esteemed fellow Pupovci easy. We'll build them on the truth. So finally, in a symbolic way, we could say that today is the day and the end, the end of the war. In the truth that the Homeland War was just, defensive and liberating, that we were cast out with bloody aggression, that we had to defend ourselves, that the Storm was legitimate, fair, liberating action and that the generals who commanded the spells were the best thing to do for the state, for the people, that the action of the Storm actually helped Bihac not to become the second Srebrenica. This is the truth on which we will base our relations in the region in the future, of course as a NATO member and tomorrow a proud member of the European Union, and we have long ago made a decision in this Parliament all together by consensus that we will not put any bilateral issue as an obstacle to our neighbours on their Euro-Atlantic path. As the Government of the past years, we have donated the translation of the acquis to our neighbours in the desire that they continue this way, but it will never happen again because today it has been proven that there has been no joint criminal enterprise, that someone threatens us when we want to go to Knin and celebrate victory, as it happened in my term as the Prime Minister was asked not to go to Knin and not to celebrate victory and when President Tadic himself resented me last year when I welcomed General Gotovina and Markac. So never again, only in the truth, only in justice and I personally believe that it will build relations in the region from now on be much simpler and much easier.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20465	Thank you very much. Replica's response, the esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20466	Dear MPs Kosor, as you yourself said the period of cooperation between your party and the party I belong to was extremely important for not only the Government but also for Croatia. We did what we could, unfortunately we couldn't do more than that, but it's not for underestimating, either. I didn't share the questions I shared with you here in the assembly because I was challenging doubts but I shared that we should be aware of what our obligations are after today. And in that sense, I don't really have anything to rephrase about what you said, except to be aware of what our obligations are after today.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20467	Thank you very much. We're done with the replicas. The esteemed Croatian Prime Minister, Mr. Zoran Milanovic, is again proposing.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20468	One appeal. No matter what this parliament is and comes from words to speak and speak, I appeal that since we have said everything and that no one has said anything new, including me on the subject of judgment, war and porn, I appeal a little more to my HDSB colleagues that we no longer open these topics. It's just an appeal. I am, of course, ready to sit here for more hours and listen if necessary. Nobody said anything new, including me.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20469	Thank you very much for your short notice. Next is the HNS club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20470	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, Madam Minister, Mr. Minister and Mrs. Former Minister, colleagues and colleagues. ... And future Deputy Prime Minister, okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So it's pretty hard to solve a problem if you don't deal with it and you don't want to solve it and it's my way of getting into this story around The Hague because it's certainly impossible to avoid today. Namely, today's ruling by the court in The Hague has defeated truth and justice, which is not only Croatian truth and justice, but we are convinced of universal truth and justice. And of course I support the pleasure of which the President of the Parliament spoke the satisfaction of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But I would point out here about this little previous finding to a dimension that is now opening, which is that that judgment and that judgment that actually ceases de facto opens up the possibility that we are a little bit more concerned with those policies that depend on living and living daily. This Hague court for the last 15 years has largely taken our energy and instead of, of course, we couldn't avoid dealing with it, but often we haven't dealt with those topics that were our tasks, and so we have actually often avoided responsibility, and this court as a difficult political artillery was actually an excuse not to do our job and it is seen here today in the Croatian Assembly, but today it is forgiven. Today, the subject of the Minister's confirmation can be transferred to The Hague because it is logical. But it happened in just as important things when there was no reason for it, when we put this heavy political artillery here in the assembly, and that actually made it difficult to communicate on important issues and policies that were on the agenda, and that's one good dimension of The Hague Court. When I talk about it then I would make an unusual leap, so I would say something about the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Radiir Cacic, who did not have that dimension of avoiding real work, which is not quite so common in Croatian politics. So, to face the truth, to admit that truth to yourself, to show it to people, voters, citizens, and then even try and solve it because it is essential that it is not such a common mark of Croatian politics. Et these two dimensions undeniably had or has Mr. Radimir Cacic and only because it would be a shame that he was no longer in the government, and about his energy, about his skills, about his skills, and especially about his style, of course I will not talk about it today because I believe that these two policies, the two dimensions of politics are so necessary for Croatia and this Hague verdict will allow them to possibly get the right of citizenship in the Croatian Parliament and Croatian politics. In fact, there was no talk at all about ministers, future ministers, their jobs. Almost no word has been heard of it, except for the small dimension of the Prime Minister's exposé. So I'm going to say something about it, but before that I'm going to look back on what was here talking about what was going on in Croatia. The first assumption of improving our situation is that we are facing it, and the fact is that the Republic of Croatia in economic terms will not enter into other dimensions under difficult circumstances and that it has inherited a difficult situation. And that's a fact. And over the past year, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has only actually dealt with the process, facing this gravity of the situation by trying to lay the foundations for some new policy. And these downfalls that were real here are the question of how much they are the fruit of cleaning up the situation, and to what extent it may be the result of some new positive shifts we'll see about it. There won't be a long time and no government will, and neither will this government have the right to wait long to show its results whether it was good or bad it will probably not be allowed by the opposition, the public, etc. So, she's going to enter the space of political struggle and even when she's doing well. But you should see it. When we know that shipyards, ironworks, two of the most remarkable cases of DEOKI and Gredel are not working, then one wonders how come the decline of production, the decline of GDP in such a small country with such a small industry is not actually greater. How many of these four components even carry economic policies and it seems to me at first sight that it's strange that the decline is only 2% if there's no other shifts. But okay, we'll see about that, we won't talk about it. It is said that austerity measures create difficulties for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Well, saving is the theme of all the European Union countries and settling the situation in the price of gas, electricity, so this is the way of reducing the debt of the general state. Well, we could pretend that we can't see it, that the price of electricity is unsustainable, that the price of gas is unsustainable, that the price of heating is unsustainable. But that price exists and it would come tomorrow in the form of what the deficit of the state budget, the bankruptcy of the state? And this government did, she agreed, but of course until the real and visible shifts on the economic plan are gone, the government will not be able to win, regardless of its good intentions, good policy will not be able to get, of course, the support of citizens because citizens recognise only positive shifts. I will now say something about the changes that are happening in the government, today's decisions, or the proposals of the Prime Minister. One of the major difficulties of EU Member States, especially those entering the EU, is the issue of co-ordination of domestic policies and, in some ways, a synergy joint appearance in EU policies. And that is why, under these circumstances, it is good to set out the specific coordination for foreign policy and European affairs to be led by the first Deputy Prime Minister, Ms. Vesna Pusic. And that's the big difficulty we're facing today. Co-ordination of government policies and then especially all other policies. We are only at the beginning of that road, and policies are reflected in all other policies, so it is a good circumstance that we will have a situation in which we will have a special coordination for foreign policy and European affairs. As far as the economic segment is concerned, it is a happy circumstance that Mr. Ivan Vrdoljak, future Minister of Economy, has experience in one area that is a very important economic policy, which is energy policy, that he has experience of cooperation with the first Deputy Prime Minister, former Mr. Cacic, and that he will in some way continue the continuity of the starting policies. And we just have to remind, even if some here say there are no economic policies or horizontal or vertical so we don't need a minister of the economy saying these wise men, and the foundations of energy policy have been laid, the foundations of investment policy and the foundations of corporate policy over the past year, the laws on commercial societies and the laws on stock companies. We will see what the results will be, but these are the policies announced by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, thereby creating the foundations for the country's economic recovery. I expect, of course, that, or we all expect, that on these foundations the new economy minister will give and enable us to really experience not only a minor drop in GDP but also its growth very soon. And when it comes to Mrs. Anki Mrak-Taritash as former Deputy Minister of Spatial Planning, it is a happy circumstance, therefore, that she is also from that area, and this ministry in this investment cycle, which is planned not only to protect the legal security of ownership but, first of all, in view of the legal stability of investments, which is therefore the cornerstone of economic policy. We often complain from the world that this does not stand right in Croatia, most often justified, and that is therefore one dimension that will complete the new microstructure of the Croatian government in the area of the economy. After all this, colleagues and colleagues, the HNS Representatives' Club of Liberal Democrats will support the change of the government of the Republic of Croatia, expecting that you will start policies with new ministers very soon to deliver your visible positive results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20471	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Two replicas have been reported for your presentation. He is the first respected representative of Ivan Domagoj Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20472	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague, Rados, you've been referring to the universal, so I'm going to say that I think the figures are universal, and those figures are saying the following. Last year, to remind you all, in the second and third quarter, we had a GDP growth of 0.6 and 0.8% and a decline in unemployment. This year, these figures are catastrophic, drop - 2.2% and 1.5% and rise in unemployment due to the best tourist season in Croatian history. We warned you about all of this together in this Croatian Parliament for months at the beginning of this year, which will happen if the tax repression is raised. You didn't want to listen, parliamentary majority. I am particularly surprised that the post of Deputy Prime Minister for the Economy is lifted in this situation. I sincerely hope this adventure doesn't end the way the surgery worked, the patient died.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20473	Replication response, distinguished representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20474	So that fellow Milosevic's numbers are universal and that's the problem. Namely, your problem is that the figures are universal so they can't be avoided when they're written once they're seen, and that's that the external debt of the Republic of Croatia was 46 billion euros a year ago, that's that the deficit of the state budget was 15 billion euros... 15 billion kunas, I'm sorry it's a mistake, I accept your correction, but I understand both the wickedness and that the indifference, the internal debt, was 30 billion kuna. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] They're numbers and starting from those numbers isn't that simple. And not the post of Deputy Prime Minister for Economy has been abolished, according to the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20475	Thank you, too. The next replica and respected representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20476	Thank you. Well, here's Mr. Rados, you're in the initial part of your debate over the appeal of the Prime Minister who has urged us not to repeat ourselves with constant statements because in some way, underlining that we're wasting some time. But I can't answer that appeal the way the Prime Minister appealed to you in the initial part of your debate because before this session of the Parliament we were in the square and we felt so much energy among people, so much fire, these people dragged us, dragged us to talk, talk, say, say, say. They didn't tell us to shut up, shut up, just say it, say it. You're talking, keep talking. And we feel that we do not have the right to remain silent because at times it may be boring for someone to listen to us. You, Mr. Radoš, mentioned DIOKI and Gredelj, you know that the DIOKI case and problem today, some Turkish firm called OKI a number of years ago was the holder of the economic industrial development of the city of Zagreb. In a certain number of years there was some kind of a DEOKI and some kind of disaster, some foreign owners, and no one was therefore responsible in any way. How did the economic development operator of the Cereal Industrial Power become the problem of this country? How did it happen that Gredell's great company, a company that gets a billion kuna in cash in some relatively short time, disappears into bankruptcy and goes away? And that loses the credibility of politics because no one is responsible, no one is sanctioned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20477	Thank you, too. And a reply to the line, the esteemed representative, Jozo Radosh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20478	Dear fellow Đurović, you have done a lot of things here so that about DIOKI and Gredel, why the bearer of industrial production is destroyed Žitnjak on Žitnjak in the east of Zagreb, I think you have referred the wrong question. I'm not the kind of person who should be able to answer that question. As far as this fundamental issue of yours is concerned, which is the issue of the UN court debate, I fully support what your colleague said to the Prime Minister, which is that you've gone too far. That could be discussed, it's a daily political conflict, but there's a time and a time when some things are done for dignity, for celebrations don't open up. I didn't do it because he appealed to the Prime Minister, but because it's my style, I usually do it that way. Therefore, the Prime Minister's appeal had no effect on that. As for the story of the Hague court's verdict, we can talk, but let's not spoil that verdict. Some elements of your move not your own personal but your colleagues, have that dimension that won the battle in some way shadowed by the opening of unnecessary debates and accusations that we do not need today, perhaps tomorrow we will again go that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20479	Thank you, Your Honor. And as the last registered club is the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Tomislav Karamarko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20480	Honored ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. Here we will also show ourselves something about this reconstruction that is ahead of us, which is certainly in the shadow of this great day of history and the confirmation of Croatia's victory in the Liberation War against Greater Serbian Chetnic Aggression and that this war is definitely ending today and we must be proud of it. There it is, and not a story of reconstruction will surely spoil us, and we won't even say that it's a routine government reconstruction, because unfortunately the reasons for its reconstruction are quite different. I have to say, we don't trust this government. I speak very plainly. I don't trust this government because it has been driving us to experience this year in which nothing simply positive in the Croatian economy has happened primarily to the Croatian economy. And we have pointed out several times that we did not expect this government from Croatia in 5, 6, 9 or 10 months to create one of the Scandinavian countries, that economic miracles would happen because it simply is not possible. No one expected that. We're not that naive. I would say we rooted even for this government no matter how you understand it because the good work of this government depends on the quality of life of all our people, the population in the final and safety of our children and the guarantee that they will remain in this country. But the results are that and the numbers are inexorable and unfortunately there's nothing we can do, nothing good to say. The country is getting worse and worse. And Mr. Cacic, we were also against his appointment, of course. Why? Among the reasons was this, which Mr. Cacic unfortunately had this severe mortgage and the unfortunate car accident that took place in which two people lost their lives. Of course it's a very difficult mortgage, and of course I have to point out that in addition to the condolences that we expressed to the families and families of the dead, we're really sorry that Mr. Cacic did it. It is not simple, and as the prime minister said, in one tenth of a second, life can change, and unfortunately, it happened to Mr. Cacic. But when you created the government, Mr. Milanovic, you knew those facts. Wasn't that kind of an adventure? I'm not saying this really bad. Here I am trying to be realistic, trying to be kind in the whole situation. Wasn't it, after all, an adventure of entering such an arrangement and underestimating at the end of the neighbouring state as a rule of law. And today we have the epilogue that we have in the finale where this illusion lived that something else was going to happen. So the process itself was by itself a burden of terrible burden for your government I would say about the Republic of Croatia. We can even talk about elements of the reputation of the Republic of Croatia that have been violated. Mr. Cacic returns from Qatar and finds out on the plane or at the airport that he will have to go unfortunately to jail. And what does that mean for the Republic of Croatia? What does that mean for the people he just signed something or made a deal with? So we can finally talk about one technical level, one functional level of this problem, one rational level. Let's let that moral level go, it certainly exists, and it should have been taken care of as well. So I have to say that we have to be consistent, we can't support this reconstruction and all this together that I'm saying has nothing to do with the quality and reputation of the people you're proposing. Both Mrs. Pusic and Mr. Vrdoljak and Mrs. Taritas absolutely deserve to be supported, deserve our positive relationship, we want them to succeed. I repeat, and I'm going to end it, we really can't reconstruct it and we won't support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20481	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dinko Buric reported a replica to your presentation. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20482	Thank you. Here's what I have to say is that it was in the spirit of what's the point of the agenda and it's good that it is, but today's current event doesn't stop with the new currents. Here are your latest reports. Mr. Seks exclusive: Ivo Sanader and secret services organized the arrest of Ante Gotovina. ... I'll just, let you know, tell you the next one about your intention well-meaning, so here's the deal. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] 4 February 2005 information on the operation of the PoA related to proposals to improve intelligence cooperation on the Gotovina case. On 1 February, a working meeting was held with representatives of the POA, which was attended by representatives of the US and British intelligence services, and during the meeting, Mr Langly handed over the document to the representatives of the PoA with the following demands: a clear public statement of support from the Prime Minister of the Government of Dr Ivo Sanader and the President of the Republic of Croatia, Stjepan Mesic, on the work of Croatian services and police on Gotovina's arrest. Focusing carefully among others on Anta Kotromanovic, there are a number of other names, with regard to the requirements set out in point 3. So the director of the then POA says: we say that over Anto Kotromanovic, because of indications that possible logistics helps hide General Gotovina and his public statements, the measures of secret data collection have been applied. And here's the short-term, the signing of this February 2005 information in the conclusion of the POA is much earlier...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20483	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20484	That's what she was doing, and it was signed by the director, Mr. Tomislav Karamarko.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20485	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20486	Mr. Shakespeare confirms what we were saying.../The speaker turned off./...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20487	Thank you very much. Replica reply, distinguished representative Tomislav Kaaramarko. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20488	Look, this is really deplaced to get down to this level at all. At that time, otherwise the gentlemen were members of the HDZ... Please, they were members of some of them, at least Buric, I don't know who. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So look at the level of street talk, it's about the level of falsification, it's about the level of wishes of these gentlemen to disabling the HDZ that is kind of experiencing at this point, and here I am now in a party mood, so I just have to say it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That this is below every level and I can no longer descend to replicate and answer to this gentleman upstairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20489	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20490	Thank you very much, Mr. President. According to article 211 of Mr Karamark's statement that we were members of HDZ at the time, I have never been a member of HDZ in my life, nor will I be, and so will the Czech Republic, Đurović or Vinkovic. ... /The noise in the hall./...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20491	Please, honourable MPs, honourable MPs, retain the dignity of the Croatian Parliament. This really has nothing to do with the breach of the Rules of Procedure, it doesn't matter, don't pollemize with the table and the president, but in the spirit of the necessary tolerance in the Croatian Parliament I won't do anything, but it really wasn't an injury to the Rules of Procedure. It was an abuse. We're finishing the debate. There are no more registered clubs to discuss. I call on Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic to conclude the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20492	Dear colleagues and colleagues, in conclusion and in response to the latest presentation on behalf of the distinguished colleague Tomislav Karamark. I have to say, and I don't want it to turn out to be a doctor, but I have experience working in this House, or in the Croatian Parliament in four years while we were in the opposition and I have been called out to be inactive, not to speak, although the figures have shown that I have spoken 50 or 70% more than my predecessors and my party and your former prime minister but I have calculated. I calculated because I knew the opposition's representative was in a difficult position because of the Rules of Procedure and because whoever represents the Government has the opportunity to respond directly or indirectly a hundred times in a hundred ways. And that's your problem right now, and that's why I advise you to prepare well when you're criticizing and you're less improvised because I like to improvise, too. I didn't tell you half of what you were saying, and I think I'm an average intelligent. You accuse us of adventure, which is black adventure, so you are our PR or you are the opposition. Adventurous in what way? Well, I've taken responsibility under known circumstances and the fact that I'm proposing one man to be vice president of the government. He was doing his job, he was working for the state. He's like you said went somewhere, took a commitment. And what do you think because tomorrow he won't stop being worth it? The state is more permanent than me and you and Cacic. You understand? But now I'm telling you what you said? What you said isn't logical, it's not cerebral. I mean, it's not just a fact, it's not a fact. Here, throw it to me. Here, Jandrokovic will deny me. So don't worry about my party rating and my government. He's who he is. There's no such thing as adventure. It's a calculated action that only my party could have the damage but it's not adventure. You can say it freely, of course, but you didn't say it. You're talking about the interests of the state, and the interests of this state, Cacic, were good for me. Well, you said yourself that he went somewhere and took some responsibility. Well, you didn't question that obligation, you questioned its validity. She's unquestionable. Kurt's coming, he's getting Murta. You understand? But in that positive sense of the word, in that positive sense of the word. You're accusing us of what else? For bad numbers. The figures, as counterpart Ivan Domagoj Milosevic said, said the figures were universal. No, they're not. The figures are particular, particular, and especially statistics, very partial. And whoever can read them from them will learn something. So we can interpret them one way or another, and I'm asking you to be critical, strict, to imagine, to cross the border, to criticize, but I just don't agree with you, and I'm going to keep trying to prove that you didn't prove anything, nothing at all. So you said in the end that these three people were great, you said they were good, they deserved it. So, you complimented people and then you said you were against the reconstruction of the government. I'm sorry, that doesn't suit me logically. So, because the appointment of predecessors was adventurous. What kind of adventure? Well, I knew what I was doing. I took responsibility for that. I didn't harm the state in any way. I don't see how. The man was doing his job. He may have suffered damage from it, perhaps from it his party had. However, she may have had it but it has nothing to do with adventure as you describe it. So I'm not an adventurer in that sense of responsibility to the state. I'm very serious and calculated here, but in order to achieve something in life for yourself and for your satisfaction, you have to be a little adventurer, but so that others don't put you at risk, that you don't put them in an impossible state, and we really didn't do this. What did I do? I stuck to some principles. I'll explain them again. The man is innocent until proven guilty in court proceedings. Of course, it doesn't matter what the trial is and what the incrimination is. Of course it's a very different crime than a crime. Of course, your point about underestimating another state's judicial system doesn't stand. Let us assume that we have underestimated the Croatian judicial system, but rather the judicial system of another state. That judicial system is supposed to be independent, completely out of our control in any way. If we can't control it, then in terms of the Croatian judiciary and we can't, then we can Hungarianly do even less. So, to leave fate, I won't tell the country, but administrations, the justice of a third country. I will never, ever take care of all these elements and the severity of the crime and its behaviour and its competences and the fact that the president of the coalition party is important things. I've had all of this in front of my eyes since 2010, two years before I came to the Bane Court, and it wasn't easy for me to decide as it wasn't easy for you to decide and make decisions that now make you HDSSB colleagues call you what I find incorrect. Because it's a free man who obeys the law of any law but not one who enforces the law, and that applies to a judge, a little different from a state attorney and a head of secret service. And the state's attorney sees it again, and in the case of the Hague verdict, he's gone down with his charges, he's gone down. Even though 3:2, a very big bench, it's a thin line. So, until yesterday, people were accused of the end of the world, and today they're free. The state's attorney is a special category and must be independent and free, but he's kind of well listen to what I'm saying adventurous and the indictment is adventure. You claim that someone is responsible for the end of the world, and the other side claims that they are not at all. And where's the truth? The truth can't usually be in the middle - either you're guilty of the end of the world or you're not guilty. And today it's decided that these people of ours aren't guilty and it's respected. So let's go be, I don't know, I'm not giving any more classes. There was a replica. I disagree with you. Convince me. Convince me. Convince me. Yeah, but I don't agree with you so much that I have to tell you ten times. Nothing you said keeps logic, it just doesn't make any sense in what you're saying. Adventurous? What an adventure of God's people! Where did I take him, what adventure did I lead Croatia? Who slipped and fell off a cliff? Who's that wrapped in black? So let me get out of this booth on my own and let me run the government badly. So, of course you can figure that out. Of course Buric can also say that he disagrees with the powerful verdict, the Croatian court's verdict regardless of the oath. In my opinion, he can, but with all the political consequences that go with it. People will see. That's where I'm gonna stand. I see there was a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20493	Yes, he is, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20494	See how many fewer replicas there are than correcting an incorrect quote. Is someone's mouth closed? Everyone can speak freely. Wait, is that it? I'm sorry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20495	Here you go. Here you go. You're the only one who's talking.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20496	It's a political issue that the parties have discussed, and we've advocated it. So this is still cultivating as much debate in the Parliament. What used to be... Excuse me, Mr. President. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20497	Thank you very much, esteemed Prime Minister of Croatia. 7 replicas have indeed been reported to your presentation. Let's get this straight. The first is the replica of the respected representative Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20498	Thank you very much. I'm glad you announced me because the Prime Minister has already done this job that belongs to the... I say thank you for announcing me because the Prime Minister has already announced me, but otherwise it's your job. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] I'm sorry, as far as I know, the Prime Minister should be sitting down, that's the procedure, and I see he's lost, so help him out a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20499	There's no procedure, and I don't understand you very well, so I came here any closer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20500	Yeah. He can talk to me now, can he talk to me or must he wait for me to finish?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20501	Mr. Representative, you're talking and don't argue with me. Speak, you've got the word, you've got the word. That's the meaning of your replica. ... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20502	So, first of all, Mr. Prime Minister, you're very small-minded, you can't handle any form of criticism. You are the Croatian prime minister, you are exposed to the assessment of your work by the public, by the opposition, by the media. And learn to have the right to say what we think is wrong. When we talked about adventure we said that because we think that a man who had a burden as unfortunately had Mr. Cacic shouldn't have been in the government. That's not just the HDZ saying, so that's what the journalists who are very fond of you told you. If you're reading these days I don't know if your PR is following it. Or, say, Jelena Lovric, she's very fond of you, she wrote to you that it's your burden, that it's your responsibility. You're saying it's my responsibility. Yes, it's your responsibility now that Mr. Cacic was in the government. I will not speak of his results at all because they are defeated, but on the side of democratic standards, tell me another European country in which someone with such a burden and an unlawful verdict sat at the place of first Deputy Prime Minister? Such a standard does not exist in European developed countries. And that's what we're talking about. And today when it's over as it is, so unfortunately Mr. Chacic has to leave. He didn't resign. He has to go after the law. Excuse me. [[Leko: Finish, time.]] So he has to go. But you made it possible for all of this to happen together and it really affects the rating, the image, the perception of Croatia. So there's your responsibility and it's this adventure. And don't be angry, you've been sharply critical of HDZ. I'm sorry, we lost some time at the beginning. [[Intruder Leko: Time has passed indeed.]] You have sharply criticised HDZ, your MPs have also insulted the Prime Minister, and especially President Kosor. [[All right, let's get this over with.]] Those were words, those were insults that were hard to swallow at human level but you don't want to hear political assessments about your work. I'm asking you to accept that. [[Intruder Light: Please finish.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20503	Replica response, the respected Croatian government president. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20504	Look, this is where people at the bench suggest I ignore you, so I'm not answering you at all, and then you're gonna say I'm ignoring you if I don't answer anything. So, again, I don't understand. Someone's got a weak mind here. I don't understand what you're saying, I don't understand. Croatian I know very well, thinly not at all the word you used and which had the meaning you attributed to it, it's not a tender feeling, it's a sensitivity it's something else. So, if I'm sensitive, I'm not thin-minded. It's a delicate thing, or a third, and you're going to say again that it's verbal acrobatics, so you jump on the parter, these aren't verbal acrobatics, these are mandatory figures of logic, ethics, rights and relationships in society at least for me. So I repeat, Mr. Chacic was doing his job. Don't worry about Croatia's ratings. It has affected the Croatian rating so badly that it has even increased and that we are here at the threshold of EU entry, nothing has happened. The number of conditions was 50, now it's 10, and it's Cacic messed up. But I'm here to be that thunderbolt. Well, I didn't need Chacic, so that's what Chacic wanted to be. When you talk about me having to take responsibility, I take it all the time for everything, and in the end it comes to me for everything, for every thing bad, and for the good when there's more but now there are some. So don't talk, I beg you, and it's not my unwillingness to hear criticism so I'm here, we're talking, I'm just pointing to my seeing things, that's all. And I'm standing here because this business isn't regulated at all. I can run right here, I can ride the bike if you want in the opposite direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20505	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Tomislav Karamarko. ... Please, I didn't give you my word. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, some respected representative I called to end up with. [[I've raised a breach of the Rules of Procedure.]] [[Intruder Shucker: No, no, I'm hurting the Rules of Procedure you must give before.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20506	Well, I'm going to be really quick right now and I'm not going to criticize you anymore because it's not a day to criticize you too much, I'd say this is happening all together on a specific day, so you have a little discount. I'd only say one suggestion. So you know that every serious firm in Croatia, in the world, etc. In the employment of an important man, I don't know at which level a man must be employed to check whether these people are in criminal records and whether any proceedings are being conducted against them. So one serious under quotes "the firm" that the Croatian government was supposed to be didn't do. So here's why I mentioned this adventure. Understand that well-intentioned. Look, we really want you to make it. We didn't need this today, the adventure that brought us and brought you to this day truly unfortunate reconstruction. Unlucky in the sense that a man has to go to jail and that some people have died because of that, right? Therefore, this was to be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20507	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20508	You say every serious firm, first of all, the government isn't a firm and the state isn't a firm, it's not a corporation. The state is a state and our behavior today and our reaction to some of the things that concern that state shows that for many of us or for many people bigger than life, it is not a company. The company how which, say you have an obstacle to admission to the state service if you are being prosecuted, the criminal procedure states in the law it's against constitutional law because the Constitution says otherwise. You want to talk about it? Here's what I tolerate, so someone who's being prosecuted by a criminal act that's acutely proven and disproves something is an obstacle to entering public service, which is a constitutional right of citizens, assuming innocence before a constitutional law. You have a lot of requests that you shouldn't be so it's not some kind of political record that you forget that you might have been doing, if you're legally convicted it's important but it doesn't exist here. And that's why I defend the principles. You ask me about precedents, so I won't give you Berlusconi against whom 15 proceedings were conducted because that's not a good example we criticized him. And what about the examples of Impeachment against American presidents where the elements of Senate investigation and criminal proceedings are mixed. Huh? Let's say... /The speaker speaks English./...in the Lewinsky case where the president is practically appointed a special investigator with judicial powers and where it is essentially some other kind of criminal proceedings. What do we do about it? Is that president out or defending himself? Give protection to the principles tomorrow it may happen to you and me, but it may happen to someone. It's a legal state, a rule of law and a rule of law... /The speaker speaks English./...it's not a car school.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20509	Thank you very much. Before the next replica of the breach of the Rules of Procedure and the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20510	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. It is a shame such a beautiful day for Croatia and it is a shame after your kind of beautiful opening words that you had happened in the Croatian Parliament because you hurt the Rules of Procedure because whether the Prime Minister or any government official can't stand here until you give him your word. The moment the representative speaks he did not get the word and must sit in his seat. And you have therefore broken the Rules of Procedure. You have violated the Rules of Procedure and Mr. Prime Minister Mr. Milanovic is now not speaking on behalf of the promoter. He's replicating the MP, so he's replicating from the scene just like all of us other MPs because when we speak for the club we speak for it... by no means until his representative replicas him he can't stand here. He must be in place because here the representatives are first, and the Prime Minister is the guest in this House and must act according to the rules of this house. Peja's waving down Milletica all you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20511	Your Honor, I'm sorry, Mr. President, but I'll speak now. The Rules of Procedure order that MPs speak to answer parliamentary questions that is regulated and that is what we stick to, and the Prime Minister does not speak until I give him my word. This is not regulated and do not interpret it in your own way. So he can't speak until I give him my word You can't now, you can't now. [[Intruder: May I speak?]] So there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. If you want to verify this, bring a real request to the work body. It's fair, not to repeat the same story over and over again. You can't do it yet. [[/Intruder: Can I speak to you?]] Please don't, no. Third replica and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20512	Dear Mr. Prime Minister, the fact is that Croatian citizens are not interested in your reckoning with the HDZ at the moment. The fact is that there is a bad living in Croatia today, and the fact is that HDZ has contributed to this situation for 8 years as it is today. That's a fact. Is behind all those figures and the number of unemployed and the fall of economic production and the fall of national income are human fates. Well, here's to today my message is basically to make this Croatian life better. That life can be better through the state budget. That is why I call you again to understand that Croatia is not only Zagreb, that Croatia is Slavonia, Baranja, Srijem and I am asking you because I thought we would talk about maybe this year is the day of the Croatian Government, I ask you when will finally come to fiscal decentralisation if the problem cannot be solved only at the top. The economy can be launched both in local and regional self-government but not in poor local and regional self-government. I ask you when the relationship will change that all tax revenues go to the state budget and 3% to local self-government units. I'm asking you loud and clear. And I want successful work on the Croatian government and on you as Prime Minister because you are the Croatian Prime Minister and this is the Croatian Government and behave accordingly. And this part of the HDZ deal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20513	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20514	Let me finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20515	Thank you very much. I've allowed it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20516	I don't care what happens at the American Congress, what the American president does, I'm interested in how Croatian citizens live tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20517	Please respect the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20518	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20519	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica was respected Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20520	How come you don't care what's going on? Well, these are examples I think it's the same globe, they have political systems that we've taken over, so it's very important. This was not normally a replica, this was the current clock, and this is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and this is suggested by the esteemed counsel Schuker as questionable. Maybe he's right, but it's not a regulated matter. I approached this pay phone because I didn't hear Mr. Jandrokovic, I can go back there, but this isn't. You can hear me among other things because that's why I'm talking here. I can move if you don't mind me standing here but it's a irrelevant matter. And as far as you know, the Rules of Procedure have shown you in the current hour when, after so many years, the President of the Parliament had to explain to you when a club break could be sought. She's absolutely right. No, but to you from HDZ, he's absolutely right, so he's absolutely right when you interpret the Rules of Procedure... I said President of the Parliament is absolutely right, we don't understand each other for God's sake again. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It means telling someone that he's absolutely right to enter an insult, so I don't know what language I speak, Georgian. ... /The noise in the hall./... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] My colleague Vinkovic, so you asked me a question, and I will not answer your line.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20521	Thank you very much. We are going to the fourth replica of the respected representative Ivan Domagoj Milosevic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20522	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear President of the Croatian Government, I am not, everyone who knows me is not even an evil man, I am not even pessimistic, but by nature I am optimistic, and if we exclude today's verdict that I believe will, of course, bring us the optimism and hope that we all need so much, I am a short-term pessimist for the Croatian economy and for the direction we are going and we have warned you on many occasions in this Croatian Assembly because we care about this country. We don't want you to be a failed prime minister, we want you to be a successful prime minister and we want to compete with you with intelligence, quality and success. Otherwise my first name is Domagoj, this is Ivan's cross, so here's my thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20523	I'm sorry if I didn't see what was first, what was second, and what's last name, so I'll make it right. And now I ask the President of the Croatian Government to respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20524	No, I won't respond to the replica because the replica means the answer to some of my thesis, and you haven't responded to any of my thesis, therefore.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20525	Thank you very much. There's no answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20526	I'm gonna save a little time if it's about saving at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20527	Thank you very much. Let's go to the next line, Honored Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20528	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Government. So I agree with your finding that you're not a little bit sensitive because it really doesn't fit the definition of a fine feeling, but just because it implies that a person has an understanding of other people's feelings doesn't stand your finding that you said to the president of the HDZ Club, it's not right. I'm appealing to you, I'm going to stay very consistent with you again, so I'm going to defend Mr. Karamark, it's not right for any representative to think that you're going with the thesis that I don't understand you and you say I'm on average intelligent but I don't understand you because then you're sending us any message, that we're not even on average intelligent but unintelligent. So that's how much you know about malaise. But something else is special to me in your final presentation, I would say I would be concerned, you insist on the independence of all institutions in the Croatian state and I agree that they must be independent, but I underline what independence it is when the foreign embassy and foreign intelligence service, Mr. Langley of the British Intelligence Service, issued a request that we initiate the persecution and arrest of General Gotovina that took place in 2005 at a meeting held in Croatia. Which American or British intelligence any service has the right in one sovereign Croatia, to issue any warrants to the sovereign state.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20529	Thank you very much. Replica reply, Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20530	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, None, I fully agree with you here, and especially some state body, say the state's attorney's office should have that kind of contact, but you read it on the portal, right? ... Because it's not proof for me, you understand. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So I'm hypothetically answering you, neither but there's no evidence that it really happened. ... Great, paper A4. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So hypothetically neither, I agree, but I can't claim it happened. And otherwise, a series of things I can't comment on, and neither can the president of HDZ, because he can't, because in some things you're not a private person, you're not even a parliamentary representative. When I said I didn't understand, maybe the question was who was asking him too smart for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20531	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20532	Thank you very much, President. Mr. Prime Minister, we're here at a gallery like the Muppet show, so we're hearing less, but since I'm a doctor by the profession and it seems like I've heard an adjective cerebral or something, so I think it applies to someone's laptops, cerebras, I don't know exactly, but in that sense it seems to have been a word, so I'm impressed by your knowledge of the Latin medical dictionary since you're not a medic, but it's an honor. But when you talk about adventure, it was kind of positive or negative, depending on some of the signs and actions that follow, then there is an instrument of resignation. When a person disagrees with someone else’s opinion or actions imposed on him by another shop or there are cases that a person disagrees with his own opinion. There were these cases here in the Parliament then to resign, which is moral adventure or not. This did not happen in that case that Dinko was talking about in February 2005, and it would have been good if it had happened, then it would not have been adventurous but would have been highly morally assessed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20533	Thank you very much. Replica reply, Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20534	Thank you. In fact, it would be better if we both stuck to our professions because as I may not have used it, it may not be the best cerebral, but it would also be better if you stick to medicine and not architecture, because you're definitely not at the gallery. The gallery's upstairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20535	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20536	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would say that today is a glorious day for the Republic of Croatia and that the Prime Minister has tried in many ways to destroy or insult it. I, too, was forced by reason not to report to replicas at all today, but simply this situation is unsustainable. You, Mr. Prime Minister, spoke of your parliamentary experience and work towards the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, and now you have shown exactly what has changed your coming to power in both this Parliament and the Parliamentary Rules of Procedure, which is the fact that you can take unlimited time to give us not political lectures, but to deal with cheap, logical or philosophical discussions at least on what concerns this country, and about everything in terms of form much more. And by your behavior now you show that you are the one who can stand in the assembly where he wants, because party discipline does not give your colleagues the right to warn you of decent behavior. Each of us has a right to our own style. You have chosen to boast the style since the beginning of your presentation of the government, and this speaks not only of you, not just of your home education, of your style of rule. It speaks unfortunately of both the position and the way this government works. You must always keep in mind, regardless of your personal weaknesses, that you represent the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Government, so you should act accordingly outside the country, but also in this Parliament as long as the idea and the Constitution is that this is a system of parliamentary democracy. You're a guest here, not a ruler, and so be your guest. ... [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20537	Thank you very much. Let him answer the line first, and then I'll show myself about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20538	Was this the last replica?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20539	It is. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20540	Can I go there?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20541	Why not? Stay there, stay there. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20542	I'm here now. The difference is crucial. I'm normally elected as parliamentary representative to this House, as party president and bearer of the list unlike you. But we're the same. And here I come not as ruler, but as a person who responds to replicas. It's an institute that has existed in this House for years, but it hasn't been used. It was not used because it was regularly substituted with sulfur bombs called the correcting of an incorrect quote. Well, like you kept abused it? So now you're trying this institute but you're not doing it because it has a price, and the price is that I can answer you. The fact that I'm being boastful, that I'm being poorly raised, that you and your colleagues have said everything to me personally, I don't ask my disciplined majority to protect me like you praetorically protected your chateaus and leaders because that's not how we work. This is the Replica Institute. We have an answer on the line, and that's the problem. If you want us to end it, we can end it. Or you want us to go back to that diabolical institute to correct the incorrect allegations. Well, you haven't even replicated me since you haven't been able to concentrate that much. Do I offend you when I tell you that? What you said wasn't a replica. It was your attitude and something you would call an insult in our time, and I call it a picture of you. I don't think you've offended me. It's your method of political struggle, but it's a replica. Whether I'm going to sit or stand here or there it's completely irrelevant. I can make you feel better here, but my words will be the same, and this will look like a modern European Parliament where you can say what you're saying, but I'll say it like this. Take a look at a little session in the British Parliament. It's the same thing you probably don't care about. But these are the cradles of democracy. It's even a show where people end up with all kinds of feelings, but the public finds out something and that's it. That's good. So here it is. If you want me to never go out for this payphone again in this role, in this role of replying to the replica, but this is a replica, this is a replica. This is not a toxic correction to the false allegations that you have abused for years in this House, and now you can't, and it's frustrating.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-16-0.u20543	Thank you. Thank you very much. In the end, there's no more replicas, no more reply to the replica. I'm closing the debate. But I am obliged to say the debate was conducted in full compliance with the rules and legal standards and democratic standards in the Croatian Parliament. I leave the one who is not satisfied with the answers or the goals achieved with any replica or reply to the replica to my own opinion and to the Croatian public to judge these replicas and reply to the replica. There's no doubt that the Prime Minister can go out for a pay phone because it's not really regulated by the Rules of Procedure. Indeed, it is a business opportunity for a representative to go out for a pay phone if the chairman approves it whether he spoke on behalf of himself or on behalf of the club. That is not a prohibition, nor will it be while we are in good health. I'm closing the debate. Thank you very much for your warning. You've got a chance and you still have a business opportunity to write where to write. Now I give, do we have a quorum please? Yes, we do. Thank you very much. To show confidence, a qualified majority of all MPs in the Croatian Parliament are needed. And now I am voting on the proposal to show confidence to science professor Vesni Pusic, foreign and European affairs minister for the first vice-president of the Government of Croatia. I'm asking you to plead with me for the proposal. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes, 85 for, 30 against and 10 abstentions, have been shown the trust of Prof. Dr. Sc. Vesni Pusic, Minister of Foreign and European Affairs for the responsibilities of the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia. Congratulations.
