ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4755	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. According to the Croatian Parliament, the government is proposing a law establishing a law that would set up an Energy Sector Business Monitoring Centre, as well as accompanying investments. One really short representation of this law, that is, the basic message of this law. Energy, as we know, is if nothing else today's word for every country in the world, and so for the Republic of Croatia and what is currently taking place parallel to the government's meeting is also a picture of the map of investments or the plan of investments of the Government of Croatia in the coming period where one of the most important roles, i.e. the greatest responsibility, but also the greatest investment potential, is recognised in Croatia right through the energy sector. In this sense, what the Government is parallel to the investment map, as I said the processes are really simultaneously taking place on both sides of Mark's market, is that through the strategic potential that Croatia has in the energy sector is recognised and that greater space for investment potential in the energy sector. And in this sense, the message of this law is the establishment of a centre that would in some way be a synergy of the profession, knowledge, coordination, but also the role of owners in the energy sector, especially when it comes to public companies or companies in the majority or part of the ownership of the Republic of Croatia in this segment. When I say synergy or shelter, the acquisition of the interests of the owners with the country's interest, with the interest of the Republic of Croatia in the energy sector, the interest of citizens, but also the maximum synergy with the units of local self-government where the centre and the work of the centre would reflect the work, interests, potential of the Republic of Croatia through the natural ownership structure and give significant and necessary professional assistance, but also coordination in defining what is actually energy not only potential but also the interests of the Republic of Croatia. We believe that forming a centre as a point of view and knowledge and the profession of coordination, but also reflecting the interests of owners in the energy sector, well-managed investment projects, supervision of investment projects, is what can only give us added value in efforts to overcome the current economic situation through a new impetuous investment in the energy sector so that we are ready to join the EU, the upcoming liberalisation of the electricity sector as well as other newspapers in the EU acquis to which we will naturally have to react and adequately put ourselves in our positions as a full member of the EU. Therefore, even before joining the EU, this centre with appropriate recommendations and monitoring of all novels at EU level will be crucial in considering how to improve or make further investments in the energy sector. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4756	Thank you very much. Do the work-body reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. First we discuss clubs. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourist-Stranke Work Mr. Representative Branko Vukšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4757	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. In the assessment of the state of business of the energy sector, investment has been made a model diagnosis. Yes, investments in companies owned by the Republic of Croatia were without systematic control of the government, and therefore these investments were often inefficient, over-inflated, invaluable, but also criminal. But this does not mean that they were not controlled, they were controlled by informal power centers from Mark’s square and from some other squares. True, the government did not clearly publish the objectives of its ownership, but therefore the goals of Croatian citizens were met by the powerful. In order to bring investment and companies into some order, the new government has come up with European guidelines, and on the basis of the practices of some European countries, it proposes to set up a centre for monitoring the business of the energy sector and investment, because my God, everything that comes from the EU and Europe must be good, except for order, except for efficiency. Not only has the Government abolished tenders for members of the Supervisory Board and re-sets them by political, party criteria, not only have the supervised supervisory boards set up strictly controlled administrations also composed of verified, similar personnel, but from now on I do not doubt similar supervisory committees and similar administrations, more specifically to monitor, direct what is appropriate in the law of the task described, the exact description of the work center, the Monitoring Centre. And that tracking center will be monitored again. By whom, by the Minister of Finance and the First Deputy Prime Minister who make up another Supervisory Board. Supervisor's supervisor. Complicated? Not really. Who's gonna put you up for supervisors? Government. But isn't the government already setting up supervisors on boards? He's setting it up. But those supervisors that the government calls escorts as if they were some secret detectives, they're not just mere supervisors. They propose to the government an investment strategy in the energy sector. They will lead and coordinate investment projects and, watch out now, units of local self-government and regional self-government bodies. It'll be believed to be a real superman, a lot of experts who know everything. I guess there's gonna be some new Tesla, some new Edison, some new Bell. So where have you been hiding them? Or a more detailed question as to why you don't put these superhumans and superintendents on boards and administrations, and then no one should follow them, as the centre will now follow, turns out by this proposal to committees and administrations straying party members. That's how the former head of the chair factory will be steering HEP. If the centre is going to propose a strategy, what will the government do? What will the ministers do? What will employees in government cabinets do? Why on earth should municipalities be joined with cities, cities with ministries? Are they separated by a Chinese wall? Are they in a fight? If they are, then instead of escorts, we need peacemakers. Banovo Jaruga or my Nedelisce with the ministry will connect Cacic Linic's centre. Four people without professional services are for a million kunas to be allocated to a new body you can't hire a team, 500 units of local self-government will be put to sleep with the central government. It turns out that the people who elected Finance Minister Linic and first Deputy Prime Minister Cacic in the supervisory boards and the Prime Minister Milanovic are neither capable nor reliable. But I will be taught by someone in power if in a similar way some European countries function, why not Croatia? Because we don't need to look at everything in a bureaucratized Europe whose most countries are much richer and can possibly afford super bodies that don't work without large teams of experts. If the current system is to be fixed, the system should be changed in this inefficient and bulky apparatus, not upgraded with new parathillas. Yes, the government is building a parallel control and strategic system at this center. It will be, I have no doubt about Friday's intention of a legitimate superman system. This new parasystem, it says in the bill instead of the owner, i.e. Governments understand. And why wouldn't the government understand? Politics as a call, excuse me. This smells like a clean division of prey that Max Weber spoke clearly at a lecture entitled "Policy as an Call" but 92 years ago. And that's when the division of the political spoils caused both suspicion and fear. In us almost a century after Weber's famous speech to the German students, nothing changed. This steaming body reminds us of the once-in-a-lifetime body of the Central Committee which was both above the Parliament and above the government and, of course, above the party itself. Due to all the above, the Croatian Labour Club will not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4758	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, at least it doesn't say here, but I read it, Mr. Representative Branko Bacic. You put an xic there. I'm just kidding. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4759	I would like to thank Mr. President, the esteemed deputy with an associate, respected colleague and colleague. The proposal for a law on the Energy Sector and Investment Monitoring Centre proposes the creation of a new state government body with the aim of monitoring business, energy sector operations, monitoring the intensity and quality of investments in the energy sector, although through the law itself and through the provisions of the law, it can be read how the competence and powers of this centre extend to investments. For example, in infrastructure or in other activities. In the Croatian Democratic Community club, we can understand the government's need to set up a new body that should contribute to better quality monitoring of energy sector work, i.e. the state-owned enterprises, in the energy sector. We can understand the need to align all those investments that will take place in the next years, in the energy sector. But we believe that before that, a detailed review of the existing authorities of the state administration that are in charge of the energy sector that they have already set up by earlier legislation, and which state bodies, institutions, are supposed to be seducing, should monitor investments in the energy sector. Namely, one annual check-up through the existence of existing state administration bodies points to doubts about the need for the establishment of this centre. According to the current regulation of the Ministry of Economy, there is, at the moment, an Energy Administration which has almost the same powers as this Committee in its business area. In this Regulation, it is said that the Energy Administration is planning and proposing an energy strategy for energy development, measures to implement it, monitor and analyse policy and strategy implementation, coordinate energy management jobs, analyse and assess energy sector development plans. So, almost identical work that should be done at the future centre if it is established by the basis of this Law with already already taking place in the Resolute Ministry of Economy under the Energy Authority. The second body that the Government intends to set up, for which the body has not yet received the law on its establishment, is an energy efficiency agency and renewable energy sources which it intends to establish and organise within the framework of the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction. If you carefully read the budget of the Republic of Croatia, then at the position of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, there are already certain funds of 2 million and 200 thousand kuna for 2012, which should enable the future energy efficiency agency and renewable energy sources to work. We at the Croatian Democratic Community Club are not clear how today we have a bill on the establishment of the Energy Sector and Investment Monitoring Centre for which a centre in the state budget that has not yet been adopted for its work is not planned, and at the same time there are already provided and planned funds in the positions of the state budget, if the state budget is in the form proposed and adopted. Therefore, funds will be provided for an agency that should have approximately a similar job, similar powers, similar to those of the centre, but for this agency, funds have already been planned in the state budget. So we at the Croatian Democratic Community club wonders that today we are discussing a future state body for which the funds in the state budget are not secured, and we are not discussing an agency that will have almost identical authority, for which already the funds amounting to 2 million and 200 thousand kuna are secured and only for 2012. While, for example, in 2013 and fourteenth positions for that same agency, funds are not provided. Furthermore, what we also believe is that it is not well done, that the Government has not seen all that it should have seen when it proposed to the Assembly the adoption of this law is also the fact that this future Agency, which will be established within the framework of the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction, should be doing almost identical work which is already being carried out by the Energy Efficiency and Environmental Protection Fund. In addition, the existing fund is established and plans to establish two other bodies that should carry out almost similar tasks as the Environment and Energy Efficiency Fund. It seems to me that before this bill came to the debate in the Croatian Parliament, the future status of the Energy Efficiency and Environment Fund was to be determined by the work of the future Energy Sector Monitoring Centre, the future status, the authority of the Energy Efficiency Agency, which is planned to be established in the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction, should have been proposed before this Parliament. Furthermore, the government also established the Energy Institute of the Croatian Fire. It is also a scientific body that covers, in its own district, the activity for which this centre is intended to be established. Also, as we know, there is another state body that cares and cares about state property, which is the Asset Management Agency. Wasn't there a better solution for this centre to become part or sector within the State Property Agency, and from the positions of that agency, these jobs could have been done, not to establish a new body that would indeed additionally burden the costs of the state budget at the time of the savings, at the time when all the positions of the state budget needed savings? It was possible for these transactions to be infiltrated or to be left to the existing authorities of the state administration, rather than to open new state bodies, set up and generate costs for the state budget. So what we will not support in the HDZ Club is the proposal of this law, but if the Government insists on its adoption, then we will also propose an amendment to an article establishing the number of members of the Supervisory Board. In fact, at the HDZ Club, it is unacceptable for us to be an even number of members of the Supervisory Board and thus, in practice, not to allow the equality of the members when deciding on certain agenda points, which will be held at the meetings of the Supervisory Board, so we at the HDZ Club propose to expand the number of members of the Supervisory Board in such a way that the members of the Supervisory Board become also the minister responsible for environmental and nature protection, as it is precisely that in part of this ministry are the tasks that should be carried out by this centre. In fact, as you know, in the process of negotiations, we have accepted the obligation to reduce the share of renewable energy in gross electricity consumption to 20% by 2020. As renewable energy sources are now largely being monitored and conducted through the Ministry of Environment and Nature, it would be good for the Minister of Environment and Nature to be a member of the Monitoring Committee of this Centre, which could then clearly enable equality in the decision of individual members of the Supervisory Board, rather than for each minister to be a member of a higher level of the Supervisory Board of this Centre. What we would also like to point out is that, in addition to the appointment of the Supervisory Boards, we need to give this centre jobs that are the powers of the Supervisory Board under the Company Act. When we received a proposal from the Government to amend the Law on Civil Service Officers, which legally amended the obligation for members of the Supervisory Board to be named by a tender from the Government, we heard that this was done in order to strengthen the responsibility of the Minister for the work of a particular public undertaking in the sector under its jurisdiction. Therefore, it was respected by previous solutions that certain ministers, by appointing members of the supervisory boards, are virtually freed from potential responsibilities for the poor situation in the sector and for the poor situation in the public undertaking and that, in practice, through the direct appointment of members of the supervisory boards, the position of ministers and their responsibility for the work and operation of a particular public undertaking will be strengthened. I must say that in this way, the practical formation of another body that should be connected, the relationship between the Minister and the Supervisory Committees and the administration of certain public enterprises is clearly talked about trying to remove the responsibility of a particular minister, in this case the Minister of Economy, in the case of the situation in the energy sector in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, for all of these reasons, we are assessing that it is not necessary to form an Investment Monitoring Centre and to monitor the business of the energy sector in the Republic of Croatia. For this, there are already bodies within the Ministry of Economy and there are already state institutions that can do the job. This is considered a cost that is not necessary, which will not contribute to faster realisation of investments in Croatia, and therefore the HDZ club cannot support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4760	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, the stand will be presented by respected representative Igor Radinovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4761	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague, allow me to state the SDP Club's views. So the Government of the Republic of Croatia has set as its primary goal the launch of the economy as the only possible tool to get out of the long-term crisis. The development of the energy sector is a strategic interest and contitio sine qua non development of efficient and rational use of energy. The issues of production, use, transport and trade in energy and energy in the broadest sense are also crucial issues in international policy. Unfortunately, the way in which we in the Republic of Croatia at all levels from the state through local communities and to individuals with honorary exceptions could be commonly referred to as wasteful poverty. In fact, Croatia is not abundant in energy sources, and we often spend energy as if it is an unlimited resource. The energy efficiency of our public buildings, but also the largest number of residential and economic buildings at the bottom is European scales. The development of entrepreneurship in the energy sector is therefore one of the most important parts of the Kukuriku Coalition programme, with full application and application of environmental protection and energy production and use. As an accelerant of these processes, the Government is proposing today to set up a monitoring centre for the energy sector and investment. This bill has already caused a lot of public interest as part of government procedures, it has also experienced some positive changes in relation to the original proposal, and some criticism has been addressed during the debate, and there will likely be more. But as I said on the Committee on Economy, it is not crucial whether the cat is black or white, it is important to hunt mice. A good part of my predecessor's discussion was about the optimal organisational structure and overlapping of jobs and... the centres and some other bodies, but the organisational structure will agree with me for managing state resources and building and the structure of the law and responsibility of the executive authority. Therefore, the quality of this law will tomorrow be measured by the efficiency of the work of this centre. Commercial companies in the energy sector which will coordinate this centre through transactions precisely defined in Article 6 of this Law represent a significant part of gross employment and market capitalisation products. The State must therefore act as an informed and active owner and establish a clear and consistent ownership policy for future governance in the companies concerned is essential to ensure their positive contribution, overall economic efficiency and competitiveness. This law therefore seeks to enable quality business management and improvement of investment activity for which clear objectives are necessary to enable supervisory committees to carry out their supervisory functions, and to leave operational management with clear guidelines to companies. We expect that the application of this law will increase the financial efficiency and transparency of business in the energy sector's companies to speed up the decision-making process, as well as the appropriate and targeted direction of financial resources in a way that ensures the largest and long-term economic return and stable growth, and to enable centralised and systematic monitoring of investments in the Republic of Croatia to take place with a view to synergistic effects. In the SDP club, we expect a special focus of this centre on renewable energy sources, as we believe that renewable energy sources provide great opportunities for Croatia's economic recovery. In realising renewables projects, we also see the opportunity of the domestic industry to more activate and participate significantly greater than in the realization of traditional electricity projects. In addition to environmental benefits and the rise in energy self-sufficiency, renewable sources have great economic potential precisely because of this potential engagement of the domestic knowledge industry technology, but also the high social potential, as it leads to the employment of a larger number of people. Finally, not least, of course, this law was drawn up on the basis of positive experiences from other countries such as Finland, Austria, Slovenia and with much respect for OECD guidelines for corporate governance in state-owned companies. Therefore, the SDP club will support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4762	Thank you very much. For the Croatian People's Party Club in the Croatian Parliament, respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4763	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Deputy economy minister, expert associates, colleagues and colleagues. I can speak freely on behalf of the HNS club and, referring to Mr Radenovic, who spoke on behalf of the SDP, the government of the Republic of Croatia has identified clear priorities and goals of its work. Economic growth, fiscal responsibility and consolidation and social sensitivity. Measures and laws that are on the agenda and these sessions are exclusively in that function and one of the instruments of economic growth is the proposed law in question. The Tax Administration Act, which we have adopted, made it clear that one of the reasons for adoption is, of course, related to fiscal consolidation, and overlapping in the responsibilities of the service, in ensuring rationalisation of the performance of the business, more efficient performance of the business in the broad part of the scope of the action of the burden on taxpayers, which, because of the non-compliance of the rules, cannot function by removing all irregularities, access to data, coordination, respect for deadlines, urgency, etc. The Energy Sector Business Monitoring Centre also plays a very similar role and function not in fiscal but in economic growth, particularly with an emphasis on energy capital investments. It is also the harmonisation and control of energy sector policy, registration of all investments. Yes, this government wants to have an insight into absolutely everything that's going on under her authority, and there's also going to be opportunities then for this High House as well as for the general public. In the documents, the audit reports that we will have in this House will clearly have how it has been done so far, how ineffective it has been for both the subject and the registration of what property is, and thus doing business within the public sector. That is why control, harmonisation in investment matters are extremely important, especially when it comes to costs and efficiency. Energy is a key sector in the economy, especially at the moment, especially in this situation of opening capital investments in which the state must be a driver. And because energy is also one of the largest importers and producers of deficits in the Republic of Croatia. Energy potentials can be freely said are immeasurable, as Croatia is the 8th importer in the world of electricity at relative amounts. We are even the world's 2nd importer of electricity by main residents in absolute amounts. In such conditions for the reduction of the deficit, the production of a substitution of imports should be done in order to create conditions for the reduction of electricity imports, in order for the product to be produced, in order to be a substitution of imports with exports. By investing in the energy sector, this government also ensures the launch and development of other sectors of the economy. Since the energy sector is synergyally linked to other sectors in Croatia. Therefore, this synergy should be monitored, harmonised, addressed and controlled in order to achieve first order efficiency because at this time the speed of action efficiency is crucial for the growth of the economy. The HNS Club will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4764	Thank you, too. For the club IDS, respected representative Damir Cain. Here you go, fellow Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4765	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the government's representatives, the distinguished gentlemen of the council. Article 4 of this Proposal for a Law on the Energy Sector Monitoring Centre defines the very concept of an energy system. Article 4 here states that within the meaning of this law, the concept of the energy sector has the meaning of companies in which the Republic of Croatia has those shares and which carry out the following activities. First, research, exploitation of oil and gas, production of oil derivatives and trade in oil derivatives and natural gas. Then there is transport of oil to pipelines, transport of oil derivatives and other forms of transport, storage of oil, oil derivatives, transport, storage of gas, LNG terminals, production, transmission, distribution of electricity supply, management of the electricity system, organisation of the electricity market, etc., renewable energy sources and not to quote all the way to the end. However, we may need to read it this way. The energy center that is formed will follow the INA, will be monitored by JANAF, will be monitored by gas warehouses, distribution, means power lines, trafostations. Once worded, it's HEP, heat, etc. The centre means it has an impact on systems whose annual income in the Republic of Croatia is more than 50 billion kuna and which currently employs at least 50,000 people. Something's privatized, something's on the right track, under quotes, something good to privatize, and something for a living head shouldn't be privatized. First of all, I think of Croatia's electricity industry. It was not clear to privatise the INA in 2003 or 2007, but today it is no longer back and the only thing we can follow with interest is this judicial epilogue to the former prime minister. Article 4 of this proposal also speaks of investments. So where the state owns it, where the state is co-owner, it conducts investments through the center. So now we know exactly who will be responsible or co-responsible for the functioning of this system. To begin the operation of this centre, one million kuna should be provided in the state budget. One million kuna is nothing, that can't be enough. As explained on page 1 of this proposal, the law states that over the course of the period, I quote, the investments that took place in these companies or which were led by them and which were led by the authorities of the state administration were often without systematic control and monitoring of the Government of the Republic of Croatia as having ownership powers. This resulted in some investments being ineffective, uncoordinated, invaluable, and also questionable in relation to the achievement of the general objectives and development strategy. I have the impression that that sentence was planted by the people who used to work in those systems. The current government itself would hardly stand behind a sentence like this. So the investments were ruling controls, and now we see that when I return to that court, the people of the former government are again responding, which will say that the people of the former ruling structure had an impact on the "functioning" of the energy system in the Republic of Croatia. The centre has a board of directors, has a supervisory board consisting of two ministers, a minister of economy and a finance minister. Would it perhaps be better if that centre were in the Ministry of Economy, not some "separated" agency that would almost dare to say untouchable. What I stand for, which is why I took part in this debate, is that at least once a year, the centre submits reports to the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia, not only to the Government or to the color of the competent minister. As far as Article 11 is concerned, we are talking about the financing of the centre. The Centre should be financed from the remuneration for the preparation and conduct of the investments referred to in Article 4 of this Act under the agreement of the Centre and the entities which are the holders of the investment. Does this mean that these investments could be accumulated, does this mean indirectly that some new parafiscal imposition is introduced and other funds are said to be achieved from the performance of their activities. It would be just as good if we could get as soon as possible the announcements that are the original priority projects of the centre. What the citizens of Istria are most interested in is the fate of the thermopower plant Plomin 3, I suppose, on coal. Whether it's going or not. If so, let's ask the Labinians what they think about it so they don't repeat the Rockwool case. I'm sure that investment has a lot of positive, people would get a job. That investment would last 5.6 years, spinning down around 800m euros, technologically it would be a leap for Labinstein. With 1,000 people working on facilities through synergy, it counts somewhere on 2,000 people who would be directly and indirectly engaged in the project. They'd come to their probably small companies in the long run for decades, but the risk is ecology. It is certain that we need an investment, it is certain that they are welcome ino investors. Where Plomin 2 is already present, RWE, one of the leading energy multinationals not in Germany but in the world. MOL's in INA, though I don't call it a good investment or a good investor. I couldn't believe how the CEO of MOL offered 2003 to buy INA. The man was swimming, under the shower he remembered the 505 with the line, and it was an indicative offer for a company that could buy MOL and OMV together in the '90s, and then in 2007, in fact sealed the fate of the INA as prey. Clearly, such a privatisation was decided not by citizens but by politics. There was no reason to sell INA. We'll see what other privatisations will bring. It is clear that investment needs to be stimulated, big state systems need to be free of fear. Today, almost no one in these systems is investing in investigations that are being conducted. It's all blocked. If that body breaks down, I'd say that fear, if investment starts and someone takes responsibility for the future, among other things, for that energy sector, everything will be ok. But I repeat, in the center's hands, one enormous power is concentrated, and the minimum would be if the Parliament were to be, I'd say at least once a year familiar with capital investments and the activities of the center itself. I don't think such an amendment would burden me to say the spirit of this law. However, he would have made it far and more credible.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4766	Thank you very much. The next club is the HDSSB club and respected representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4767	Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister. Well, here's this proposal for a law on the establishment of an energy sector and investment monitoring centre. We see in the reasons cited for establishing, inter alia, a disagreement between the objectives of economic policy and the need for profitable business, the need to protect state property, to focus on effective exercise of ownership rights. It is alleged that so far it has been a proposer, that the investment strategy has so far been insufficient, and that the authorities of the state administration have been too slow to make decisions, and therefore the establishment of this centre is proposed. As one state body, the centre would establish overall control over all companies, i.e. the entire energy sector of the Republic of Croatia. So, all those where the Republic of Croatia has any ownership stake. It's oil from research to exploitation, it's gas from research, transport to exploitation including LNG terminals and oil pipelines. It's electricity from production through distribution to consumption. It's the heat sector entirely. These are renewable energy sources and these are all forms of energy transport. It also says that the investments that this centre would in the bill, therefore, indicate that the investments that this centre would cover would include the investment of the public sector, i.e. the Republic of Croatia over, would be worth more than 10 million kuna. All public-private partnerships projects regardless of the time, but would not only include investment of a public private partnership in the area of infrastructure. In particular, that part of the investment shall be set aside in order not to fall under the responsibility of the centre. What's this, what's this center's business? Anything about energy. So he develops an energy business strategy, develops investment proposals, prepares tenders, selects a strategic partner, contracts investments, realises strategic projects, coordinates projects, establish co-operation with international institutions. In his work corresponds to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. As Mr Cain said, it is not envisaged that it corresponds in any way to the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia which we do not think is good, that such an institution would, if it were established in any way, at least, be polite to submit a report once a year to the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. The management of the centre itself is set up so that it has a board president who's worth two because he has two votes and three other board members. It means four members of the board, but where the president's worth two. We don't see any reason why the administration of this center is thus formed? Why is he not a three-member or a five-member, but a four-member, and the president is worth two. It is proposed by the minister responsible for the economy. So we know who the minister is in charge of the economy. In terms of appointing members of the Management Board, the last item in terms of being a member is that, as a natural person, it does not deal with the business of a company which is a meaningful provision. So there would be no possibility of a potential conflict of interest. In this case, it would be asked why such a provision was not applied and in the event of the establishment of the HANFA Governance Council, where we voted in favour of the majority of votes four people who could not enter the HANFA Administrative Council under such a provision because they would find themselves in a potential conflict of interest. So at least there's an embedded provision here to rule out those who might be in a potential conflict of interest. When it comes to the Supervisory Board, the Supervisory Board is written, so it consists of two members – the first Deputy Prime Minister of Mr. Cacic and the Minister of Finance, Mr. Linic. There are two members who will agree and agree. And if they can't agree, then the deciding voice will have Mr. Chacic. So that's roughly what it says. I mean, this is how the Board of Supervisors' composition is practically mocking democracy, and making fun of those of us who are now discussing it. As for Mr Cain's funding, he almost naively complained that only one million kuna funds were provided for in the budget to finance the centre. But this centre will be financed in the first place, these are only funds likely for administrative costs of establishment. However, it will actually be financed from the compensation for preparing and conducting investments, because it will have under control all investments and will be able to introduce the compensation as it wishes and to further burden any investment as much as necessary for the needs of that centre as easily. And that's how much every investor will have to pay for it. So, I am afraid that this centre will, in fact, add to its costs and its needs, also burden any investment, and will also be able to be financed by additional borrowing through the European Union funds and programmes and through donations, loans, international aid funds. What about this elaborate center? So, this law establishes and builds a new state mastodon. After various offices, state offices, agencies, state commissions, councils, administrations, everything we've set up, there's another centre coming now. This mastodon parastate or state mastodon that will be called the Energy Sector Monitoring Centre is an investment simultaneously both strategic and executive and supervisory and enforcement body. The centre therefore has its own strategic and thinks and negotiations and contracts and implements investment in the entire energy sector of the Republic of Croatia. And in no way corresponds to the Croatian Parliament. And in no form but indirectly through the Government that is responsible. This and this law was written according to the wishes, ideas and ideas of Mr. Cacic's first Deputy Prime Minister, the law that Mr. Cacic wrote for himself. In this regard, forgetting that the state is not a company, especially no one's private company, and that Croatian oil, gas, electricity, water, air, all energy is nobody's private property, and they can't become anyone's. That it's a Croatian national treasure. And that winning the election does not mean dividing the prey, but taking responsibility for managing some common good, Croatian national goods over a certain period of time. In particular, over a period of 4 years. Therefore, such a law written in the language of daily politics, engaged practically to the attitude of the coalition partners in the government, is totally unacceptable to us and not that we are against this law but are seeking its withdrawal from the procedure. And a message to colleagues from the ruling coalition if you want to lose the election in four years with these laws, you will surely lose them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4768	Thank you very much. We have exhausted the list of participants for discussion by clubs in the Croatian Parliament. We're moving on to a ten-minute hearing. The first one came from a respected representative, Nada Turina-Djuric. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4769	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister, Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So here I am in the name, I would say in HNS, of course we support the adoption of this law and after these very difficult days when we discussed the budget and the laws, the tax laws package, where we had to force the situation financially in Croatia and the economic situation to make some very difficult decisions in order to preserve the budget and so that the overall functioning of the state and the system could be ensured in 2012 and where there was, of course, very much controversy and discussion about who to give more or less, i.e. provide more or less resources here we finally have one law which is what says one light at the end of the tunnel. Where, perhaps, by this law and by taking over the government's responsibility in setting up such a Investment Centre, we will make some shifts that in some coming years, we will be able to discuss perhaps some surpluses and discuss and discuss who will be able to make more funds available through the budget because the overall economic situation will improve. What is the point, and what is the goal? Well, we're all aware of the fact that exactly the energy sector in the Republic of Croatia is somewhere above 40 billion kuna, which is a waste to the energy sector in the Republic of Croatia. And it is not possible for this important sector for the Republic of Croatia to be let go, as it has often been and there has been a case of food in the past, without systematic control, without supervision, without monitoring by the owners, which is the Republic of Croatia’s Government directly in charge. Often, the government has just been put into a passive observer situation when it comes to investment in this system, and often it has been used by the government and the resolution ministries, i.e. ministers, in a way, to escape political responsibility, both business and political responsibilities, and the same government and resolution ministers for inefficiency, for slowness, for the abuse of the powers of certain administrative supervisory structures within the system when it comes to investment. Because it's always easy to pass on that responsibility to someone who, of course, has no political responsibility, so it's lost somewhere in usually only media inscriptions, and it's never named, or it's not said who's really responsible that some investment isn't or is done as it is set up. At this point, we at the HNS believe that the only alternative to the sinking of the Croatian economy is to work intensively on investment projects. At attracting fresh money in projects in Croatia, we think it is important to name it directly by name and by last name a team of people who will lead it all together. Finally, it was a promise to the Kukurik coalition to the citizens who supported us in these elections that we would launch a strong investment cycle where, of course, the government will be the leading factor at this point. What is also important at any time should this centre know at least what a particular investment project is in, above all in energy, but also all other investment projects, but of course also be responsible for handling if those in charge of project implementation will not, of course, implement this centre, but will certainly monitor those in charge of the direct execution of investments and the realisation of investment projects if they have not made a maximum effort to realise these investments. Of course there's a time factor, at this point an extremely important factor and surely the center on it will have the most work to do. So this takes direct responsibility for Croatia's economic future. We at the HNS consider this to be an extremely important decision and an extremely important law that gives us a chance to develop. Most of us here advocates believe that she was in a position to be some kind of investor regardless of whether we worked in local self-government or we were entrepreneurs ourselves, and we know very well what it means to face all the problems in the launch without talking about the realisation of a particular investment and how much it is in the system of factors that have often blocked investment that should have been realized. Of course, this centre in its supervision will also have that function, that it speeds up, of course, the investments in all sectors especially in this energy sector. So we've spent a lot of three days here, or invested in a budget debate, and we've discussed who more than who, whether in agriculture or something else. It is quite understandable that everyone defended the interests of his political and economic programme in the context of his party colors. But the fact is that at the moment we had one basket of bread and we could give someone more from that basket to someone, but we could finally share only one basket of bread. And of course they're not all full out of one basket. This is a law that may give us a chance to quickly fill a new basket of bread from which we will all be fed first, and then perhaps have an extra around which it would be very pleasant and nice to discuss to whom to share it through the state budget. What I also think will ultimately be the subject of this centre's work is that it actually makes the Republic of Croatia a friendly environment for investment. She's not at this point, we all know very well, and of course what we all hate most about especially the investors who come to us from outside, but also from domestic investors, that's, of course, the speed, efficiency of the system for even the most ordinary things, such as the release of certain permits, papers and everything else. I think the centre will be able to do that, and this law has been overlooked to speed things up and not to stop investment at some lower levels. As regards the financing of the centre in the bill itself, it is also said that the centre will also apply to EU funds and I hope that the centre will succeed and that the budget costs in terms of the functioning of the centre itself will be lower. Here, the HNS Club welcomes the adoption of this law and if I don't speak for the club, but I'm saying that all of us in the HNS will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4770	Thank you very much. At your presentation, we have a replica of the respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4771	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague said that when coming to power, many difficult decisions had to be made. It will certainly need to make even more difficult decisions, perhaps even harder decisions than those made so far. But I don't understand what the context of this decision is, and this law falls under. I mean, this isn't a tough decision, this is an unnecessary decision. This isn't the light at the end of the tunnel, if you think something's bright, it's that proverbial locomotive that's going to meet. This is not the light at the end of the tunnel, because this law establishes a single parallel system of government. How the centre will unblock and who will be unblocked in great efforts to boost energy initiatives and why the government cannot do it, why can't the agency do it, why now the centre. Why does it take a center to make the government work? Only because someone takes the reins into their own hands, rounds their part of the war prey, covers it with a hat and says, "Now we'll do as I say." Unfortunately, the first law passed here in the House concerned the election of the head of local self-government. It wasn't a confectionary law, it was custom-made. This one was also done according to measure and that's what's wrong, that's what this government will put where the first Deputy Prime Minister said, the first day after they got the election when they asked him about the division of the war prey, he said, so we're not like them. Oh, they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4772	Thank you very much. Next for a debate of 10 minutes, respected representative Damir Rilje. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4773	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here I have also participated in the work of the Committee on Economy and here I will only have a few words or a few sentences which here express my opinion and I think it will be less than 10 minutes. So the Final Proposal of the Law on the Energy Sector Monitoring Centre aims to introduce order. In my understanding, the exercise of the authority of the state, and in order to achieve monitoring and supervision of companies that are in the energy sector. Could this have been done through the Ministry or not, that's a different story. But the fact is that all energy companies are trying in some way to lead advisoryly and advisoryly. It means that this law regulates the influence of the state on its infrastructure companies in activities related to the exploration, exploitation of oil, gas, production, wood derivatives,... transport, storage and transport of gas,... terminal, production, transmission, distribution, supply of electricity and production of equipment for the production, transmission, distribution of electricity, distribution and production of heat and renewable energy sources and others. The intention of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to ensure the functionality of these activities as public companies that implement it is an expression of the desire to ensure efficiency in the use of energy, storage, transport, exploitation, distribution or in general in the energy strategy. Of course, energy is an area that we must make a turn in Croatia. We can't say that everything's been done so far and there's nothing to do about it. That's where we have to make the moves. We all know that. But whoever wants the analysis is available to everyone. Of course, some companies that will be in the middle of the center worked well, but some of them don't. I'm not sure we can say that the energy sector's functioning system was sufficiently functional and investment-optimal. A requirement for a full step in the energy sector is the need to connect functions and investments in energy as a potential for economic resources. So our economy needs it. A couple of opinions I'd like to point out here. This body with public powers to connect or monitor and coordinate investment cycles and investment procedures of companies in the energy system. I hope and believe that the impact on companies that should be competent to fulfil their functions in terms of increasing efficiency and efficiency. I did not understand the further financing of the centre except for the basic investment, and I am also interested in the possible overlapping of advisory decision-making services in companies which are subject to supervision of this centre in investment procedures and employees in the centre. The future effectiveness of this centre, i.e. the effect that will produce on energy companies and investment efficiency, rather than the decision-making system, is essential, because it is closely linked and responsible. It is certainly important to form the centre and its composition and bodies, but as far as I understand it, the founder remains and the supervisory boards in energy companies remain the same and their responsibility remains the same and that is the state or owner. I agree that, for the sake of the importance of this sector, it would be very important for the Croatian Parliament to have a more frequent impact and to prescribe it, in the functioning of the centre and the movement of its business, or the impact on energy efficiency, because this is about the management of fundamental national resources. I support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4774	Thank you very much. The next representative to sign up for a ten-minute hearing is a respected representative of Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4775	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the government's decision to set up a Energy and Investment Monitoring Centre and the centre will have its board of directors headed by two ministers. The Management Board will adopt the statutes as it writes here, establish a proposal for a strategy, investment in the energy sector, adopt rules on investment monitoring, etc., etc. And now imagine, if I were to go back a little bit, and then I'd say something, and what I think about this, but imagine that this is a law proposed by the former government that would be attacks on the former government, and that it's non-transparent, and that the board of directors can establish a proposal for an investment strategy in the energy sector, so that it can make its own rules, etc., etc. But these are... And I'm not gonna talk about it right now, I just wanted to remind you that sometimes double standards apply. [[You don't understand.]] I think that the idea itself is not bad, and I think that in Croatia it needs all the brains and technical and legal and financial, and there is not much about investment and investment implementation, collected in one place, and that mind implements investment. I think it's good and it's not bad because you don't have hundreds of lawyers right now. who are very professional in carrying out large investment, etc. or engineers, etc. Therefore, the idea is not bad, but I would have these few questions and some proposal regarding this law. For example. The proposal for this law does not make it clear how to implement it through the centre because the state did not, at least as far as I read it and realized it did not transfer ownership rights. Secondly, the question arises how to formally implement what was intended to be achieved through centralised other than possibly some kind of political influence. Second question, the Company Act. He has prescribed procedures that must be carried out by companies in his business, but it is not clear through this law in order for the centre to commit to this behaviour. There's already been a speech here, but it's good now, so why the ministry's resorient, because these jobs are exactly what the ministry should be doing, but well, we said the idea was to get it all together in one of those centers and then he's running it all together. Now what I would say is, I think I should really make the four-year plans of this monitoring centre or the annual plans to adopt the government. I think that would be one minimum I won't say transparency because these words we've listened to in recent years, but I think it would be minimum if some annual plan or four-year investment plan that says here is being arranged, or which, according to this proposal, brings the board of directors, to bless it by the Government. I don't think there's any difficulty, I think. And now the question is whether or not it should be, there was a suggestion here that once a year I don't know when the Parliament reported it, etc. One more thing, it would be good in this law, and it is not defined which companies are for which this centre will conduct investments because it is not mentioned here, it is said a little vaguely that only the energy sector or these are total investments. Finally, it might not be bad if this centre were to be formed as a company, to pass accreditation for the use of EU funds and thus become an implementing body for end-users and for European funds. Here's what I'm thinking if these few things were put in there so that this kind of proposal, as far as I'm concerned, would be acceptable, no matter what I said at first, and I'm not going back because it's been a while, that one of these proposals would have come out and that the former government proposed it had experienced any kind of criticism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4776	Thank you very much. First notice. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following Article 2 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament at 11 o'clock and 35 minutes have expired time to report a debate of 10 minutes. The following has been signed up for discussion by the Đuro Popiac, the Đuro Popiac. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4777	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister, colleague. Certainly the energy sector of the Republic of Croatia is one of the most significant sectors of the economy. It seems to me that together in itself, but also with the whole belonging industry that is relying on the energy sector contributes to Croatia's GDP must be over 20% and therefore we appreciate the government's efforts to rightly focus on the sector by trying to strengthen investment management capacities, which is understandable. I would like to remind you that the investments in the public sector in the last year were generally more than 10 billion kuna. That's why I don't understand how this government went under those plans. So we heard that this year's investment in the public sector is projected to be around 8 billion kuna. But, of course, it's your problem, but tomorrow it'll be ours. In these 10 billion kunas, exactly the energy sector has participated with more than 5 billion kunas. Let me remind you, PLINACRO himself, therefore, and his role is defined by law. It is clear from which sources are funded and why it is formed. So, to build a high pressure gas infrastructure for Croatia's gasification. It's more or less almost done. So, from the east to Istria and they end the trail either they're on a plan or they're gonna end up. I believe he will also go to Dalmatia. Let me remind you that in the last year, an interconnector was completed towards Hungary which made it possible for a gas interconnector, so which allowed this cold impact Croatia to be relatively painless, in fact completely painless and bridging. So I don't see in essence what and what role this centre will play on this very energy company. JANAF is a trading company, a stock company. JANAF is one of the largest investors and has been in the field of storage and transport of oil and oil derivatives so far. I think there's over 2 billion kuna in investment now. JANAF is otherwise staffed by absolute expertise, at least until now. And I think that these investments that are under way today are one of the important and strategic investments that Croatia will place in the very centre of oil and oil and oil trade. To remind you, there is a large storage space in Sisak and Krk. JANAF has, as well as other companies, companies in public, owned by a state or partly owned by a state, has its own bodies, has a congregation, has a supervisory board, has administration. And they have some kind of obligation and legally defined roles. We know exactly what the congregation is doing, what the board of directors are doing, what the administrations are doing. It's gonna be hard to reconcile the role of this center. She's very extensive here, listed here by the legal obligation of the bodies that have companies. It would be more normal and acceptable to me and therefore I would always vote, and therefore I would argue that the role of the Ministry of Economy itself would be strengthened through the strengthening of those parts of the energy sector covered by the Ministry of Economy, possibly, and perhaps even that Croatia would benefit greatly from the formation of the Ministry and Energy itself, which would manage the Synergy, the entire energy strategy of Croatia in all segments. So, both production and transport, and renewable sources and ultimately efficiency and all that, energy efficiency and everything that belongs to this energy sector, which will certainly become needs and what today exists also because of the obligations we make in the European Union but also because of the situation that Croatia has on the Croatian energy map. I'm not sure the centre with its capacities will generally succeed and cover it. I don't see why. Why didn't it actually go into strengthening that part of the Ministry of Economy, which, where we agree, have been undercapacitated and, of course, should have made an effort to strengthen in this direction. Okay, maybe this center will partially compensate for that lack. Croatia's electricity industry, of course, is one of the key assumptions of future investment projects because it is both necessary and necessary. Therefore, Croatia must build new electricity sources in Croatia and in the conventional area of course and especially in renewable sources. I remind you that the government has passed, so our government has brought the project catalogue into the energy sector and Croatia's electricity industry itself is represented by over 4 billion euros in the catalogue. I believe that today one part of these projects will be heard again after the government brings out their plans for investment in the energy sector. One part of these projects is in high preparation and, of course, one part of these projects should be speeded up and perhaps redesigned. And it seems to me that right in that segment and the ambition of this center will be the greatest. But it's also a question again of what really is the role of the administration, the entire project potential of these public enterprises and the very role of the assembly, therefore which is the owner, and whether there will be overlaps and indeed interlocks in decision-making and enforcement. But I think the government actually wants to compensate for something that's just doing these days on the other side, and that's the appointment of people in administration in these companies. So, in both JANAF and HEP, something is going on that's probably not going to be good, it's going to have serious consequences. They're called members of the administration who have nothing to do with energy, who don't even have any experience, I don't think they're even in the economy. And I'm sure this center that might have better quality personnel will compensate and compensate for that huge deficit. Why does that seem? Not that we're judging now, but we can and must warn. So here, of course, we can appreciate these efforts by the government to give this additional capacity and potential towards investment in the energy sector. But indeed it will certainly not compensate for the great lack and lack of what will happen because of the appointment of political personnel from the administration itself and this lack of quality resources that are missing from the Ministry of Economy itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4778	Thank you very much. We have a single replica on your display. Dear Representative Branko Bačić. Here you go, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4779	Thank you. ... when you raise doubts about the need to set up this centre, and when you support the idea, that is, the intention to conduct these jobs through the Resolute Ministry within the Energy Authority. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] However, what is further in support of the fact that the law is not fully inconceivable is Article 6 which implies the management and coordination of public private partnership investment projects as the activity of the centre. I believe that this is absolutely out of line with the Public Private Partnership Act because the basis of this law and the establishment of the Public Private Partnership Agency, which is precisely on these projects and which should be implemented by this centre, is within the competence of the Public Private Partnership Agency. Thus, in addition to all those bodies that I have listed in the introduction and stated that today they are doing similar jobs that should be done by this centre, you know that a Public Private Partnership Agency has been established to monitor projects, which participates in the implementation of these projects, and is now the establishment of this centre that agency has any purpose at all? What is the job of this Public Private Partnership Agency when most of these transactions will be taken over by the centre under this law and thus make the Agency for Public Private Partnership unnecessary.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4780	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the Đuro Popiè's esteemed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4781	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Yeah, it's one of the confusions that usually appear in this law. Perhaps, and what is certainly because here is that and there is this idea to strengthen these capacities administratively to manage projects in energy, it is being dropped here in fact what is the essence – to help and motivate investors, private investors in the energy sector, which I suppose would be a much more quality and necessary role of such a centre than actually to mix the competences of various bodies that already exist today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4782	Thank you very much. The following has been registered for discussion by the respected representative Tomislav Žagar. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4783	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with an associate. The energy sector is of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia and in this respect any intensity leading to better construction and increased investment in the sector is desirable. The Energy Development Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, adopted in the Croatian Parliament on 16 October 2009, defined the goal of building a sustainable energy system in uncertain conditions of the global energy market and with scarce domestic energy resources. It is necessary to ensure the security of energy supply of Croatian citizens and Croatian economies, the competitiveness of the energy system, of course, with regard to environmental protection and sustainability of energy development. Such energy supply is a prerequisite for economic and social progress. In the Republic of Croatia, energy activities are involved with approximately 75% of total greenhouse gas emissions. Investments in energy efficiency, renewable energy sources and low greenhouse gas technologies are necessary to achieve the Kyoto Protocol's objective as well as future obligations of international agreements in greenhouse gas emissions. The energy sector of the Republic of Croatia requires significant investments. It is therefore necessary to encourage investment in the energy sector. In the case of large investment demanding production facilities with a long-term return period, the Government of the Republic of Croatia must create an incentive investment climate. In doing so, co-operation between state institutions and local self-government units and investors is necessary. In this sense, I see the establishment of a centre as a sort of feedback or feedback that the government will be able to control through one central body all investments in the energy sector and the results that will be achieved. The activities of the centre mentioned by this law are quite clearly defined and seem rather complex to me. In particular, it is important to welcome the definition of cooperation with the units of local and regional (regional) self-government. It should also be welcomed to make the Register of All Investments easier to monitor and control the implementation of investments. By properly conducting investments in the energy sector, we can achieve more goals. The first is the natural energy sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia, security of supply and competitiveness of the system. The second objective is to develop the economy. First of all, good investment monitoring and encouraging good investment will increase the success of companies in the energy sector and speed up the decision-making process as a clear distribution of responsibilities. In addition, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in accordance with the legal frameworks of coordination with the centre, must also take into account as much participation of domestic performers as possible both in carrying out investments and in installing domestic producers' equipment for which we have great potential in our country. This will have a direct impact on the development of the economy because jobs cannot open themselves incentives and subsidies where, by the way, the smallest share of horizontal support directly affecting innovation and new technologies is said. But we will have the opportunity to say more about this when we soon discuss the Support Report. Jobs also do not open up in themselves good credit arrangements which are very little for the truth today. Only contracts can be opened in this country. In that sense, I see a great opportunity. Finally, there is the objective of increasing renewable energy sources, of course, in line with internationally recognised commitments. I share the view that every investment in the energy sector should also be monitored by the Ministry of Environmental Protection because in fact, every investment in the energy sector is also an environmental operation. And to conclude, if the centre executes the tasks you have set in terms of business analysis and development plans, innovation, the development of strategy proposals, professional support, the development of monitoring rules, the management of the Innovation Register and cooperation with all other bodies, we will begin to achieve significant benefits. In that sense, we need to uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4784	I thank Representative Sagar. The next person to report for a ten-minute debate is distinguished representative Boro Grubisic. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue on this agenda point. Next in line is Honorable Representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4785	Mr. Vice-President, Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues, this law touches two particularly important issues of Croatian economy or Croatian politics and society, which is a question of energy and investment. As we stand with energy, we know more or less. Energy is a global problem, it's getting smaller and smaller, and it's more and more needed, and we're somewhere at the bottom of the world not only in Europe but in the world by energy addiction. We are entering the EU with these requirements regarding the percentage of renewable energy sources in total energy consumption and this is one of the problems for which it is not clear to the end that the Republic of Croatia will succeed. Therefore, any measure which goes towards improving energy production and energy consumption and doing better than it has been so far is a measure that needs to be carefully considered and, of course, should it be accepted in quality. An equally similar situation is actually better said with investments. We know that there have been no investments in this country over the past few years, and in part because our capacity to process investments is such that they often reject them. Often, the investments that have gone towards Croatia, which have been held there, have been on hold for a year or do not know how long they leave Croatia because our administrative capacities are such that they are unable to convert, implement them and that it is indeed a real investment but is merely an investment in creation. And this law actually has a task, has an ambition to bring more order, more efficiency into these two so important areas and segments of economic life of the Republic of Croatia. There are some questions here about how this center will work. Two questions that have long been passed through Croatian political life are actually hollow questions. The first question is to divide the prey. What does that even mean? The share of the loot in politics is if you speak of a voluntary determination of jurisdiction according to the citizens' gained trust. And what's wrong with that? Often, those who speak of the division of prey when this prey is divided and struggle to obtain as much prey as possible. And once we stop talking in those categories because when someone else allegedly divides the prey, it's a division of the prey, and when we share the prey, it's a division of jurisdiction. So let's stop bothering the Croatian regiment and drag him away from the real problems. So this is a matter of responsibility for competence that is in line with political support and political programmes presented to Croatian citizens. And what's wrong with that? The second question is the question of people. That's what the last two months here have been talked about hundreds of times and when it was and when there was no occasion. The idea that there would be some super professional people, independent, moral and professional, is an experienced incorrigible illusion. Whom will you name if you take the responsibility to solve a problem and some question of this country, but the people you know, the people you trust, and it's not the key question that people are. Well, of course they're people that the political coalition determines because it estimates they'll do a good job here. The problem is how to monitor their work. And that's a fundamental question, and it's not a political similarity issue, because every party that has received responsibility and if it seriously accepts that responsibility it has received from its citizens must do everything possible to respond to that responsibility. And that's why it would be good to once stay away from these flossules about political resemblance, and look more towards what is the goal of every policy, which is efficiency, it's solving problems that exist in society, and then that instrument isn't so important. There's been talk here about other bodies, there's funds, there's agencies, there's ministries, there's administrations. Yes, there are funds, there are agencies, there are ministries, there are administrations, and we are where we are. So this is precisely an attempt to make these overlaps, that this ineffectiveness, that the non-coordination that exists in the work of our bodies of the state administration and in the energy sector and in the investment sector, even in all other sectors, that this poor work of these institutions is that overlapping, and mutual blockades, to sort of solve it. And that's actually the fundamental intensity of this law and this center. Therefore, if the centre in that part succeeds in making these institutions that we are talking about do their job properly, then the centre, as was the speech from the HDZ Club, will achieve a fundamental idea that has not been challenged here. And that's why we have to wait a little while, we'll see. The centre gives regular reports to the government. The government will provide regular reports on the business of various segments, various institutions, public enterprises, agencies, etc. After a while, we will see if there has been a shift in the work of this center. When talking about the structure of the Supervisory Board here, it is said that there should be an odd number of members of the Supervisory Board. This Supervisory Board is not the Supervisory Board of Revotes, it is the Supervisory Board of Consensus, mutual information, understanding, monitoring, and not voting. Therefore, this objection absolutely did not hit the right place. To conclude, therefore, it is an absolute two priorities of the Croatian economy and Croatian society for energy and investment, and this centre has an ambition to achieve more efficiency in these two segments than it was before and of course, in this regard, expecting that this will indeed be the way to be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4786	Thank you, too. On this exhibit we have reported three corrections of the incorrect quote and three replicas. First the corrections. Dear Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4787	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague, Radoš, said in his presentation that I am correcting this incorrect allegation, that the purpose among other things is to establish this center and monitor and monitor the persons you have set up in these companies. In fact, that is not true because the responsibility of the persons placed in the administrations, the supervisory boards of these societies, is not reduced by this law. They remain responsible, however, under the Company Act. And their responsibility, based on the establishment of this centre, will be neither smaller nor greater, their responsibility will remain exclusively under the Company Act. The administrations will be responsible for the Supervisory Board, the Supervisory Board of the Assembly, and that is the only way in which responsibility has been established in the business of companies. And another incorrect allegation, that this supervisory board will not be revoted in it, that is, the matter of agreement, is not true because Article 10 of this Law states: in the event that a decision-making vote has a minister in certain matters... economics. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4788	Comrade Bačić, your time is up. The second amendment, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4789	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The inaccuracy of fellow Radosa is that this will be a co-ordination in the supervisory board on issues relating to self-monitoring. It clearly states in Article 10(3) that if no consensus has been reached in certain matters, the decision-making vote has the minister responsible for the economy, that means Mr Cacic or the first vice president of the Croatian government. What a coincidence, so this is pure dictatorship, this is absurdity over absurdities. What a law, what a decision, what a consensus. This is a joke you wrote in this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4790	Third Amendment, Honorable Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4791	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So in a demagogue political speech, counterpart Rados said a series of inaccuracies, and one is crucial. So it's not about the division of prey or party redistribution. Just remember the statements of the president of the CNS and the first vice president of Mr. Cacic when they asked him how he would distribute... Then he said please, so we're not HDZ to share. [[You don't understand.]] And today you can see if they are or aren't, and what they are, the division where professionals move, and they bring in party-like people.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4792	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4793	Mr. Vice President, none of the colleagues who corrected the incorrect allegations actually corrected the incorrect allegations. So Article 209, they're reporting for a correction of an incorrect quote and they're not...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4794	... So, my colleague Djakić, I ask you not to throw yourself out of the bench, and please state which article you are referring to, which article has been broken by the Rules of Procedure. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] It's your duty.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4795	Article 209 because colleagues are not...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4796	Article 209 gives you the right to appeal to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but now tell me which one is...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4797	In accordance with Article 214 of Regulation (EC) No 214/2009, the Commission concluded that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, I didn't say when it comes to colleagues, Bačić, that it will be the centre of human surveillance, but that you should take care of the surveillance of people. A fellow Shuker is talking about it, correcting my opinion. I just said it wasn't prey...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4798	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4799	It's that it's jurisdiction. That's my belief. So did counterpart Djakic. He corrected my beliefs, not my false allegations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4800	A fellow Radosh, like this. So all three of the corrections to the incorrect assumption that I believe were within the limits of the Rules of Procedure. It's always kind of a border area, but I think it's time we changed that Rules of Procedure. It is not right for a colleague, Radoš, to use the breach of the Rules of Procedure to answer. You will now have three more replicas, you will be able to answer those replicas to say anything you want to say. I think it would be good for all of us and for Parliament to stick to this Rules of Procedure until we change it, as much as possible. It'll be simpler for all of us. Did you report for any damage to your colleague's Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4801	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The Rules of Procedure in Article 209 were injured when you did not respond in due time to Mr...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4802	Article 209... Article 209 has not been injured, Article 209 states that you have the right to lift a plate for the breach of Rules of Procedure and to correct an incorrect quote. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] This is the content of Article 209 of the Treaty on the Functioning of Read Article 209 before you refer to it. ... So read it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4803	Mr. Vice President, I just wanted to warn...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4804	You can't warn, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, you can't, Comrade Djakic, you can't... [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4805	I congratulate you for using all your business opportunities to warn your colleague, Radosh, and if I have to repeat my correction to be...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4806	No, you won't do anything again because I'm taking your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4807	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4808	Now we're going to the replicas. The first one was answered by a esteemed colleague, Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4809	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Just to avoid this kind of discussion, I answered the line, and finally, that my colleague, Radosh, might respond. He told his colleague, Radoš, that this law has two aspects, energy and investment. I think there's only one aspect and that's how to achieve absolute power on your prey. Namely, it's not a bad division of intelligence when... It's self-inflicted. [[You don't understand.]] But what's wrong with it is that this is the creation of a parallel power body, and it's bad that there's no distinction between political appointment and expertise and the ability to manage companies. Namely, loyalty to principles is a great quality, it speaks of the strength of man's character. Loyalty to people is also a great quality, it says you're holding on to the man you've kind of been hanging out with and who you appreciate. It's a terrible thing when those two loyaltys conflict and your principles and loyalty to your boss conflict. The results are mostly tasteless, often unnecessary. This center, my colleague Radosh said, should force all these other organs to work. I didn't know someone had to make people do jobs for which they receive their salary. If they don't, then the government needs to disband them and fire them, and we don't need to set up a center to force them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4810	Here's the content of this replica is almost identical to the corrections of incorrect allegations and colleague Jozo Radoš has an opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4811	So the key question is efficiency. If we have a system that has been unable to raise the country's energy efficiency for 20 years and if it is unable to increase important investments, and all economic indicators are saying that, then there's something that needs to be changed. Do you, colleague Vuljanic, feel that these institutions should be preserved with these relations and with this efficiency. The government has decided this time. And since the work on really real problems should give her a chance, and then this House will have the opportunity to control and verify through its supervisory mechanisms to what extent the ambitions and goals of this Law are achieved.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4812	The second replica is the esteemed representative Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4813	Your Honor, Mr. President, I should have put these behind my back for a while to hear myself. Mr. Radosh says the division of the prey is politically which is bad or the division of political prey, so what's wrong with it. It's a leit motive for his exposure. I'd say you too, son Brutus, would you, brother Jose Radosh? This is terrible in terms of civilization, and you are preparing to represent in Brussels how clear it is for me to present to Croatia what I know or to the Strasbourg Parliament. Will you take this philosophy to state management and interpret it in Strasbourg or elsewhere on behalf of Croatia? I wouldn't want that! In fact, here we have to talk about the philosophy of government. This government, this majority of parliament, has clearly defined itself as a political aspect of governance. Everything was politicized by the minister of 10 places under the minister is all political. Now he's taking over Jozo Radoš, I hope since HNS has taken over HEP that he's going to get some synocura there, which is why we need to talk about what he's saying here. But I want to say, if we're determined to run these companies politically, all of them, etc. then there should be political oversight by the opposition as well as by these parliamentary committees. The government has the majority that it can lead as it pleases, and the opposition has the right to have insight and to be corrective. We're going to political management. I don't mind if most people think it is, that. But then that's not what we want capable of, not the like. That's how it's been on the streets for the past year in the name of this current that has now come to power, and what about that Radosh. It means there's nothing left of it, we've turned everything. We want the same, not the capable. It can't. This isn't going to end well for this country. [[Intruder Stazic: Time.]] Because in four years or as long as you want, you will again tell the same stories that Croatia will not lead forward. [[Intruding Stazic: Time of fellow Marasović.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4814	Replication response, distinguished representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4815	So knowing Brother Dujo Marasovic's superficiality, I suppose he never shared the spoils, that it was his political habitat that was completely foreign. And I didn't advocate the division of the prey. I was talking about how logical it is to have citizens' trust based on the programme, to build on that programme and on the basis of these, that trust is taken over by jurisdiction. You call it a spoils division. I call it taking responsibility and I didn't talk about it. As far as sinicura is concerned, you obviously do not know how it works, not me personally, but how the Croatian Parliament works. Namely, the representative in the Croatian Parliament is an official and cannot have other income than these incomes he has in the Croatian Parliament, and that is not my ambition either. This job I do is quite enough for me and there is no need for me to do any other work and, of course, work related to work in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4816	And the last replica of the distinguished representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4817	Col. Jozo Radoš had previously said in a replica that, should I leave these institutions to do what they did...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4818	Comrade Vukšić, look, you can replicate the basic exposure, not what your colleague Radoš was responding to in the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4819	I'll link it to basic exposure, you know. It's not the institution's problem, it's the people who work in those institutions. You asked in the basic statement whether it was actually a warning to divide the prey of a political flossula. First of all, the division of the spoils was denied by Mr. First Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Cacic. Just two days after the election, it seems to me that he was coming out of the SDP building and he said please nice when the press asked him if you'd shared the chairs on the board of directors. Then he said about the boards of directors of public companies, and then he said the following sentence: "Please, we are not HDZ." Political prey, how can it be known that something is a political prey? By what kind of people you put on boards. In the supervisory boards of individual companies, public companies are appointed people or are prepared by people who confirm that it is political prey, which, according to their qualifications, are not up to it. And that's why we claim it's a division of prey.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4820	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4821	A colleague, Vuksic, if someone is placed on the basis of a political position, does not yet mean that man is not competent and professional. That's just what needs to be shown. When it comes to the division of prey, it's a flossula, it's a hollow story, it's a self-moving of real relationships how politics works. These are formulas that don't belong in this context at all. So I didn't notice when we discussed on behalf of the clubs, or negotiated the division of the spoils in the Parliament that Croatian Labourists had left their prey to others. Well, that's how you became president of a parliamentary committee thanks to that prey. I'd say the basis of your party's jurisdiction and the foundation of your party's strength. But if you say so, it was a division of the prey.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4822	We'll continue the debate for 10 minutes. Dear representative Anna Lovrin, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4823	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister. So, I will not support this law as well as the Croatian Democratic Community club. I will not support him, not for reasons I do not think that he should pay particular attention and attention to the energy sector, his stability, its efficiency, as of course the basis of every economy but also the lives of citizens, not because I think it would not be a good idea for all investments to be monitored in one place and that they have unique investment data, but because I think all of this law will not be achieved. Here we have heard today from the ranks of rulings who claim that this law introduces more order into the field of energy, but also into the area of investment, and I say that this law no longer introduces order, that this law introduces more riots, that further disturbances are introduced, ambiguity, that this law introduces control of controlled control. It's not a unique case. Recently here in this House, we had a debate about another law, the Law on the Construction and Circular of Ministrys and other central bodies, which is proposed to set up the Central Office for the Management of State Property. There will also be control of the controls, so with the Agency’s State Property Management Agency’s tasks, it will have to go to the Central State Office to ask its previous opinion if she can, can it, was it good that they did, etc. We now have the Public Private Partnership Agency, we have the Department of Energy at the Ministry and in other ministries. A series of bodies that actually cover this same segment and yet you won't know who's doing what, but you'll know where the cap is and where the final word is after it's twisted between all those bodies that will have some kind of parallel jurisdiction, but eventually you'll know who the boss is and who will judge. That's what this law determines. You promised recently, and that was your program, so the rationalization of the state administration and the public sector. You promised to reduce the costs of the state administration by firing all those who work for a certain period of time, overtime, etc., while passing daily proposals for legislation establishing new state administration bodies and public authorities with public authority. I'm asking who's going to work in them. Some volunteers, someone who won't have to pay? The answer to this is likely to be that for this Energy Sector and Investment Monitoring Centre, it only needs one million kunas as initial funds in the budget and that it will be financed on its own. What's it going to be financed from? The sources of funding will be compensation, and this fee will be agreed by the centre with those whose investments will lead and who will benefit from their services. How much compensation? That's what they're gonna do to each other. And who else are you besides the center? These are the authorities of the state administration and these are companies owned by the Republic of Croatia. So, where will the authorities of the state administration pay that fee? Well, I guess from the state budget they're using. So, again, something from the hollow to the blank, and I don't know how those savings will be secured. But here's if, therefore, I don't think this law should be done, that the purpose of this law can be achieved, but with those existing bodies in the state administration, it's just, of course, work. Therefore, efficiency and stability of the energy sector can also be monitored through the Ministry of Economy, through the Energy Administration, investment can also be monitored through audio, but also through here, clearly already established State Office for State Property Management. But if the Proposer insists, and the majority of the assembly thinks and argues that they will support this law, then I will look back on the very text of the law when it is already intended to achieve this law to really be at least as far as it can be achieved. First of all, I would warn of the name of the law which is here if the average intelligent people, and I believe that the MPs in the Croatian Parliament are, they understand very much, then he may not be most clearly corrupt. So it was doubtful whether this was about the Energy Sector Business Monitoring Centre and investment in the energy sector or whether it was about all investments. By reading both the reasoning of this law and the text of the law, one could understand both. Therefore, it is not specified, and particularly in some of the provisions of the law, for example, when the conditions for the appointment of members of the Management Board are laid down, it is said in the last indent that a person may be appointed if he is not engaged as a natural person in the business of the company referred to in Article 4(1). So that's from the item that's talking about the energy sector. So it can't be a person who deals with something in the energy sector, but this law will not only monitor the energy sector, but whole state investment. So why is it important now not only to be the one in the energy sector, and I don't know from which sector this person could not deal with anything because he follows what I said I got on the board when I asked the question. So this law monitors all state investments of over 10 million kuna. Another misunderstanding so I don't know if that's what the proposer really wanted or if that's what happened. Therefore, this law defines the concept of the energy sector in Article 4. defines the concept of investment. Therefore, it says that investments within the meaning of this law are all investments of 10 million, which exceeds 10 million, but says except in the case of investment, investment projects of public private partnership involving state administration authorities regardless of the value of the investment, means lower. I'm asking if you wrote on purpose the bodies of the state administration? Therefore, not public bodies because the Public Private Partnership Act says that one public partner is public authorities, so public authorities. Which means, is this investment under 10 million only considered if the authorities of the state administration and did you deliberately or by chance miss it or do you have this kind of corruption? And I warn of paragraph 4 which says that, exceptionally, if it is a public private partnership in the area of infrastructure in this sense, then when you defined the investments and the energy area should be defined and what infrastructure it is within the meaning of this law so that there is no confusion in the application of the law. And I'm asking why this public-private partnership that's going to be in this unique register why the infrastructure projects are being excluded, which is the point, I couldn't read it. Similarly, you are invited here, in the powers of the Management Board, to provide guidance in Article 6, I am talking about Article 9, so in Article 6, I failed to read that the job is to adopt guidelines, so here in this sense it may also be a mistake. And in the end here I see that time has expired but just to answer that this is not about the division of prey here it is about that the entire prey is under one hand and under one hat of the first Deputy Prime Minister or Minister of Economy and that seems to me to be the meaning of this law. And this is so clearly and transparently seen from this provision on members of the Supervisory Board, so that there are two ministers who will be discussed and then one first vice president will say what needs to be and how it should be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4824	Thank you very much, distinguished colleague Lovrin, for this presentation. But with that exposure you seem to be deeply disagreed by some MPs so they want to replicate you. He's a colleague of Branko Bacic's first.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4825	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. However, we very much agree with the presentation of colleague Lovrin, but we will complete in one part of her exposure. In fact, it is precisely respected that the HDZ Club opposes this law but not because the Government would not improve the situation in the energy sector but primarily because we hold that the law is ultimately unimaginable and that a lot of remarks in this debate suggest that if the Government insists on establishing this centre, it should go to a second reading. And when it comes back to this Parliament in the second reading, it would be correct if the Government of the Parliament also submitted to the Law establishing the Energy Efficiency Agency and renewable energy sources which are anyway intended to base on behalf of another ministry belonging to the Croatian Minister, which comes from the ranks of HNS to Mr Vrdoljak, so let's see what the prerogatives of this centre are, and what are the competencies of this agency that I intend to establish in the framework of the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction. And when it comes to decision-making within the Supervisory Board, I must say that the Committee on Legislatives has also given its view that it is inappropriate to be an even number of members and the Committee on Legislatives also proposes to the Government to consider an odd number of members in order for all members to be equally valuable and whose vote in decision-making in the Supervisory Board to be equal, and that is only achieved by an odd number. In this case, the Minister of Finance is not equal when he decides on the Supervisory Board of the First Vice-President of the Government and that is the taste of what we have proposed, which is to establish an odd number of members of the Supervisory Board if the Government insists on passing this law by an urgent procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4826	Here is counterpart Bacic to this sharp replica now to be answered by distinguished representative Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4827	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear colleague Bačić, I don't know. You didn't hear me. So, I never said that we would not support this law because it should not be taken into account and particularly supervised by the energy sector, but that it should, however, but that this law would not achieve it. With this proposed text of the law that it will not be achieved, I said. And as for the number in the board of directors in the board of directors of a steam or odd, it's quite unusual and it's not in the Company Act which is not but it's about the number of odd members of the supervisory board and administration, but it's totally strange and unusual, and I think for the first time we're meeting the provisions to deliberately determine an even number in supervisory bodies and administration that someone might be more equal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4828	Let us also listen to another replica of the distinguished representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4829	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Lovrin, you forgot to mention in your presentation, you mentioned the financing of that centre that might have its own good side but it is full of prejudice, doubt, and doubts about the murky intentions and affairs to be conducted. It therefore states in paragraph 2 of Article 11 that the remuneration of the preparation and conduct of the investments referred to in Article 4 of this Act is based on the agreement of the Centre and of the entities holding the investment. Well, it'll be anyone that's more likely to have a priority in getting energy consent. And it also says in Article 3. "The center can be financed from funds like donations," imagine "credit". So all these donors will be the ones who will get energy consent for further energy jobs in solar energy in wind power plants, etc. It is clearly written that he wants to turn from these legal numbers into murky jobs. So it is nowhere in the world to come to a Croatian Parliament that has two members of the Supervisory Board, two ministers, and the 3rd article says that one will decide everything if they do not agree. So I think it's appropriate that your current appeal to HDZ did not elect boards, boards of directors who were invited in the competitions to report with expertise, competence and everything else needed in the competition. What difference does that make? Heaven and earth. And I believe that whoever gives more to your parties and this agency's leadership will have a priority in getting jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4830	Comrade Djakic, I now give you a warning because of this last sentence because it is deeply offensive to the parties that make up the government. That sentence is likely to be named whoever gives more to these parties is an insult. The ruling coalition parties do not act as HDZ do not receive bags and have unconditional evaluation, unconditional assessment of auditors while your party has conditional. Therefore, please don't be offended. You have no right to insult, I have given you a warning. And now you will hear the answer of my colleague Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4831	My colleague Djakic, I will answer you, I hope I don't earn a warning. But I would say to this statement of yours if we had already heard more than once from this government one new definition of responsibility. The definition of responsibility is actually non-transparentity, no-competition selection, the choice we consider similar. This is also the case, in relation to funding, one quite unusual legal statement that the compensation for the preparation and management of the investment will be determined not under the agreement of the Centre and the entities of the investor. How's that gonna happen every time, the center's gonna deal with, say, one body of the state administration, and then it's gonna be expropriated for that fee. And I'm asking what the review is going to say to that body of the state administration, why you blackmailed to pay 500 grand, and maybe you could have made a 300 grand check, so by which criteria you paid there 500 or 300 grand. So it's not clear to me at all how the body of the state administration going into some business, a public-private partnership, is going to have to address this center now, how they're going to determine that compensation. So was it not possible to establish certain criteria or to say that the centre would establish criteria so that everyone who came to him would know by what criteria he would pay that compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4832	Next replica, distinguished representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4833	My colleague Lovrin, I agree with you that intelligent people are sitting in the Parliament and these intelligent people have noticed the illogicality in the title of this law, whether it is the energy sector and investment, whether it is investments in the energy sector, or whether it is generally investments in the Republic of Croatia, and quite certain that intelligent people know the same difference between the representative body and state-owned enterprises, how people are chosen in the representative body, as they are placed in state-owned companies. I admit when I'm wrong, and that's about the division of the prey, that's where you warned me. I agree with you that it's actually under one or two hands, but I also warn you that you also had a situation all under one hand and that man who is now all under one hand is more in Remitinc and in courts than in politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4834	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4835	Thank you very much. Here's the Vuksic car, I was saying, of course, it's not about the division of prey because nothing is divided because it's about who has the one, the last and the main word in this law. And what you're talking about will be decided by the bodies of persecution, the court will decide, and if anything, if it wasn't in accordance with the law, it will judge. This is about us making the law that we're drawing right now and writing to make it so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4836	The last replica, the esteemed representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4837	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to disappoint Mr. Vice President. Our debate didn't cause a reaction, but I agree with you, and mostly with the part where you said that this law would not introduce order, but that it would be disorder or control. Because if we've heard that the illusion of appointing super-expert people in those places is I think it's saying enough for itself. Well, energy is too important and too serious to think about. This looks like that model to me that the one in charge who knows he's going to give that center for consideration, and he's going to decide in the end what he wants. Whatever you call me, the division of the prey or whatever, it doesn't smell good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4838	There's no response to the replica, but that's why there's another correction to the incorrect quote. Dear Representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4839	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Correction of two incorrect allegations by the esteemed representative Lovrin. First, she said in her statement that this government has deceived the public by promising to rationalise the system because it forms this body. The esteemed representative Lovrin should know as well as most certainly present in this room that the state apparatus is complex and consists of several components and that the rationalisation of this apparatus involves the substitution of inefficient with efficient bodies. Therefore, if we have had the situation as we are in the energy sector, and this is a story without significant shifts, then it is absolutely logical that the responsible government wants to form a body that it believes will respond effectively to the challenge. And the second part, or other incorrect allegation, was of course used to express the division of prey...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4840	You won't have time for him. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4841	It's not about the division of the prey. It's about taking responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4842	We continue with an individual debate of 10 minutes. Dear Representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4843	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Here is the fact that a lot is said on the subject of the Monitoring Centre I would look back and say a few words that certainly this centre comes under suspicion because the current way of running all these activities that are here and in the new law is said to have led by the previous Ministry of Economy. We ourselves were sure that this would continue, because it was precisely part of the circle and important affairs that the ministry had been leading so far. Why and how the Energy and Investment Monitoring Centre is established cannot say at this time, but surely time will show whether the establishment of this centre is good or not. The colleagues here today spoke of this new bill, and they all wondered why it was given in the hands of a man or rather a stranger. Why there was distribution, and these are the words here today spoken from the ranks of the CNS, the division of the prey. This is really such a difficult thing to say because the division of prey and such distribution is not here today, but there is no room in any vault and neither is the Ministry of Economy. All these jobs that will be run by the centre or previously managed by the ministry, so on oil exploration and exploitation, oil transport, gas transport and storage, equipment production, heat distribution, etc. And above all, what I would talk about today, about renewable energy sources. In any case, if the Ministry of Economy, whether the centre of this new law is proposed, I would like to say that this very center and the Ministry of Economy must contribute to the development of energy, and above all I think about renewable sources. Because all of this, together with the ministry, has led to the care and above all, the JANAF that plays this very large role in all of this and the former Government of the Republic of Croatia under the leadership of Mrs Jadranka Kosor has indeed led one strategy of development and energy and certainly conservation, the supply of energy both oil and gas. The past government also made sure that there was no problem in oil supply, and also in these times of crisis when too many winters were also not witnesses that there were major problems. So I suggest that both the Ministry of Economy and this new centre, first of all, and since we know all this together as I said it was done and we know that building large systems takes a lot of time to build large systems, first of all to make project documentation. It also requires the provision of large funds to focus primarily on renewable energy sources. Why am I saying that? Because we are witnessing that the Republic of Croatia has natural resources through which it can quickly build mini power plants and wind power plants and solar energy, i.e. solar parks etc. But at the same time, I am appealing to a new centre to do this together, and we need to speed up what is necessary, and these are the preparatory work to make these investments happen. These are primarily concessions that need to be speeded up and all the paperwork needed to build any of this sector that I was talking about. We are witnessing that this is really necessary, and we are witnessing that Croatia has these natural resources right now. I would also like to mention, regardless of the novelty of all these projects, so when I talk about renewable energy sources. Here I come from Požega-Slavonska County, from the town of Pleternica and we are the first city in Croatia to build just a mini power plant that will be installed these days because the equipment has just arrived. True, it is not a large hydropower plant but a small hydropower plant that will now serve the needs of the city and will ensure the need for electricity consumption in its 38 settlements. So, I'm talking about public lighting. And this is the first project in Croatia that can certainly be an example for others. At the same time, I know that other units, therefore the owners of local self-government units of the town of Pleternica, have witnessed that other cities and municipalities also have natural potentials and that is why I am calling for this centre to speed up the issue of necessary permits, concessions so that these investments can be built in the shortest time period. It is also very important, and I know that this has been prepared by the previous government, so the Croatian Democratic Community. It's about quotas for strength. We are witnessing that in the current law we have a limit to one megawatt and therefore I ask and ask that this centre or the Ministry of Economy continue the sequence of what the previous government has started, which is the issue of quotas because we have real potential and we have potential investors coming from other countries where the truth these resources are all used. And of course they're looking for their place under some other sun, but at the same time they're offering us funds, so that the fastest and the shortest time they can build these existing systems. This is certainly with all those plans planned by the past Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is also planned by this Government of the Republic of Croatia through the construction of large Plomina two or three systems is not now important, through the construction of large energy systems. I know it was a proposal in Vukovar. This is the best possible way to parallel with plans and with the construction of such large systems to contribute as the Government of the Republic of Croatia, as a resolute ministry to enable units of local self-government especially where there are interests and where there are these natural resources or resources to build renewable energy sources, and especially through the cogeneration system, so through that excess waste in the wood industry, in forest management forests, we certainly have an extremely high potential. Therefore, this is certainly the future of energy, above all these renewable sources with these large systems that we plan to build, which we also planned in the previous government and which will certainly continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4844	We have three replicas reported to this exhibit. First, it will be replicated by Honorable Representative Zeljko Sabo.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4845	Your Honor, Deputy Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister. Mr. Representative and the many parliamentary deputies you've been saying here, I'd like to say that if we don't change something, and the very purpose of this is to change it so that investors have a clear guarantee that they can make their capital here faster, invest and create what they come for, and that's profit and profit. We can't make investments in the current state in four and a half years. One investor should wait for all possible permits in view of all our state appliances and bureaucracy that we have. When you mentioned Vukovar, it is this investor who wants to invest in Vukovar who does not want to start thinking about investing at all until it has a clear guarantee from the Croatian government that his investment will quickly be realised. Some other neighbouring countries have established special ministry laws to speed up these investments and attract investors to their countries. And make a deal, don't replicate each other, but let's talk specifically, constructively. I guess it'll be a lot easier after your inter-party elections in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4846	You can replicate your fellow Sabo to the basic exhibition, and do not expand so the replica is wide enough you do not have to spread the theme in this way to mention the intra-party elections that were not at all mentioned here. Let's hear the answer to Franjo Lucic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4847	Well, indeed, Mr. Representative and Mayor, you surprised me. I thought you guys were really going to be replicating the topic I was talking about, and you're going into politics, you're going into party elections. Well, I didn't say anything about it, man. I was talking about the profession, and you used your replica to politically replicate me. Well, if I wanted to talk about it then I'd be far more rigid and I'd have a far different rhetoric, but that wasn't my goal. But my goal was how and how to improve energy in Croatia, especially renewable sources through coordination, through wind power plants, through solar energy, through mini power plants. Well, that was my goal, man, not what you're saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4848	The next replica, the distinguished representative Igor Radjanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4849	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So that the distinguished colleague also spoke in this replica about this wealth of Croatia and the richness of renewable energy sources, the prospects for mini power plants and wind power plants, hydropower plants, he also spoke about the previous government of Mrs Jadranka Kosor, who was concerned that she did everything possible to ensure that the supply of citizens was neat. However, this government has been extremely inefficient in this regard since it is precisely this strong potential that exists for these projects and these powerful investors, meaning dozens of projects that have been ready for wind power plants, for mini power plants that have failed to force HEP management through all the government mechanisms that exist that the potentials of this energy are being introduced into HEP and that this energy can move on. Unfortunately, all these years have been lost in this regard and I believe this law will allow things to go faster.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4850	We will also hear a reply to the replica of the distinguished representative Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4851	Well, my colleague would disagree with you. I was just saying that the previous government did everything and what were its opportunities to maintain the energy system in Croatia. And in the delivery of oil derivatives, in gas supply, and we've witnessed that in these last eight years it's really been very big, it's been a very big winter where large amounts of gas are needed. We weren't gas-free, we weren't oil-free. We've been working on a strategy to do one project assignment, and you know it well, it takes a few years. What Mr. Sabo said can't be done in three months for PLOMIN 3, it can't be done for this energy system that's planned in Vukovar in six months. Well, it just takes a strategy first and it takes time. And just before, Mrs. Jadranka Kosor's previous government has made all the necessary preparations. However much I was talking about increasing strength, so the allowed force of kilowatts, there's preparation. Your government now just needs to decide if it's going to be 3 megawatts, 4, 5 or 2. Therefore, all preparations have been made. Then you can't talk about how ineffective she was, you know.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4852	And the last replica, the esteemed representative of Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4853	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I welcome your debate in every sense because you have approached this important energy problem very professionally and quality, and I think that this topic and requires such an approach, but above all I congratulate you as mayor on the efforts you make on energy in your midst. And I think that's a good way to go, and that's what we're witnessing in different environments in the world. But that's why I'm sorry that such an important subject today raises certain doubts about certain actions, so we're talking about the division of prey, etc. But I want to say one other thing, we also express one fear in many environments that there may be control. In many areas where we provide specific projects. So we have exactly the same energy possibilities in our midst from the geothermal energy of Lonjkovac-Kutnjak where one part was started, so I would like to appeal to the ministry to continue these projects. So, which is extremely important. And we also fear that some solutions that are not in line with environmental protection will be imposed on us somewhere, etc. So it's good and those doubts here at this place say it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4854	Thank you. Here's an answer to the replica of MP Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4855	Here, thanks, buddy. Since we've talked about this topic, so you may be more familiar than others, but here I can say since we're finishing this first mini power plant we've already logged on to another mini power plant using this knowledge right now because in a short time we've mastered this procedure that needs to be changed, because it's too extensive and which should be much faster over time, and I'm thinking first of all about going through project documentation, locational confirmations of the main project, but first of all, the relationship with HERA, PROTEO and HEP. Therefore, in any case, and I was just saying that this centre and the ministry must take into account first and foremost as long as we build project documentation for these large systems that it is these small systems that we raise to a higher extent to a high level because in 2020 we know that Croatia must have certain kilowatts in renewable energy sources. So if we do this together, then I am sure that Croatia will achieve what is required of the EU during this time period and, above all, what is needed by all of us in the Republic of Croatia because we are witnesses here and through the debate, and we also know that the country that is here is taking up a very high place that imports the most electricity, and this alone will reduce imports and, of course, we will have funds in the budget of the Government of the Republic of Croatia for some other projects that are also important for the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4856	Thank you very much. That's why we've exhausted the list of people reported for a ten-minute debate. For five minutes, the club's discussion on behalf of the HDSSB club will be used by the distinguished representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4857	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Today, everything here could be heard in connection with this topic of Cacic's Centre, a pardon center for monitoring the business of the energy sector and investment. In fact, it was heard that it was the only way out of the crisis, it was heard that it was light at the end of the tunnel, it was heard that it was taking responsibility. Very interesting definitions, especially if we would like to know or hear what this centre will be established by the decision of this Assembly and its chairman of the Supervisory Board offers which vision and strategy of that centre and that of the President. Did we ever hear it from the media or any of that person we're talking about? We didn't. What guarantees us that this center will be the exit at the end of the tunnel, the responsible institution? Which guarantees us that this centre will be successful precisely in the energy sector that employs 50,000 people whose 50 billion kuna is easily said now under an absolute which is now under the absolute rule of this centre where all the power in this sector is concentrated, so the concentration of power and absoluteism available in investment and everything else. That's right. Is that what Mr. Radosh says the choice is, and then after that, taking responsibility or something else? We would like to see this responsibility taken into account that here or through the media we hear a vision and strategy for the further development of Croatia's energy, which has been very controversial so far, questionable. Time we talked about the carbon clock we talked about gas, we even talked about biomass etc. We know those who were in the last term that there were various discussions on the Energy Development Strategy of Croatia, that the lobby and the nuclear that it was during the period seemed to me when Prime Minister Sanader was and nuclear technology was being debated in energy. And it hasn't been settled yet. What's the center offering? What about the chairman of the board of directors? I don't know and we don't know. The only thing that's offered is that the Supervisory Board is two members. Interestingly, I don't remember being an even number of members of the Supervisory Board. It's interesting who has the last word, so that's what's said. Interestingly, there are also today various administrations and energy offices. An agency is established at the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, the Energy Efficiency Agency, and the Ministry of Environmental Protection also has energy in its portfolio. Each ministry seems to need to take care of school heats, etc. for education and education. have their own small office for energy facilities in school, etc. We have submitted amendments on behalf of the HDSSB Club and that the Supervisory Board has passed on to three members and that this centre is submitted to the competent ministry in Article 14. The chairman of the Supervisory Board shall report to himself twice a year. So what's he gonna do to himself twice a year? Why not submit to the Croatian Assembly at least once a year? So to make sure that it is justified to establish or establish this centre because it is justified by the Croatian Parliament and should be proud of the report at least once a year, to see what has been done. We are also interested in 50,000 employees, for the Croatian natural resources that we have talked about by Mr Lucic, about increasing energy revenues and developing new energy capacities, all of us here 151 MPs. And that is why these amendments need to be accepted in the form in which we wrote it. About these political bickerings who worked better in energy sooner or later wouldn't. It is clear that companies owned by the Republic of Croatia have an interesting name for companies. And HEP is a company that is interesting or because as someone says here, these companies are managed by some markets before and today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4858	At the end of this debate, we will hear the final word of the Government, Deputy Economy Minister Tamara Obradović Mazal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4859	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. There were a number of questions, some of these issues were discussed previously on the working bodies so identical and certain answers were given. I'm sorry that the honourable MPs and MPs who have asked certain questions that I would like to give here are not there so that I can actually hear them. And given that the budget debate has been completed in parallel with this, I can only say that at our position of the Ministry of Economy, given that the issue of financing the centre itself has been raised. One million kuna is located at the position of the Ministry of Economy, the budget will be scheduled for the vote tomorrow in position A 817 026 3811 to be precise, so within the funds of the Ministry of Economy. As for the dynamics of sending this bill to the Croatian Parliament, the Ministry of Economy as part of the Government has its work plan and, following this plan of work, we were also scheduled to make this centre. And I believe that the debate on this centre at the government's session as well as our future concession when the Energy Efficiency Agency comes to the agenda, so in one partner environment, of course the two ministries will help and find a quality solution and work as they did on this law and on the part concerning the agency itself. As it is known today, in fact, parallel to the ongoing debate on this law in the Government is presented a map of investments or a plan of investments by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And as I said in the introduction, I repeat, and in conclusion, the largest part of that segment is being wasteed right into the energy sector. And as a result of the last debate that each of them had on their part, I would say that although sitting on the opposite sides is actually common motives, the common denominator of their debate is both in their local self-government units and how to enable their citizens and how to provide better energy supply on their territory, how to attract investment, therefore as mayors, has special attention and special task of leading to the fact that investments are also drawn to their territories, to strengthen this energy sector, and I would say that the debate between the two prominent representatives shows that concern for the energy sector is giving an important emphasis to the energy sector. What united this debate and showed that energy on behalf of all our citizens deserves extra and special attention. We believe that this will be further achieved through this centre not only in the energy sector but also in other investments, because sometimes investors, sometimes interested local self-governments, can be lost in procedures, in processes, asked, intervened to have their cases rushed, and in fact, if we are all doing our job we should not actually come to. What we want to see at the centre is what stage individual projects are at, where they are on today, whether by chance for investment in Vukovar what will happen in the next 7 days, without intervention, by momentum, simply by responsibility and professional performance of their work. That's what we expect from this center. That center should be for all of us, citizens primarily, but also for our economy. Through investment and in the public sector, through private investment in the public sector, bring real prey, but not prey in the way that this has been discussed among fellow MPs, but the spoils of the well-being of our citizens in synergy with, and I return to the debate between Mr Lucic and Saba again, in synergy with the attraction of investments that represent national interest on the one hand, no matter where this property is located, no matter where the investment is being conducted, but also in the interest, for example, of infrastructure energy projects, which the EU today decides where these routes will lie for a year and a half, which energy will be worked and which Member States, by regionally defining common interests within, will be included. And that's the question, to recapitulate your debate, it's a matter of government cooperation, the ministry and the bodies of the local self-government unit. There everyone has their own interest and that interest, both mathematically, financially, investment and through grants, not donations, the issue of funding has been raised through donations, it is a grant, an EU grant, for example. So this interest that we as a country are running in the future infrastructure energy network discussed today by 27 EU members, we are running uniquely as a country, and this interest should actually be shared at least three levels and four in cooperation and, of course, by attracting private investment. And that is why, when the result of today's map of investments and energy strategy that Croatia has, which was adopted, I think even that I presented it in the Croatian Parliament. So that synergy is what's important and in that segment we see here the task and responsibility and the job of the center. In conclusion, what the president of the Committee on Economy said on both the Committee on Economy and the debate, he mentioned whether the cat was black or white, rather than hunting a mouse. What we expect from the centre is work, result, monitoring these investments, making strategic recommendations, calculating what is the best option for Croatia or presenting and bad options so that we can avoid and test this centre and this law in practice, of course in our common interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4860	I thank the Deputy Minister. But it seems that Madam Deputy Minister has made some kind of incorrect claim, at least that's what representative Gjuro Popiac thinks.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4861	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Deputy Minister, I think you mentioned the term that the investment map was presented. What is on the government's pages writes the launch of a new investment cycle in the Republic of Croatia in the term 12-15 etc. where a number of macroeconomic assumptions are listed. But it is very interesting that the investment potential of the ministry and public enterprises was written, only briefly, realised investments in 2011 totalling 239 million euros in the public sector, planned in 2012 230... A million. [[You don't understand.]] What the government has been through and the past governments have been doing in investments has been clearly shown by this table, and what you are going to do, we see that in this year you will invest less in the entire public sector than it was last year. Thank you. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4862	Please don't throw it away. The amendments and the law itself will be decided tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4863	We move to a statement on the final draft law on the Energy and Investment Monitoring Centre, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 45, the debate is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the HDZ Representatives Club, the HDSSB Representatives' Club. So I would like to ask Mrs. Obradovic, the deputy minister and the legislator's representative to declare first on the amendment of the Legislative Committee, there are two. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4864	Thank you. The amendments of the Legislative Committee shall be fully accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4865	Thank you. I would now ask you to make a statement on the amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club to Article 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4866	The amendment to Article 10 of the HDZ Club, thanks to the amendment, I do not accept the amendment because the Proposer holds that the Supervisory Board in the proposed composition will be equally effective, but also in cooperation with the specific work that comes from this Centre with all the resources in charge, so also with the Ministry of Transport, and with the Ministry of Civil Engineering and all other resolutions necessary, is equally effective in overseeing the work of this Centre.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4867	Thank you very much. Apparition of the amendment, Mr. Representative Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4868	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, on behalf of the HDZ Club, we have proposed an amendment that we suggest that there be an odd number of members of the Supervisory Board at that center. In fact, we cannot accept the fact that the voice of a single minister, in this case the Minister of Finance is worth less in this Supervisory Board than the voice of the first Deputy Prime Minister and we think that each member of the Supervisory Board must be equal when deciding. So here we ask that this amendment be voted on.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4869	Thank you. And please report to Mrs. Obradovic. Oh, yeah, I'm sorry, the good secretary of the plenary session warned me. We need to make a statement about an amendment that has not been accepted. So who's in favour of the HDZ Club amendment? The amendment did not receive the required majority, it was not accepted. And now I'd like to ask you to make a statement about the amendment, two of them, about the amendments to the HDSSB's Club of Representatives. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4870	Thank you. As far as the first amendment is concerned, the reasons are, the amendment is not accepted. The reasons are the same as for the previously discussed amendment. As regards the second amendment, the amendment is not accepted, and the Parliament may, of course, request the Government to submit a report on its work in any segment, or on the portfolio, in this way and in the framework of regular communication with the Government, on the basis of the powers it has under the Rules of Procedure, a report of work may also be requested through that section.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4871	Thank you. Appreciation of the applicant for the amendment, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4872	Was it so hard to accept, instead of this great explanation of yours, the amendment that the Croatian Parliament has the right to find out once a year what the Energy Centre is doing, rather than the Croatian Parliament should ask the Energy Centre to come here once a year and tell us something about what's going on or what's going on there? That's why I'm asking for a vote first on that amendment, and for the amendment that I asked the Supervisory Board to have three members and you don't accept that, as far as I understand. Yeah. I'm also asking for a vote, because it's a shame that in this country after 20 years of democracy we have a supervisory board with two members. The first thing is a even number, and the second is two members that we know who they are, which ministries lead and what they do. I'm looking for a vote on one and another amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4873	Thank you. Mr. Representative, so I'm asking who's first for the amendment, so on Article 10. Final draft law on the Energy and Investment Monitoring Centre. Who's up for the amendment? The amendment did not receive the required majority, so it was not accepted. And by raising our hands, let us state who is for the second amendment to Article 14. HDSSB's club. Here you go. He didn't get the amendment required by the majority, so he wasn't accepted. Thank you. I am concluding the debate and voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get involved and vote. Thank you. I find that most of the votes, 82 votes in favour, 42 against and 4 abstentions have been adopted by the Law on the Monitoring Centre for Energy Sectors and Investments in the text, as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4874	Now we're going back to the agenda point we skipped this morning, it's - The final bill on amending the Law on Forests, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 46 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy and the Committee on Environmental Protection. You received the reports at the session. I ask if the proposaler's representative would like to further explain the proposal. Yeah. Minister of Agriculture Mr. Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4875	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. In line with the measures and guidelines for the 2012 budget adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia at the session held on 26 January this year, it is also that among other non-taxable duties burdened by economic operators in the Republic of Croatia, the amount of compensation for the use of the common forest functions is reduced. Therefore, the Ministry of Agriculture has prepared the final draft law on the amendments to the Law on the Forests before you. I would just like to briefly remind the distinguished fellow MPs and MPs who are the conditionality of the most useful functions of the forest or the welfare of the forest. Protecting soil from erosion by water and wind, balancing water relations in landscapes and preventing streams and high water waves, cleaning... , assessing through forest soil and supply of underground flows and springs with drinking water, favourable conditions on climate and agricultural activity, cleaning of polluted air, conditions for the development of ecological, hunting and rural tourism, conservation of biodiversity, ecosystems and landscapes, mitigation of the effects of greenhouses of the atmosphere and general protection of the improvement of the human environment. [[You don't understand.]] I would also like to point out that according to Article 61. The forest law provides the financial resources needed to manage forests and forest land from several sources: by means of the biorenovation companies in continental forests. Two of the fees for the use of generally useful forest functions and resources from other sources in accordance with the law. Therefore, the compensation for the use of generally useful forest functions is one of the sources of funding for the implementation of biorenovation works. As is known, the compensation referred to in Article 62 shall be paid. Forest laws are paid by legal persons carrying out economic activity in the Republic of Croatia. The funds are intended and used for the purpose set out in this Act. Last year, funds were raised from the title of the previous commitment totalling approximately 320 million kuna. Once again to point out, the means of compensation for the general service of the forest are to finance the works of biological restoration of the forest, the works of forest protection, the works of forest management on karst, the work on recovery and restoration of the components of the endangered drying and other disasters, the construction of forest roads, demining forest surfaces, and other works necessary for the preservation, the improvement of the common useful functions of the forest. Works of seed and deforestation activities in forestry, the preservation of genofonds and the raising of clone seed plantations, scientific works in the field of forestry, as well as the cost of the production, renovation and revision of forest management programmes. The final draft law amending the Law on Forests proposes a reduction in the amount of compensation for the use of common useful forest functions from current 0.0525% to 0.265% of the total revenue of legal persons in the Republic of Croatia who pay for the performance of economic activity, or 50% in percentage. It is estimated that the purpose of promoting the competitiveness of the domestic economy, i.e. reducing the cost of business to entrepreneurs as economic growth holders, would reduce this parafiscal burden, i.e. compensation for the general useful functions of the forest as a non-tax burden by a nominal amount of 150 to 160 million. Of course we understand that this is a significant amount of funds. We are also aware of the consequences that a reduction could cause. For this reason, we have seen the possibilities of redistributing them or setting priorities so as not to endanger the implementation of the necessary forest economic works, above all, in the area of deforestation, but also in other laws of regulated obligations. In this respect, redefined species of biorenovation and the use of a significant amount of about 82 million kunas collected for transferred and limited rights in forests and forest land will be made available in accordance with Article 55. Forest law. We are also sure that part of the funding funds for forest-economic works will be found as a result of the planned transformation of the state-owned forest management company, which will soon begin as well as the increased revenues from other activities dealing with Croatian forests. The Ministry of Agriculture, as the holder of the implementing activities, will, following the entry into force of the proposed law, approach the adoption of implementing acts, I am talking about the Regulation on the method of calculation, forms and time limits for the payment of fees for the use of the common useful functions of the forest. And at the end of this short, I would also like to invite you to support the proposed Final Law on the Amendments of the Law on Forests, because we believe that it will benefit, or that the benefits it will receive will be greater than the possible adverse effects for which we have prepared alternative solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4876	I thank Minister Jakovina. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I suggest we start the debate at 3 p.m., and now we announce the break.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4877	My colleagues and colleagues allow us to continue our work. I am opening a debate with regard to the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Forests, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 46. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Ivica Mandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4878	Mr. President, Deputy Minister, fellow MPs, fellow MPs. On behalf of the HNS Club, I would like to point out at first that the HNS Club supports the economic disbursement in accordance with all of the current measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This is about a 50% reduction in compensation for the use of generally useful forest functions. The current percentage was 0.0525. It decreases to 0.0265. If we look at the revenues that should be realised since 2011 it comes out that we can plan planned 385 million kunas, here we can expect a reduction so around 190 million kunas would be savings for the economy. We must stress that this law was introduced on 1 January 1991, and it is based on the article of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia by Article 52. What I would further say is that the funds collected as compensation are the general usefulness of the forest function that was used as follows: 14% used in the Gospić forest, 33% in the Rijeka area and 53% in the Split area. I could also point out that out of the total number of forest areas, 2 million 688 thousand 687 hectares of forest and forest land are almost 43% of which are characterised by a large value of the general usefulness of forest functions with a small, almost insignificant value of wood mass. Due to this fact of conservation and promotion of these forests, it is not possible to secure revenue from their management. That's why these funds are used in a very good way. Since the use of money collected from this fee in 2011 the funds were used as follows: to demining 19.5%, to preserve, edit, repair and rebuild forests, forest infrastructure 52%, for private forests 11%, fire communities 5% and scientific research work 2.67%. Why do I mention this? Because when we look at the structure of the Mediterranean fire in the Republic of Croatia, the average number of fires in the Republic of Croatia is from 200 to 280 fires per year, while in other Mediterranean countries it starts from 2, 3, 5 even to 20 thousand fires. Exactly because of the use of these funds. When we talk about the amount at the annual level specifically here in 2011 which was somewhere around 385 million kuna, and if we compare it to the total economic value of the forest estimated at almost 49 billion euros, we can say that 44 billion are waste to this general usefulness and value of Croatian forests. It is therefore necessary to continue to raise these funds in this amount because they are also invested in this way. We agree, of course, that it is necessary to relieve the economy and economic operators that the economic crisis has been supported by all kinds of crisis of non-management, or if you want to say bad damage management of this country literally threw forestry on its knees. We are also convinced that the new management of the Croatian forests will find the modes and ways through savings in business and that some of these funds will be rerouted to preserve the general usefulness of the forest function. And I also appeal to the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Regional Development, the Ministry of Tourism which I have already mentioned, which is directly and indirectly related to the general usefulness of the forest function. Also, I hope that there will be a way to cover part of the costs resulting from the reduction of the compensation for the overall usefulness of the forest function. The Croatian People's Party will support changes to this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4879	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Party Club, Mr. Representative Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4880	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Deputy, esteemed colleagues. The purpose of this amendment of the law is to further disbursement under the State Budget Act as it is said by the Minister and in any case any non-taxable revenue that represents a discharge is to welcome it. Well, even if he was as small as this 0.0265%, what kind of discharge is this? However, we also warned in the reduction of health insurance contributions from 15% to 13% that the so-called the other side of the medal, i.e. that any reduction of certain funds will result in a reduction in the scope of some of the obligations resulting from this. From this part, as the minister reads, funding and demining is being financed among other things, according to the Croatian Forests, which is spent more than 74 million kunas and disbursement of the economy. However, when it looks at who it refers to most of the economy, it turns out by 20 leading legal entities that it is 13 foreign or mostly foreign-owned companies. There are INA, although HEP is still ours, Konzum, HT, Zagreb Bank, PBZ, Zagreb Holding, ERSTE BANK, OMV etc. This again shows something completely different, showing whose ownership Croatia is in fact. Is though it has nothing to do with this, but tax discharge in this case goes the most in favour of foreign institutions. Such a doubt has been raised on the board. I don't know whose side this is established on, but definitely this discharge is always good for the citizens. I hope that the promoter will find funds for demining to make up from some other sources as the minister announced if otherwise this huge part of the overif I'm not cheating 100 thousand acres of forest that are still under mines will remain untapped and pose a huge danger. In any case, tax discharge as such is welcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4881	And to you, Mr. Representative. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, it is not written in the same way, but we know each other very well, it is you, Mr. Cobanković. Here you go. You didn't write on behalf of which club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4882	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Yeah, I was wrong. I didn't write it on behalf of the club because I wrote the debate individually, and then there was the correction, so that's, here's me thanking you for your concern. Dear fellow MPs, respected fellow MPs, respected Madam Deputy Minister and Assistant. Here, allow me to state on behalf of the HDZ Club the HDZ's position on the amendments to the Forest Law. So first of all, let me go back a little bit to history and say that on 1 January 1991 Croatia made a qualitative step when it introduced compensation for the general service of the forest. And I think that's something that was very good. I can also testify in person when I attended the UN meeting of the Committee on Forestry, where Croatia was then praised and taken as an example of a desire that rightly seeks to re-valorize, I would say, in general, a useful function of the forest. I would also like to point out that the findings of this committee have gone in the direction of recommendations and other countries that did not have such a similar form to go in the direction of the so-called introduction. green tax because it is held that forests are not only what can be measured, that the benefits of forests are not only logs, that they are not warm wood or that I do not know raw material for wood biomass, for the production of palettes, etc. that forests have far greater significance when viewing the general benefit of the forest. And I say I must say that at the time, I was extremely proud to listen as a representative of the Republic of Croatia to the praises that I was there. I also have to testify that, as a member of the government, I was also supporting economic recovery measures at the time to implement one of the economic recovery measures and when we respected the current situation in which the Republic of Croatia was in a period of crisis, recession when it was also a need for economic recovery from the so-called economy. parafiscal incomes and when we went to change the Forest Law on 1 July 2010, we also reduced this fee to 0.07% to a total income of companies or legal persons by 25% and reduced it to 0.0525%. I believe that it was quite appropriate at that point, I believe that it showed the direction and feeling of the government towards the economy and that it was something that gave a certain benefit at that time. And I would say it would not compromise the development of certain activities of Croatian forests as a beneficiary of this fee for the implementation of certain programmes. Now I want to say on behalf of the club that I share double opinions. On the one hand, the need and cutting of the so-called. parafiscal burdens that I'm true by not even agreeing to this general benefit in the function of the forest I consider parafiscal intrusion. On the one hand, the need to dispel the economy, and on the other hand, I am afraid of the possibility of functioning and carrying out those activities that are within the Croatian forests as a commercial society which I am mastering to the entire Croatian state-owned forests that will practically prevent them from carrying out all that they should do in accordance with the law not to succeed. I would also like to stress here that Croatia has a total land area of about 47% of the area under forests and forest land, that 22% of it is now about 22% even now going towards 23% because significant denationalisation of the forest is in private hands, meaning that the Croatian Forests, the Croatian Forests' Trade Society, rules somewhere with 77% of the total forests and forest surfaces. When we go in the direction of certain analyses then we will determine that there are high-value oak, ash and other highly valuable, then less valuable forests, the economic forests mainly of Montenegro and also less economically valuable beech forests. On the other hand, when we look at this part of the forest and the forest land to which the lords of the Croatian forests are then we realize that almost 50% is about the debris and the vegetation of the debris that is about the ingredients that have no economic value. And if the company has to take care and be in charge of that part then of course they must also be provided with certain financial resources. But now let me tell you what those so-called. which are generally beneficial functions of the forest, as they apply and why they are immeasurable, so I agree and I believe that you will all agree that this is something that can't be taken either by a meter or by a kilo or by any other way, measured. These are primarily cleaning the polluted air, then relieving the greenhouse effect by binding the forms onto itself, it is a more favourable impact on climate and agricultural activity, of course it is cleaning water and supplying the spring with drinking water, it is a protection of soil from water erosion and wind, it is a prevention of floods and balance of water relations. It is if we are to be honest and say that it is a common function and influence on the beauty of landscapes, it is to provide space for rest and recreation. They are also important for the development of tourism, and I would especially like to emphasise, for the preservation of genofonds and biodiversity, which is also one of the world's highlights, the need to preserve as much biodiversity as possible. Also, let me say that in last year's Croatian forest based on this fee that was already reduced to 0.0525% that 378 million kunas were due, that of which the largest item of 77.7 million kunas went to demining. This I believe is something that is very commendable, which is very good and that in this direction we should continue to work because the fact that a good part of the forest and forest land is still polluted by mine explosives on the one hand, and on the other side of that forest is not even possible until demining is completed, and in this way I am sure that double benefit and double effects will be achieved because the cleaning of mine explosives will be carried out, and on the other hand create assumptions about the possibility of exploitation. Next thing you know, it's important. 43.4 million kuna was spent on works in private forests. Of course, private forest owners have the right to participate according to their size, their actions and, of course, that some of these funds must be spent on private forests. What is particularly important to emphasise, that nearly 20 million were spent as co-financing of the fire community, which is still very important and important for fire protection, mainly in that Mediterranean area where we witness that in certain years, in certain situations we have very big problems with forest fires. And what comes behind it is 70 million kunas spent on forest infrastructure works, which is the construction and maintenance of forest roads that serve partly for forest management, but to a greater extent for forest protection against fires and that they are so-called fires. Fire roads in the coast, on the islands and that practically such way of building fire roads that are in a fire prevention function, on the one hand, there is a possibility of better monitoring, control, at the time of detection of fires on the one hand, and on the other hand the possibility of coming to places where fires occur and rapid arrivals, timely interventions and prevention of major damages from fire. But on the other hand, I have to show because I am, in my soul, a farmer, mostly a winemaker, saying that these fire roads have done a lot of good because they have opened places where there were once extraordinary vineyard positions, and because of the inability to come, change the way they work, I would say certain new technologies, lack of work with domestic animals, and that practically these areas have remained abandoned and those areas that are ideal and which are one of the best areas and positions for vineyards have not been planted vineyards. The construction of these fire roads has created assumptions that these spaces are opening, that these areas are being brought to the culture and one of the freshest memories is the fire road from St. Sunday towards Hvar that opened the space for another 20 acres of the best vineyards on the south side of Hvar, from St. Sunday to up towards Hvar. And that's something that I keep so very important. Then of course, 44.6 million kuna is for the protection of the forest, 3.7 million for the recovery of the burned surfaces. Here we witness the great forest fires last year in Brač, we need to perform certain recoverys, we need to do certain operations so it doesn't look like a scary or moony surface burned up with those remains of burned surfaces and so on. And of course, there is still 10.2 million kuna to be stressed for scientific research. Very important for development, further progress in forestry is this research work, and all of this has been financed precisely from these funds. Which will, who are the greatest said I'd be paying off. Well, the biggest tenants are INA, HEP, big state-owned companies. And when we say that this is about green tax then it's also normal for INA and HEP to bear a large part of the costs that are in the income structure of these funds, but there's OMV, there's trade chains, but first let me say there are banks because it's about collecting. The way to collect is to take this percentage, which is after the intervention in 2010. 0,0525% of total income. Of course, those who have larger total incomes they are and greater I would say... Now, just for all these reasons I've listed here, I'm holding it, and the position of the HDZ Club is that it's not good to support this law, that it should go in the direction of finding a better and happier solution because we're holding that this 50% reduction would lead to the question of exactly what these jobs are doing. [[You don't understand.]] What could be the consequence? So the consequences could be seen in the inability and reduction of demining resources which would not be good at all because Croatia is a signator of the Ottawa Convention under which Croatia should be without mines in 2019. If we further reduce funds in the Croatian forests which are one of the largest financial donors from public enterprises, then I think it will not be good. Secondly, what the HUP is opposed to Here, I'll finish. [[I just have to warn you, Mr. Representative, that time is up, but please finish this second.]] It is precisely why the Croatian Employers' Association opposes this law that there is a legitimate concern that the elimination of these incomes of Croatian forests will be forced to achieve these revenues towards increasing the price of assortants, which could again lead to a reduction in the competitiveness of Croatia's wood industry, which is very important for Croatia, which has a positive external trade balance, which employs people in rural areas as well as Croatian forests. And here's for all the reasons that I listed the HDZ Club will be against this proposed law, amendments and additions to the forest law. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4883	Thank you, too. All right. I mean, you don't say okay. It's all right. On behalf of the HDSSB Club, Mr. Representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4884	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Proposer. Well, here, my debate will be a little bit different from Mr. Cobankovic's debate. I'm not so emotionally connected to the trade society of the Croatian Forests. So in this case I see nothing else but that it's a typical parafiscal intrusion. It is called a compensation for the use of generally useful forest functions. It was reduced in 2010 and now this proposal proposes that it be reduced even in half. So, the already mentioned amount of 0.265% of the total income of all legal persons operating in the Republic of Croatia. So, not just banks or INAs, but all legal entities both large and small. This parafiscal imposition is also calculated and paid quarterlyly, namely the Croatian three-month original income of Croatian forests. In this case, the legislator did not provide any financial indicators or projections in the assessment of the situation. I am not as well referred as some of my predecessors in the Croatian Forests, so on the Croatian Forests website I tried to see the financial data of the Croatian Forests where the annual financial reports of the Croatian forests that are incredibly incomplete, incredibly scarce, where this income is not listed at all in the annual reports either individually or in its structure. But that's why their annual reports are full of beautiful paintings of forests, meadows and Croatian mountains. So this would be done as said in this case, that amount would be reduced to about 160, 50, 160, 170 million kuna per year. Now what was that fee? This was one imposition typically invented to charge the budget, the state budget of a state-owned company and to empty the economy. In the case of entrepreneurs, this notorious compensation for the OkFŠ was not too popular. No matter whether they're big or small. I would ask myself what direct link to the OCFŠ fee has to some restaurant, radio station, plumber, shirt factory or others who were paying for that load. There might be other people who can impose on this guy. Let's say a fee for CHZ for clean Croatian air so that it is paid to the Ministry of Environment. It would also be a whole series of useful purposes that could certainly be used well or compensation for the PJ Blue Adriatic Sea Ministry of Tourism, compensation for the CFSP for the green Slavonian fields of the Ministry of Agriculture and so on. So it's a question of self-intention as an intrusion, and the second question is what does it look like with that money? So, of course refurbishment, protection of forests, management and the like. These are unquestionable functions that the Croatian forests had performed before and after that, they will perform. I note that last year the budget of the Croatian Forests was 2.2 billion kuna. Croatian forests have countless properties that are partly functional, are partly not self-sufficient in the Republic of Croatia and manage almost entire Croatian Forest Fund quite unsupervised. Kadrovski is more than well filled, and it is not rare that part of and more ranked managers of Croatian forests and local leaders and forest stations live significantly better than their legal incomes. We are sure that the Croatian forests have a lot of internal reserves and in reducing this parafiscal commitment to accomplish those functions they have achieved and with it. If this is about demining, investing in science and introducing a demining fee. The state parafiscal imposition for the next three years will be aimed at demining, but let us not justify the problem of demining with compensation, the parafiscal charge that goes into the budget of the Croatian Forests. Parafiscal intrusions. Apparently, there's 240 of them. Therefore, these are all non-taxable charges paid by legal persons who carry out economic activity in the Republic of Croatia. These commitments were designed by various state and previous administrations to charge in one way or another to the State's budget and also by a number of extra- budget users. These parafiscal duties are not just privileges for legal persons. And we citizens, the taxpayers of the Republic of Croatia, are exposed to a whole series of unnecessary, pointless accusations aimed at our pocket, us taxpayers. They are often not related to any form of consumption of any good or use of any public resource. I'll give you a few examples of our citizens. The other day, I registered the car we all do. In addition to paying the insurance policy you come to the technical inspection station where you pay the cost of the technical examination of 170 kuna. A technical review of the extension of the book, however, the price I pay is 1400 kuna, not 170, how much the technical review costs. And then a man wonders where these other 1200 kunas go. They go for a special environmental fee of 72 kuna, a road fee of 375 kuna plus 550 kuna additional fines because I have a gas vehicle, because this vehicle must be more harmful to the environment although it has less carbon dioxide emissions, an extension of traffic permit 51 kuna, extension of registration 51, payment of prescribed services 40 and something, various labels, patterns, similar. Is it? HEP, fee for measuring and supply service 20 kuna per month. What's that? Compensation for promoting the production of renewable sources 15 kuna per month. The water bill, we pay for the water that leaks and the same amount that's being taken away. In addition, we pay water cartoons for development fees, draining draws for development fees. A fee for cleaning waste water, compensation for the use of Croatian water, compensation for protection of Croatian water. That's what we all pay for. Strangely, there is no compensation for the existence of Croatian water at all. So now let me go back to this proposal. We support this proposal anyway, this is about reducing a typical parafiscal charge, and I would even express the wonder why the legislator once did not lift it and end the story with that injunction. Other parafiscal intrusions should be lifted as well. The state budget should not be filled with such non-transparent charges but rather with a clear and fair system of payment of those services and those goods that are indeed delivered to citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4885	Thank you very much. At the last moment, the correction of the incorrect quote was raised by Mr. MP Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4886	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Dear fellow MP, I will correct you, an incorrect quote in which you said that the state budget should not be filled with such parafiscal intrusions. The state budget is not charged, these are not State budget funds but these funds go to the expense of the Croatian Forests and are used in accordance with the law on what I was saying in the previous paragraph. ... It's not the state budget. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4887	I believe that in a month and a half, these polemics will cease after the correction because they will be gone. No, no, it's okay. Then it'll be a replica, and you'll be able to answer. ... No, no, it's okay. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, not okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, you're wrong. You're right because you can't replica when a club representative speaks. It's all right. I'm just saying it would be better if it were in the future. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Caine, whom I don't see here, but he may appear around the corner somewhere. He's gone. He's losing his right to stand up. On behalf of the SDP Club Mr. Representative Damir Rimac, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4888	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, the Deputy Minister with an associate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, allow me to state my position on the proposed amendment and addition of the Forest Act. In fact, the Law on the Forests is exclusively for legal persons, so-called "the Law on the Forests". parafiscal charges for the payment of generally useful forest functions. The funds are collected in a special account from which certain items that my predecessors have spoken about are actually financed, so I'll let you complete just some of them and say what I think is extremely important. For now, the position of the SDP Representatives Club is that such a parafiscal imposition should not be abolished for a simple reason because it has its advantages, but should in any case be better quality, transparency and better control of the spending of these funds. That's what we've never had before. I believe that HDZ colleagues have, I dare say collective amnesia, when they forget how in a non-transparent way they spent the resources of Croatian forests and how it was actually connected to various affairs, black bags, brown bags and other bags that circled Croatia. Namely, let me stress not only for the works on forest protection
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4889	Okay, I agree, too, forgive me, counselor, that we don't talk about these bags unless it's necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4890	Thank you. But also for scientific and research activities that are very important in order to be managed by forests in a better and better way. Also in the continental part of Croatia, the resources from the generally useful functions of the forest are financed and the works of the biological restoration of the forest, including the restoration of the infrastructure of these forests, but also what is particularly important is what none of the speakers mentioned, which is that in general the useful functions of the forest are collected and protected and defended by the Republic of Croatia, because Croatian forests can serve very well in this part. Very short Forest Management of Vinkovci branch, which stretches to about 70 thousand hectares in 2010, i.e. in 2011, has received some 26 million kuna from generally useful forest functions and most of these funds have been used for demining and maintaining infrastructure, i.e. forest roads, rock pouring etc., etc. In addition to the aforementioned investment of these funds from generally useful forest functions, the law provides for forests which are privately owned, of course. Forests and forest land largely covered by the territory of the Republic of Croatia are of general interest and respect the special protection of the state and are used under the conditions and in the manner prescribed by the law, but also the pan-European criteria for sustainable management from the provision of funds for the construction and maintenance of forest infrastructure. The main decision, i.e. the quality of our forests, is that 95% of forests are natural forests unlike areas in the EU that are actually artificial forests. And that's one very important detail about which to say a few words from this place as well. Namely, from the resources of the general services of the forest, or from the part used, why is this important? Croatian forests provide and create favourable conditions for both treatment and recovery, but also for recreation. All of us in our spare time like to go to the woods, whether it's in the coast, whether it's on the island, or in the continental part. That forest the more decorated it is a more beautiful stay in it. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has adopted measures and guidelines for the production of the 2012 Budget, and under the Fiscal Movement, a reduction of parafiscal burdens has been set, which in this case means a reduction of 50% of the resources for the general services of the forest. The Ministry of Agriculture, as the holder of the implementing activities, is responsible for the amendments to the Law on the Forests, primarily to Article No. 62nd and Regulation on the method of calculating the patterns and time limits of payment of the general useful functions of the forest for which March 2012 is set. The beneficiaries of the compensation as I said in the opening section for the general services of the forest are legal persons performing economic activity in accordance with Article 62. The forest law and pursuant to Article 38(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, The general tax law is considered an economic activity to be an exchange of goods and services on the market in order to achieve income, income, profit or other economic benefit. I must point out that in 2006, these obligations were subject to the payment of generally useful functions of the forest by natural persons, but certain amendments to the law have been abolished. So there were actually all the economic operators they were saying were they small they paid my contribution. Now, in order to reduce the overall useful function of the forest, the Law on the Forests must be changed, and it is the basis of all this and this debate that we are having today in this Croatian House. I'm putting the emphasis on a 50% reduction. Today we have heard certain speculations whether this revenue from the general useful functions of the forest is 300 million kuna which has climbed to some place up to 380 million kuna. We are on the Environment Protection Committee where the assistant minister was also discussing how much this reduction will reflect, or manifest, that part of the functioning of Croatian forests to maintain the infrastructure for cleaning for the maintenance of fire roads especially in the coast and on islands where there are no income items from the wooden building. Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament The relevant law and the reduction of the level for the use of generally useful forest functions would allow for the implementation of measures and guidelines for the establishment of the 2012 budget, which ultimately leads to the strengthening of the Croatian economy and the reinvestment of profits which will remain in the register of these companies. Now we can talk about whether it's 150 million kuna or it's 170 or 180, but anyway it's more than 100 million kuna. And what we discussed on the Committee on Environmental Protection was that the assistant minister testified that these funds will not be questionable, but if they are also questionable Croatian forests will actually come from their internal reserves so that there is no talk about the wood processing industry or Croatian forests collecting raw materials. It's just that thesis doesn't stand and isn't justified at this point. The adoption of this law is proposed by emergency procedure for the purpose of respecting the deadlines and measures and guidelines for the establishment of the 2012 budget until the end of the first quarter of 2012. The reason for the urgency is the adoption of sublegislative regulations whose deadline is for the adoption of April this year, while respecting the adaptation of all the computer and accounting programmes used for accounting accounts, which I think is the main problem or why this law goes into emergency procedure. From all of the above, the SDP Representatives Club believes that it is necessary to support this law not only because of respect for the deadline set but also because the third quarter for the accounting period begins from 1.7 this year, which we also think is extremely important because we will contribute to that part or to the disbursement of the Croatian economy. From the above mentioned Club of Representatives of the SDP in the Croatian Parliament will support the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Forests, with the mandatory amendment of the rules on how to calculate what is in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4891	Thank you very much. That's how we exhausted the list of registered clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate of 10 minutes. First for the word came the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate this agenda point. The next representative is the respected Franjo Lucic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4892	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a esteemed colleague and a colleague. I'd like to say a few words and this time that I'm scheduled to do on the common useful functions of the forest. As I have had contact with the Croatian forests in the past, and I know what OKFŠ is. Indeed today, through these several discussions, but also at clubs, I'm a little surprised that certain debates of individuals go in this direction to say that it doesn't matter at all that we're going to be reduced by a total of 180 or 190 million kunas through the reduction of that percentage that we're subtracting from total revenues at the end of each year after the final account. Cobankovic himself, on behalf of the HDZ club, was just saying what OKFŠ means for Croatian forests. It is really not clear to me that it comes lightly by speaking these words because these funds that have so far been the separation of approximately 370 million kunas for the BOX in the Croatian forests all together know what they have been allocated for and that these are the means that meant the existence and future of cultivation, maintenance and all that is needed in the Croatian forests. Without OKFŠ there would be no new roads, without OKFŠ there would be no funds for fire, without OKFŠ there would be not all of those other activities I have here but if I did not now list them and by reducing the funds of OKFŠ, one great damage to the Croatian forests or the Ministry of Agriculture is done in my opinion. I am saying this for the reason that the funds that have been allocated to OKFŠ gave us a guarantee of better forest management, gave us a guarantee that, in the future as we have so far, we will have rationally available with Croatian forests that we will have a future in growing that we will have wood varieties as we had in this past period and that we can guarantee with certainty that in the next 50, 70 or how many years the revenues will also be the same as they are provided for in the Croatian Forests. Of course, I believe that by reducing these funds, we are doing everything we can to reduce and reduce the activities that have been done in favour of the development of forestry in Croatia. I would be pleased to see that this 180 million kuna reduction is made in reserves that certainly exist in the Croatian forests, and I talked about it on the board because I am sure it is possible to find these funds. But at the same time, I will be very unhappy if the search and settlement of these funds is sought through the increase of wooden varieties in the wood industry. There was also talk of the profitability of Croatian forests. So respected colleagues and colleagues I ask here why Croatian forests should be as a public enterprise profitable, why Croatian roads should be profitable and do not operate with profitability, do not operate with any loss. Why Croatian highways are not profitable, they also do not operate with loss. There are amortisation funds, there are other means to buy and basic assets and all that is needed in forestry, but at the same time, Croatia's forests should be subject to the wood industry that is so important in the Republic of Croatia. The wood industry is an axis and a drive that employs many people who are at the Employment Office today. The wood industry employs the most people it has today at the Employment Office, and this is a medium professional cookout and those NKV workers it still has can also be employed in the wood industry. And that is why Croatian forests have to be the ones that will build the future in Croatia with the wood industry because this production really depends on everything I've talked about. In the Croatian forests today we also have many other problems that this government and this ministry will have to deal with. Some people who were, who had just left the Croatian Forests, above all, the President of the Administration of the Croatian Forests, Mr Vuletic did indeed do one great damage to Croatian forests and individual companies when he failed to do the job he was supposed to do at the same time, when he failed to do the job and decision by the Croatian Government to carry out the work to all those companies where difficulties occurred during the global and economic crisis, to collect his liabilities through the properties that these companies had. And of course he's brought some companies into an extremely difficult situation and it's a damage that's irreparable, which can't be fixed, and that same gentleman in question has left the company and raised a huge severance. And we have cases like these that this government is going to have to fight. But at the same time, the reduction of these funds for the OkFŠ is also a pity for Croatia's forests because they will have significantly less resources for those activities precisely for which they used these funds. If in Croatian forests through rationalization we will get to these funds as much as we have reduced or give God and more then it will be good anyway. But at the same time, if it isn't so I'm afraid it's inevitable, and that's exactly what all wood growers fear, that in a very short period of time, and they expect it because I've talked to them these days, there's going to be an increase in prices that certainly would not suit the wood industry and that would certainly put the wood industry in an even more difficult position than it is today. Enough to say that in Croatian forests is the average personal income of 5600 kuna, and that there are no 3,000 kunas in the wood industry. So if we're going to look for even more profitability in the Croatian forests, then I'm afraid there will be even more disproportionate pay or better said average personal income in both the Croatian forests and the wood industry. Therefore, I am not happy that this is happening, but time will show whether this new law has indeed been justified or whether time will show that it was not good. In any case, the damage to both the Croatian forests and the Ministry of Agriculture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4893	Thank you very much. We have four replicas on your exhibit. Replication was first reported by a respected representative, Petar Cobankovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4894	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow MPs, colleagues and fellow MPs. I want to say here and look back at what you said, and said that the application of this law will significantly reduce funds to the Croatian forests. Yes, of course, that is true, funds will be reduced to the Croatian forests but it is not a problem that the funds are being reduced to the Croatian forests but rather that there is a presumption of the inability to carry out those legislations prescribed by law to take place from the KEFŠ funds. And of course, one of the predecessors said they would introduce a compensation for quality Croatian air. Well, yes, and this is one of the fees that created the assumption that Croatia has high quality air. This is one of the fees that created the assumption that Croatia has quality water dear friends. And I'd just like to point you out here, it's easy to cancel something. I know he probably doesn't remember much of you in 1999 when the HDZ Assembly abolished, I would say, for demagogue reasons, he abolished the water contribution. Unfortunately, by 2005, no assumptions were created for maintaining the quality system until the introduction of a new water contribution. And a flood brings far greater harm than all that is due, and that which is collected, and that which is spent than those purposes. So it's a far greater benefit. And I appeal not to make an easy decision to abolish certain fees.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4895	If I may comment, they say that experience is the best counselor just always late to come. Replica response, distinguished representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4896	I agree with you colleagues and perhaps what I did not say in my presentation, Croatian forests are indeed the national treasure of this country. If we don't take care of them, and here's what I'm going to say is only two or three words which are spent on the KEFSH funds. And indeed what the colleague said, and this Croatian air is really a good part so healthy and good and many tourists who come from other countries just want to build their own cottages in Croatia, especially in mountain areas, in smaller settlements, because we have a healthy and clean environment. Thus, the protection of soil from erosion by water and wind, prevention of floods and balances of water relations, treatment of water and supply of springs with drinking water, impact on the beauty of landscapes etc. etc. Therefore, if the legislator who proposes such a law says that we are right, we are sure that without 180 million kuna, we will manage to resolve all of this from some reserves. I repeat once again, not 180 million kunas, but far, far more. And not only in the Croatian forests but in all public enterprises, then it will be fine. But if it's going to affect the wood industry, which we all believe it will, because it's going to be searched soon, and it wasn't once, but it's definitely going to be a price hike, then it's for the wood industry disaster.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4897	Thank you very much. The next replica on your basic exhibition has a respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4898	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Namely, I must say that I would say, in some ways, no offense to shed crocodile tears over what you call OKFŠ, and it is a common useful function of the forest. There's clear air, water, etc. However, when taken and wondered why Croatian forests should be profitable. I would ask you why Croatian forests should be non-profitable? Why should they be unprofitable to you? And you know for yourself both in your forest or in the woods as well as many others, and it's clearly and loudly said that hundreds of millions of kunas are spent on illegal cutting down forests and not only that, but also for selling wood below the price. So, given the quality of the tree, they were sold below the price. You understand that. There they said hundreds of millions lost or even a billion kuna lost. Therefore, if the reserve is done neatly and fairly in the Croatian forests there is a greater profit than it is now, then this OKFŠ fee you speak of is almost negligible and its height compared to what can be achieved by good management in the Croatian forests.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4899	Thank you very much. Replicate reply, respected representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4900	It's not my goal to replicate and keep picking up, but my colleague Grubisic, I'll tell you one thing. Unlawful cutting of forests no matter who tells you that is not true. There's no illegal deforestation, no illegal transport of troops from the woods. Oh, that's the past. That may have been 30, 50, or I don't know how many years ago. But I assure you that in the last 10, 15 years, 20 years there have been no such shops, and here is the former minister who has been the Minister of Agriculture twice, so regional development can confirm that in today's Croatian forests he remembers the forest and the planning is exclusively done by the rules of the profession and that there is no such thing. Don't be fooled by people who suck your brains out with details like this. That's the past. There is no such thing in the Croatian forests. But there are a lot of other things to talk about and look up in those internal reserves. And look, if only I can, Vice President. So you saw that the halabuka was in the Croatian woods. On the side of FIMA media and whether it'll be anything or nothing, but look at the other thing. So all those inspections that were theft, alienation, like that. Well, look, it's none of that. Well, the State's Attorney's office didn't press charges against anyone for lack of troops. Please, let's not talk about something that's not true. Excuse me, Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4901	Thank you very much. The next replica on your basic exhibition has a respected representative, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4902	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So following this debate mainly your colleague Lucic where you expressed concern about the reduction of these funds, so 180 million. And here I am expressing concern because I come from an ordinary environment where from 76 km2 half is covered in forest. And it's a beautiful, famous Repaco forest. And now I realize for what purposes these funds really are I have to express my concerns and this reminds me of what they've been discussing these days for contributions to health care. He says, we'll cut your resources, your contributions to health care, less resources, but health care will be the same or better. I kind of doubt it, and I doubt it about this because surely these funds have found their place over these places. But I also want to say that these forests contribute to health. Of course, to health all kinds of things and to these activities that you mentioned in the debate for sure. But the third thing that worries me further, and most of these woods come to rural areas. Our many people work in these forests, work in forests, realize their existence, etc. And now, in some ways, other than these fears as to what's going on with the milkmen these days, etc. I am concerned that a certain injustice will be committed to rural areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4903	Thank you very much. Replica response, distinguished representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4904	Here's a very short one. Thank you very much. My colleague, I absolutely agree that these funds contribute precisely to human health. And watch one more thing. These funds that were invested a year, two, three days ago will not yield results per year. They give results for the next 10, 20, 30 years. If we know that today a oak to come into the cutting phase takes 120 years of patrol, 100 to 120 years, then these funds are very much needed to invest in the long term. Or I don't know one word for 60 years. But you can't cut an oak 100 to 120 years ago. And gentlemen, each of these invested kunas in forestry is welcome. I am sorry that both the minister and the ministry will have less funds. The Croatian forests, too. But I assure you that in the future, we all lose, we all lose, and perhaps now we are not able to see it. But for the next 10, 20, 30 and 50 years, and I said how much it takes to grow a oak to bring down a tree. So assess whether these funds are needed or not.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4905	Thank you very much. We're going to the next individual debate for 10 minutes. Dear Representative Zeljko Kolar. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4906	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister with an associate. I'm a little confused, so I have to start a different discussion than what I planned, as if now the oak is growing differently, as if it has a different impact on the environment today than it did when you proposed such a law with the same goal – to relieve the economy. From 0.07% to 0.0525%. Regrettably suggested, voted neatly. And I'm confident with the best intentions because at that point, you've estimated that it could be an aid to the economy. Now suddenly the oak grows differently, it's a different impact on the environment, it's a different influence on the cleanness of the air. It's just amazing, but good. But in public, I also have to say what Mr. Former Minister said, and I'm also concerned about the woods. Forests as a renewable and natural resource with rich water resources in the Republic of Croatia are not only an economic resource but also a large ecological and social factoring. Forests have been a source of life for centuries in rural areas and are now the cornerstone of the remains of people and lives in these areas. Croatia is one of the diversity of forests from leading countries in the world and Europe. The mere fact that in our forests we find as many as 94 types of trees in hundreds of forest communities is about the diversity and value of forests in Croatia. At this point, and this is the data that should be remembered and reviewed, when making strategic decisions that in the forest sector of more than 2 million hectares of forest owned only 850 thousand hectares is prescribed, and even on a smaller surface are economic masters. The mere fact that another 120,000 acres of forest and forest land is still under mines and mine suspected and are not available is certain to have a significant impact not on the management and business of businesses, but more importantly for the lives of people and the economy in these areas. Also, out of a total of 2.7 million hectares of forest and forest land in the Republic of Croatia, almost 1.15 million or 43% take up forests on karst that have an almost insignificant value of wood mass and an immeasurable ecological protection and aesthetic role. And precisely for these specific reasons of our forestry that could be managed over these surfaces in a way that maintained their multiple function in 1991 was also passed by the then Forest Act and where the Institute of Using Generally Useful Forest Functions was established. From this title will be lost from 160 to 180 million kuna, but we are convinced that there are internal reserves, we are convinced that we should manage better with Croatian forests. We know that Croatian forests have many valuable objects with which they do not master well and most importantly are not even functional. The total income of Croatian forests is around 2 billion and 200 million kuna. And we are confident that only with internal distribution that this part can be covered. Should they be profitable? Example – the profit of Croatian forests for 2011 is projected somewhere around 14 million kuna. In Lithuania, which has approximately the same resources as the Republic of Croatia as regards forests and even slightly worse profits of $15 million. And just one such company can lead us to the conclusion that we have a huge internal reserve. It should also not be forgotten that more than 8,000 people work in Croatian forests. The transformation of Croatian forests from public companies into a company brought by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in early 2002 meant a shift in business because it also normally foresees that it creates profit and income for its owner, and is the owner of the Republic of Croatia. Restructure this is the main task of Croatian forests. It is a process that has begun and must be done by the new administration and the competent ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4907	Thank you, too. The next pay phone is a respected representative of Dragica Zgrebec. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4908	Well, thank you, Mr. Vice President, State Secretary with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. In the middle of 2008, the government, i.e. the Ministry of Finance, produced the Register of Tax and Non-Income State Revenue and found that in Croatia, economic operators, i.e. citizens, pay a total of 240 different taxes and parataxes. This should have been the basis or basis on which the recovery of the economy should be built. But until last year, it seems to me that nothing was done about it. On several occasions, the SDP club proposed that in one year, therefore, the first crisis year 2009, for certain such payments, parafiscal payments, in whole or in 50% of the amount of those payments be released. Among other things, there was a water contribution, a contribution to packaging and, among other things, a contribution to the common useful functions of the forest. So, it's already said here, and I'm going to do it again, that this fee is actually just one of the sources of funding, that it has a special purpose and that it can only be used purposefully for the biological restoration of forests, works on forest protection, forest management, rehabilitation and restoration of forests threatened with drying, then demining, for scientific works and other projects etc. All of this is stated in the Law on the Forests. It has been established that it is paid by legal and natural persons who carry out economic activity in the Republic of Croatia, they are obliged to pay it to a special account of the Croatian Forests, which makes up the total income. The total income did not measure the profitability of the company. Companies with large total incomes are usually labour intensive and they have low profits. Therefore, trade in textiles, the footwear industry, the food industry is not profitable in this respect in terms of what total revenues they make, and this is not just about financial institutions paying this fee. So it was said that in the last year it was collected on that basis about 320 million kuna. So these are not the means which, if completely freed, could significantly disrupt the tasks that Croatian forests are required to do. The supervision of the accounts and the payment of these funds is carried out by the Financial Agency, and the Croatian Forests are legally required to report to the Government of the Republic of Croatia once a year on the funds paid and spent. The collected funds should be distributed relatively depending on the share in the area of forests and forest land owned by the Republic of Croatia and other forest owners, so private forest owners, something later on I will say that the Croatian Employers' Association from this activity was manifestly different from what Cobankovic tried to say here. Therefore, there are doubts of private forest owners about the unintended use of these funds, and in this sense, the HUP says several criminal applications have been filed and they doubt the distribution of about 400 million kunas of such funds in the period from 2005 to the end of 2011. And the Law on Forests did not properly regulate the supervision of the use of these funds, and I personally believe that we do not have transparency in the use of these funds because the collection and payment of funds is not carried out in the administrative procedure, so when it goes and the execution can be a problem because solutions are not intended to be issued in the part of how it is regulated by the administrative procedure. The lack of these funds I think it is very easy that in a far greater volume it is possible to achieve them by saving within the Croatian Trade Society itself, which must be restructured and in a good segment to change the way it operates in terms of timely collection for its claims and then in terms of organisation and reorganisation within the Croatian forests themselves. What was evident about the Law on Forests and Sublaws in connection with the Law on Forests at the end of 2011 and the Agency for the Protection of Competition. It gave its opinion and this large number of provisions of the existing current Forest Act from the way they were given public authority to, among other things, this compensation on the general useful function of the forest. I'll read that point. They say "the management of forests of forest owners in the Republic of Croatia, i.e. belonging to works and services, is mostly financed from the compensation for the KEFŠ. Although these funds are collected in the special account of the Croatian Forests and there is an obligation to consider, on the submission of a report to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the fees paid and their spending in the past year, as well as the control of the dedicated spending of funds from the aspect of the rules on the protection of competition, those funds are planned on the basis of the decision of the Administration of the Croatian Forests d.o.o.'. Therefore, in that segment, as well as in some others to which the Agency has been manifested, it should urgently go to or amend the Law on the Forests or the adoption of a completely new law. Among other things, the association of employers in forestry, hunting and accompanying activities in its letter, which sent us opposition to a 50% reduction of this fee, but they also call for the fact that it is not good as the law regulates this matter. They also propose certain solutions, say that the payment and payment and control of the spending of this fee should be entrusted to an independent public institution or the establishment of a special fund, that the funds should be spent exclusively through public procurement, not how the Croatian Forests are doing today, and that it should be taken into account in this sense that this should be used equally in the state and private and in the forests that private owners have. I really do not think that, in any case, because of the reduction, this compensation should be halved into larger problems in those parts of the function that Croatia's forests have to do with the conservation of forests, or the distortion of the economic base of the forest, but that it is necessary to manage and manage Croatia's forests differently without any large analysis, it can be said that this is necessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4909	Thank you, too. I shall inform you that it is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have expired at 16.05 minutes for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. And the next one for discussion was reported by a respected representative of Damir Rilje. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4910	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, representative of the government's co-worker. Here I would like to take a brief look at this problem from another point of view. Therefore, by supporting this law amending the Law on the Croatian Forests, I must point out that I am clear about the intention of freeing economic operators from part of the burden because they must pay compensation for using the OkFŠ as a non-taxable tax that is now being reduced. How much this will affect how much this has affected forest assistance so far and its renewal is a matter of special analysis. Of course, I don't want to talk here about the advantages and preservation of the forest because I don't think anyone should be convinced of that. But I would refer here to what is inevitable so again to the company of the Croatian Forests, whose state rules the corresponding areas and land and forest resources. In this regard, I do not want to talk about financial analysis in the system of the Croatian Forests company, as this will probably be the subject of a special report on the business of the Croatian Forests as well as other public companies. However, by observing these areas from the positions of units of local self-government, I must point out that there is a need for radical restructuring and the creation of a different relationship in the use of such resources. With this I do not want to contribute to the search for something that would not work in the functioning of the Croatian Forests system because someone else will examine it, but I certainly want some relations of clearing and resources to become a function of investment and economic growth within the units of local self-government. Namely, there are areas that have not been under the forest for years or are in the process of shaming, they are completely naked, and with it the masters of the Croatian forest. And I don't think it's built or fire roads, there's nothing there. There is something about it, but it is another activity that is not covered by Croatian forests. Of course, in this area of Croatia, forests develop activity or rent such land for mineral ore research fields and for quarryes, of course, with concession approved by the Ministry of Economy... It is therefore a matter of exploiting mineral ore for an appropriate period which is, of course, also in concessions, but also in leases for that area. [[You don't understand.]] Croatian forests d.o.o. the owner of the research fields shall be paid a fee for the use of land 30 kuna per m2 in advance for 10 years, a fee for the generally useful function of the forest, a fee for the composition of the forest. Owners still pay research fields 2% of their income in the Republic of Croatia's budget and compensation for unearthed raw materials 5% of the value. It is divided into the Republic of Croatia, the county and something on the city and of course a fee for the occupied area of 2000 kuna per hectare per year. Of course it's estimated value, but it's negligible to you, for a unit of local self-government, negligible amounts. And it's about areas, here's specifically for my city Trogir from which I come, actually it's about areas where it's actually supposed to be in some way a nucleus economic zone, and there's also a nucleus for alternative energy sources, better said sunny. So solar collectors and field of solar energy, i.e. collecting and converting into electricity. So as it shows these last two fees that I just mentioned are miserable and the city of them has nothing. Of the three quarrys in the area, there are 400 thousand kuna a year. There are 16 research fields, I won't even tell you how many we have, and the question is, what about licenses? About 200 hectares of such area 1% is not forested, long already. I'd like to say for decades but I won't. And now that you look at that activity that's being done there are actually quarrys from where a quality stone is being extracted from and exploited from which our church, squares, streets, houses and everything that has been built in the old cities. We're an old town so over 2,500 years old, the most beautiful in the world. And now the problem with the local self-government unit is to function in such frameworks at all. Of course, we can resist the changes and additions of the spatial plan because we have found a spatial plan that has predicted that there can be research fields and changes and additions are ongoing, but this process always takes place. You all know that bringing changes and additions to... It takes about a year, a year and a half, and with a little bit of God's heart, maybe two. [[You don't understand.]] It depends on what you have to change and supplement in the spatial plans because what consent is needed to bring. What I'm talking about right now is actually a great natural resource in the catastrian part of the municipality, i.e. a city that is not in the core activity of the Croatian forests, it is in short, and it does not make a significant contribution to the economy of the city. But I don't know how much it contributes to the state's economy, because it's all the same to me, it wants to contribute one way or another, but it has to increase economic growth and it has to increase employment. I don't think that's negligible. There are interests in this area, there are investors and there are all those who are interested in actually doing something in this area. From what I've just said, possibly a solar power plant, olive groves, vineyards, anything that's possible. Now there's nothing, now there's not even a maquis, so that low-grass thing. I would definitely advocate the revision and restructuring of the Croatian forests and certainly for better use of land where, as I said, there are no forests and where no activity is carried out, nor is it appropriate for this activity because it is a breach and a stonesmith. And the only road that exists is the one that these people who are dealing with this research of ore actually turn into grinding stone and exporting where it's supposed to be. And certainly, the entire area as a resource becomes a useful city and state. I support this law, but I'm asking for this to be taken care of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4911	Thank you very much. Ten minutes for the debate, there's a respected representative, Đurjica Sumrak. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4912	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister and Mr Assistant Minister of Agriculture. Here I'm gonna start maybe, I thought differently I'd start my own debate, from forestry. In fact, I highly appreciate every profession and I especially appreciate it when an expert is at the head of, say, Croatian forests or agriculture or health care or education. This means that they will respect everything they have and have passed on for years and what they have learned in their universities and respect all scientific knowledge. What I would like to say about the forests in Croatia, not about the business of the Croatian Forests d.o.o., which is that they are largely fulfilling their economic, ecological and social functions and that, of course, they are lords and hopefully later under the Forests Act. So the woods are also covered by Article 3 and Article 52 of the Croatian Constitution, it speaks of forests as national goods and we can be proud of our forests in Croatia. And for what? This is because we in Croatia are one of the few European countries whose forests have a mostly natural structure and this has had a significant impact on more than 200 years of organised tradition of forestry, which means that the forest has been covered by the profession. I would like to say hello this way, given that I am not a profession, but to welcome all my friends and friends, all of my scientists and scientists of the forest profession who have made a huge contribution to the maintenance of the forest and in general the forest eco system. Indeed, it is a profession that is commendable, and in particular here we see it, and last year, if one of us remembers, remembers the MPs last year marked the year of the Forest Day, precisely on the proposal of the same forest profession. Mr. Deputy Minister, this is not funny at all in the European Union and it is, of course, accepted in front of our profession and marked in Europe that day. What is really important to say about our forests and the profession that deals with it, which is certification. We are the fourth country in the world to have certified its forests, it has received a certificate, which means that it deals with these forests, that it is well managed and cared for. The truth is that in 2010 the government of Mrs Kosor reduced some of these fiscal commitments to economic recovery, including these fees. OKFŠ is called the general benefit of the forest in the short term. And I'm not going to talk about them right now because my colleagues said a lot about it before. What concerns me personally and I have a feeling and a profession that deals with it, but all those who have been involved in it in some way are concerned that this reduction will now, by further downsizing, not be left with enough resources to cover all those functions, that is, everything that this OKFŠ has been doing. So all I have to say for the past year is that over 20 million kunas were paid in the name of the fire department. That's 5% of those funds alone. 74 million kunas for demining, 43.4 million kunas have gone into private forests, and what is in reality the treasures of our Croatian forests are indeed our forests in ruins and they have a value to maintain. And we have to say that last year about 180 million kunas were actually invested in the restoration of those forests. I won't be much longer. I can't, simply support this because I didn't get anywhere today here from either the proposings, and neither of my colleagues and colleagues are here from the ruling party in which the way in reality is thought, how it is meant to make up for these funds, how it is thought to continue to take care of all these things that matter to life and to our children, finally and to our future. How can we count on no one to be damaged? What I wanted to say to some colleagues is sad when it comes to forests and the profession of simply wanting to be humiliated. And a colleague who's not here right now, and he was saying, "I'm telling him now in public." What Mrs. Kosor's government has also told anyone who has information about any thieving, any black, yellow or whatever the bag said to report. Let him say his name and last name, and let's not get involved here when it comes to the profession, so I have to say I always think that fellow agronomists, forestryrs, I don't know veterinarians and others who are often out there lovers of the nature they love and who know respect that nature and know how to take care of it. But then don't spit like that in the air instead of telling someone's name and name, I know he made a mistake, he didn't do a good job and report it. And on the profession, it would be very commendable that we all stick to it and that indeed the profession supports the profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4913	Thank you, too. One replica, last minute, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4914	I don't know who you're targeting with your colleagues, twilight, in connection with these possible or possible reports. But if the ministry publishes one piece of wood 7 and a half million cc's of wood, and Croatia's 5.8 million cc's of wood then that's a significant difference. So when you multiply it by 250 kuna per cubic metre, then you see that the difference or disproportionate in the display of the cut forests or the hives is whatever you want in hundreds of millions of kunas. Where forest inspections and other inspections are economic, etc. So do you think I walk in the woods to report it? The data's on paper. They're published. Whether they're right or not, there's someone checking it out and reporting it clearly.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4915	Thank you very much. A reply to the replica of Đurjica Sumrak's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4916	Thank you. I agree with you, my colleague. Of course, there is someone who should control it and who should report it. However, I will tell you now something, not to protect those who may have committed a crime do not give God. Very often here in Zagreb is our Medvednica, i.e. Sljeme people appear and say they cut themselves, is being pulled out. And then when you go check it out, I can say it because somehow I'm working with that profession, then you can see it's a sanitary cut. But I agree with you. Of course, every crime in everything, so as well as that should be reported without a backup.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4917	Thank you very much. Let's move on. In ten minutes, a respected representative, Zoran Vasic, applied. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4918	Thank you. Dear Vice-President, respected Deputy Minister of Agriculture, the esteemed Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This is a debate that is in some way related to all those measures of Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic's government, which are heading towards economic release. Not only do these measures seek to reduce expenditure. We heard the other day when we discussed the draft budget that this was the first budget in the last 10 years that was smaller, so nominally for 4 billion. Realistically for 7 billion kunas, but therefore we want to unload the economy through these measures. So first of all, I think about reducing the contributions for health insurance employees from 15% to 13%, reducing the water contribution by 50%, eliminating indirect monumental rent and reducing the currently mentioned contributions for the Croatian forests by 50%. As we have heard, so far the forest law in its provisions regulated the amount of compensation for the generally beneficial forest functions of 0,0525% of the total income of legal persons carrying out economic activity in the Republic of Croatia. The reduction of the water contribution of compensation for the general services of forests and indirect parts of the monumental rent in this year will charge our entrepreneurs' cash for an additional 300 to 350 million kuna and we actually believe that they will invest that amount in new employment and new investments. In the last reduction of the compensation for the general services of the forest, which was on 1 July 2010, as part of the implementation of measures of the economic recovery of the Prime Minister Kosor government, so one of the 131 economic recovery measures unfortunately none obtained results. So then the companies reduced that fee from 0.07% to 0.0525%, and that's when Croatian forests reduced revenue by about 100 million kuna. The present reduction proposal would therefore reduce the revenue by 50%, i.e. some 150 to 160 million kuna. In fact, from the minister we heard in the introduction that in the past year the income in the name of the generally useful functions of the forest was 320 million kuna. But it is clear that in the Croatian forests they will have to make up for these funds, and I want to look back in my debate. We heard on the board that there was a possibility of internal redistribution of funds and that they would go in that direction. So, as we have heard, these funds have so far been strictly dedicated and have been used to protect coastal forests and to rehabilitate the burned forest area, to demining, to fund fire communities, but therefore, as we have heard about the financing of private forests, i.e. forest owners. And there is a need to highlight the problem of the distribution of these funds from the OkFŠ, or its transparency, because if we know that the distribution should go in line with the surface, if we know that private forests occupy an area of around 20, 22% and we heard from Mr. Cobankovic that only 11% of the distribution was obviously not transparent to private forest owners. Looking at the structure of the income of the Croatian forests almost 90% of the total income of Croatian forests come from the basic activity of selling wood. According to the Annual Report of the Croatian Forests for 2010, some other activities related to forestry such as hunting, tourism, real estate rental, recreational activities and therefore all other activities that are part of secondary products are increasingly important. I believe that this information, i.e. that information, is not even close, because the clear answer to this question gives evidence that both hunting and tourism and catering in the Croatian forests have, unfortunately, achieved and achieved a negative financial result. Despite the fact that Croatia's forests are lords of 27 state hunting sites and game breeding sites and are, in fact, the largest hunter in the Republic of Croatia, masters with more than 300 thousand hectares of surface area and rich game fund. They also have a number of facilities along the coast for catering services. The hunting grounds of the Croatian forests occupy about 8% of the total hunting area in the Republic of Croatia, and when it comes to the abundance of large game, the data is even higher, or up to 40%, and large game dwells in the hunting grounds of the Croatian forests. Hunting today is an extremely profitable activity. And that's how it really tells us that in all counties there are several bidders and not small money being offered. If hunting can be profitable in private entrepreneurs or abroad, then I see no reason why it would not be in the Republic of Croatia as part of the Croatian Forests. And the question is also why the investment, so far so far, is a huge amount of money to organize hunting houses in forests and forest administrations and hunting facilities, therefore, animal storage and storage facilities. The current situation is such that certain forest administrations cover downs in hunting in a way that the cost of booking to the nearest well-being forest only to show positive financial results. So if something is invaluable, you have to ask yourself why it is like that or go into the neighborhood and see positive examples. So unlike us neighbouring countries, Hungary, a little further away from Bulgaria, Romania, the Czech Republic recognized a pattern by which hunting is possible to turn into a highly profitable branch of the economy because, with the hunt and the shot, it also offers photosafarium, etc., and it is important to know that the hunter is a guest who spends up to 3 times as much as an ordinary tourist. The same case with catering facilities owned by Croatian forests. They make huge losses, cover themselves by selling troops in good forests, while being closed to citizens and serving to wave the maintenance of colleges and meetings, are not on the market, and are located in attractive locations and have no competition in fact. Our colleagues and colleagues on the one hand are talking about a reduction in income for Croatian forests of around 150 million kuna per year on behalf of reduced compensation for generally useful forest functions, and on the other hand, bigger amounts are getting out of hand. As Croatian forests lord with their resources, here I will give an example of the situation from Sisak-Moslavina County. I mentioned earlier that Croatian forests as part of their mastership and with the ponds. Well, here's the thing. in the pond Lipovljani in the area of the same-named municipality that extends to the area of 650 hectares, it was once an example of a model fish grower built by the most modern principles of the profession, known for its high quality carps – unfortunately it stopped working in 31.12.2006. And there used to be 80 wagons of carp each year. The Lipovljane pond concession is '98. years of Croatian forests – fish farming Lipovljani for a period of 14 years. The concession was allocated for the purpose of growing fish in closed fish waters of 650 hectares over a period of 14 years to 10.12. this year. On 1.01.2007, the pond Lipovljani became an integral part of the Lipovljani forest because the working unit of aquaculture was then abolished. At that time, the management of the Zagreb forest and the representatives of the Lipovljani forest write to their superiors in Zagreb to suffer daily losses and demand that the concession contract in question be terminated. To this day it wasn't done. So they're still, like, six years of losing. But I'm sure the new management of the Croatian forests will change that. When the importance of the Lipovljani pond is known, for local and regional levels through the filling of the concession budget, and the new employment and creation of the newly created value, then we think it is possible to look at the size of this problem. Mr. Lucic tried to transfer responsibility to the former head of the administration coming from the HSS ranks. However, I will say here that there were members of the HDZ in the administration, and the Supervisory Board was led by a representative of the HDZ. So we think that any reduction in income, or taking someone’s incomes, is difficult at the beginning. However, when it seems to be in good faith and the desire to increase the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, not because of increased consumption or coverage and consumption, it is understandable. Especially in the case of Croatian forests which have huge natural resources and make extremely large revenues, of more than 2 billion kuna per year, but it is unfortunate that with so much income they make an annual profit of only 20 million kuna, and so many are the resources with which the masters are unused. Following this, I hope that the new administration of the Croatian Forests will change that and therefore I will support these amendments to the Law on Forests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4919	Thank you very much. We have a single replica on your display. Dear Representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4920	Thank you. Well, here's the thing. A colleague's got a pretty good point. I mean the problem. Croatian forests like something he said are national wealth. Yes, Croatian forests are national wealth but Croatian forests d.o.o. It's not national wealth, it's a company that needs good and quality business. He pointed out what I was pointing to, in fact, internal problems of the company itself because the problem of bad governance cannot be solved by increasing parafiscal pressures and resolving the problem of poor governance by additional burdens on the economy. And therefore, such a measure burdening the economy should be an invitation to those who will manage the Croatian forests in the future to make this reduction in the financial revenues of the Croatian forests that will be almost 10% used to actually exploit their internal reserves. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4921	Thank you very much. Let's move on. The next one was reported by a respected representative, Đuro Popiac, for 10 minutes. He's not in the hall. He loses his right to debate for 10 minutes on this subject. The next respected representative, Ruza Tomasic, is also not in the hall. He's losing his right to debate under this bill. Dear Representative Boro Grubisic 10 minutes for his debate. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4922	Yes, as counterpart Djurovic says, and use the internal cuts of Croatia's forest. Otherwise, as someone said here, coverage of the entire Croatian territory of 50 and 4,5 thousand square kilometers is 40 per cent covered in forests. Of course, most of it is owned by the Croatian state, so Croatian forests, a small part of private property. Just as the forests are one of the resources of this country and this people, so is the water that someone also talked about about quality, etc. Water and air. But first of all, water and wealth are the water that we are 5 to. In Europe or even in the world, one of the richest countries. Unfortunately, both wealth is not in the position of saying better, prosperity, progress or better life for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian people. What this measure that we are discussing today as OKFŠ is, in fact, compensation for the generally beneficial function of the forest and in the amount of let's say the controversial today in this debate, which is about 180 million kuna or slightly less than 10% of the total income of the Croatian forests actually means. I also spoke in replicas about how bad the lords of the Croatian forests are. I also received numerous calls about when someone here was talking about that the average salary in Croatian forests is 5 thousand and 6 hundred kuna as a good salary. And we need to look at and see here there are no former ministers and those who are responsible for it, what is the salary of the cutler, and what is the salary of the revoir, manager or even, and above all, the manager in the Croatian Forests. When I talk about those who are the most numerous, and these are the cartilagers and those by the complexity of the business, I would say the lowest, by complexity, but by physical work and not the weakest, but the strongest; then she threatened for a time to say the rebellion or strike of such workers in the Croatian forests. But given that today's job is to have any real wealth and I'd say the privilege almost didn't go on strike, but they complain because their salary is to say criminally small, just almost at that Croatian minimal, which is sad. So the distribution itself or some kind of systematicization that was made is completely unfair. But that's why those who have achieved their own good pay systematization, some of them, in order not to be misunderstood, say that the 500 million kuna "Dnevni hr" has disappeared in 2010, 11. For years, he says, "How much is missing when you compare the number of average hives" what is... The twilight and... [[You don't understand.]] which shows business reports of Croatian forests, and even so much when it comes to selling quality wood below the price, which is 500 and 500, billion kuna. [[You don't understand.]] Well, now we're stuck here in a debate over the 186 million kuna. Croatian forests should be the basis for the wood industry. So that's if we're talking about a poor base, then it would have to be a big support and a secondary base, and that's the wood industry, and even that, and even that, we have that and the tertiary part that can then be, have a big rest of the income, a good rest of the income, and our wood industry has proven and we have data from 20 years ago when it's over, and I say, in Slavonia almost every town has a wood industry. There is no more wood industry in Pakrac, in Okukani, or in Gradišca, or in Slavonski Brod, has never recovered within that range as it was before the war, or in Oriovac, therefore, and almost every municipality today, a small town or a larger village also had a wood industry from which they lived and lived and lived citizens in the area, workers in the area. What happened and what happened? Can't we have this resource that's so significant that we're talking about today in praises from forest wood mass to the beauty of water, air, ponds in the Okucani, and from hunting, then fungi after all, and ultimately tourism? All these are opportunities and economic or sub-economic branches that could provide and could have Croatian forest revenues. Given that this KEFŠ fee is a 50% or about 180 million kuna reduction, I think what Djurovic said there are reserves, not that there are reserves. Good management of Croatian forests can lead to the fact that this KEFŠ is not necessary. About what is happening today in forests and in the forest, and about the receptions to work that we do not talk about and how and how people are received for service in the Croatian forest is one special story and another. And about the fact that official hammers are also borrowed to some private forests, there are also data that they are finished even though they are not allowed to end up in private hands and can't "wait" trees that should be excessively, not shelling as they say and accuse of Knin and not exaggerating as they say about the sea, but excessively performing wood mass. We have an example in Slavonia in Djakovština where it happened. That's what you've got whistles and everything. I wouldn't want to move those things, there's someone to pull it. So, the HDSSB club and we will personally be for this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4923	Thank you, too. At your hearing, we have a report of a replica. The Honorable representative of Đurjica twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4924	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. The debate goes in another direction at all times. You talk about some thefts all the time. I do not defend it, of course I do not defend it, in this case I want to defend the profession and I want to defend the respect of science and I want to say at the beginning of my debate I was saying that I am not talking about Croatian forests d.o.o. I'm talking about forests in Croatia. How are they preserved, and why do they have worldly recognitions? Well, I guess that's because someone took care of them. What's going on in some companies I'm saying again about. And as far as the BOX is concerned, I'm in favor of keeping them this way from being abolished. To do with them in reality what has been done so far, that it is properly available. Now let me tell you something, for example. In the last 5 years, it means from 2007 to 2012 INA has paid 76.4 million to share it all with 5, that I am not doing it now, HEP 39 million, Konzum 34 million, Privredna banka 15 million kuna, Zagrebačka banka 21 million kuna, HEP 12.4 million kuna. It's interesting all of this I read to you that most of these still listed are not in Croatian in reality majority companies. Why don't they pay this fee? Why don't we pay when they're actually using poop this resource forest and everything that it does in reality is exploiting. They need to pay for it not just them. I still say in economic recovery measures the office needs to reduce something, but in which way this money will be compensated, in which way it will invest in demining, in fire, in cleaning and deforestation and in the birth of roads. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4925	Thank you, too. Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4926	Mrs. twilight, I wouldn't mind if the big systems had to say a higher rate or a higher fee. I hope that perhaps the coalition that is in power will come to such an idea. I have time to change the law. Thank God if it turns out to be ineffective or not to show up good. But hundreds of thousands of small craftsmen burden the fee. Therefore, we cannot say what they say either by their grandmother or by their uncles, but someone will benefit from such a large amount. And secondly, you were talking about science in forestry and in Croatian forests, so you know that you said yourself, that only 2.5 million kunas stand out from these former 350 for science. Yes, you said 2.5 in your presentation there. Well, that's a terrible investment in science, if that's what it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4927	Thank you very much. We're moving on with a ten-minute debate. Dear Representative Zvonko Milas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4928	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Madam Deputy Minister, Mr. Assistant, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the debate that's already been said about and against the cuts so I don't know where I'm going. However, I had a meeting with the pyrotechnics union, and since this is the population I come from, and since I acted briefly as president of the Republic of Croatia's Mine Action Alliance, I am obliged to say something about demining itself. So the negative impacts that the reduction for the OCFŠ might have in demining the Republic of Croatia are evident. And as my colleague Djurovic says, I would be most fortunate to pass some legal burden that will once and for all resolve the issue of demining in the Republic of Croatia. The basis of the thread of the guidelines proposed amending the law is the discharging of the economy, which in itself is positive. However, if it happens in a way that systematically other forms of economy that depend on it are not solved, then it is a failure of the system. In this case there may be a breakdown of a system called demining activity, which you will have to believe me to have unspeakable consequences. We all know what the problem of mines means and this is definitely a question of the national interest of the Republic of Croatia. How are the Croatian forests involved? So they participate in demining in a financial amount greater than all other public enterprises combined. In the last year alone, they invested in the demining of about 75 million kuna, and these other companies, of which 20 leading legal transactions, are therefore 13 too heavy if not entirely foreign-owned, believe me from personal experience that when you come to them and seek donations to demining the Republic of Croatia, it is more like begging, honoring exceptions than talking. If the funds for this activity are reduced by such a change in half, and since as much as I have seen in the deiure budget, the demining budget for 2012 will definitely mean that the work of the pyrotechnician can last until the summer of this year. After that, there is a shut down of the company, the layoffs of people where the employment problem will then be sought by about 1,000 people, mostly by volunteers, defenders from the Homeland War. And I hope we don't solve this problem the way we handle the dairy problem. There is no need to mention how specific this activity is, how much work is ahead of them, or how much mine space is a problem for Croatia in social, security, economic and in any other sense. In addition, Croatia is a signator of the Ottawa Convention, which has committed itself to demining its territory until 2019, and with such financial dynamics believe it will not succeed until 2029 because demining seems unfortunately to be some sort of, as I would say, third or fourth league. Finally, it is important to point out that the mine problem prevents the management, exploitation of new forest surfaces, which triggers further negative economic trends in the water economy, construction operations, especially in the wood industry. So not every reduction is positive if it's a discharge. In this case called demining, it is unfortunately a burden. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4929	Thank you, too. We have a report of a replica of your exposure. The Honorable representative of Đurjica twilight. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4930	Thank you very much. My colleague, I fully agree with your debate, especially in this section when you talk about demining. I'd just like to add that it's not true that, as in the debates, that's part of it, it's investing in scientific research, it's not 2 I don't know how much he said before, but 10.2 million kuna is being invested. Like what? For the sake of such, I will now remember not to tell everything, but let's say there is a network of ecological forests in Croatia. I must say that we are among the few in the world that we have, which means that the damage to the forest is being monitored, surely my colleague knows what I'm talking about and that's something to congratulate Croatia on. Different scientific works of a type of flood forest, let's say it's something that's unique, which isn't everywhere, which only exists with us. And so thousands of other things, thousands of scientists doing that, but I'd like to welcome at least this most of what you've been saying is demining. It's like everyone forgets what it means for Croatia and what it's good for.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4931	Thank you very much. We're moving on with a ten-minute debate. Dear Representative Petar Baranovic. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4932	Your Honor, Mr. President, the Honorable Deputy Minister, the Honorable Assistant Minister, the Honorable Ladies and Gentlemen. I will very briefly look back perhaps most on the course of the debates so far and on all the arguments pro and counter which are presented in this assembly. When it comes to this bill before I start talking about other things, I'm going to look back at demining. If demining in Croatia depended exclusively on this decision discussed today in the Croatian Parliament, then I would likely have the same position as my colleague. Croatian society must commit itself to this process and the Croatian government in a very serious way through the corrections of some other laws, but also through the withdrawal of certain moves in the management of resources which Croatia has all in order to allocate sufficient resources to ensure the continuation of the demining process because we are all in this room certainly aware of how important this is. However, speaking and putting into some fatalist context this decision, and ignoring the fact that the total income of the Croatian forests in the past year was 2 billion 272 million kuna, to argue that there is no way to compensate through the activities of the Croatian forests this lack, and it is a reduction of only 5% to 6%, I do not hold this little water. I note that some colleagues in the assembly have certain different opinions that I naturally appreciate. Every public company in the Republic of Croatia, my personal opinion, and my party's position, has a few percent space for business rationalization without any more serious sense of functionality and operationality. And if we are not aware that this area of rationalization through the political decision-making of this assembly we must ensure that we are irresponsible to our own citizens. I was also fond of the discussion of former minister, counterpart Peter Cobankovic, whom I expected such an intrinsic debate. Of course he has stepped in defense of Croatian forests and green rentals and it is not bad that green rent exists, but it is one of 240 parafiscal duties in the Republic of Croatia. By reducing that rent by half, we release 100 and something million kuna. Let's play some elementary mathematics, and we will realize that on the burden of the economy in Croatia and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia we have put intolerable burdens which the economy in Croatia no longer can draw, it exhales, and there is no saying that it is conditioned for a more serious investment cycle that the former government has been wishing for and on which this government is relying. Listing all useful functions of Croatian forests is a matter of knowledge of biology and environmentals. I could talk about the benefits of the Adriatic Sea, about the importance of the Adriatic ecosystem and even about how much oxygen the phytoplankton produces in the Adriatic Sea, and these would be expert discussions that do not interest this Assembly. What interests him is that there is no blue rent, there is no rent, and there is a Croatian economy from all over Croatia, and no one has wondered if any funds should be allocated that would be maintained by the ecological system of the Adriatic Sea in an appropriate condition. One day when he exhales, when he exhales both fishing and mariculture and tourism at the expense of it, then we'll all yell out. In the end, Croatian forests are a public enterprise which, in the perception of those who observe it, gives a little more attention to the impression of a fairly well-standing community and environment. A large part of the funds are collected along the Adriatic coast. Let us not forget that the huge traffic of entrepreneurs through tourist activities, through other activities that are in the coast. And it would be interesting to take a tour of our Croatian representatives through forests, pine forests or what remains of them along the Adriatic coast, to see how these forests are maintained. They are not maintained or maintained so sloppyly and so partially that it is a national disgrace. Therefore, Croatian forests as well as all public enterprises should be given a clear task both from this Parliament and from the Croatian government to contribute to a better and more rational work of financial consolidation of the Croatian state. They have to bear their share of the burden, and we have to go further by discharging the economy from parafiscal burdens. For these reasons, the Croatian People's Party and I will personally support this Act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4933	Thank you very much. And the last registered representative of the Bozidar Kalmeta. Your Honor, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4934	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm not gonna support this bill, because I think there's gonna be more damage than benefits. Thus, by reducing these parafiscal burdens from about 150 million kunas or 160 million kunas that would relieve the economy. On the other hand, it's going to get lost, and here I'm just going to say three measures here that I think are important and they're very important to the economy. First, the funds for fire protection will be reduced, i.e. for firefighting, i.e. the funds that serve exclusively for the purchase of fire equipment for both county fire communities, such voluntary fire companies, and I also told the fire departments. And we know that this problem can be huge. In the summer of the fires, when the fires occur and the tragedies, unfortunately, that we all have been given every single one, every single one of us, every tool that serves to protect us from the fire, is very welcome. And we know that these funds funded nearly 20 million kunas last year for the fire departments. Now I guess that amount will either be halved or smaller. And I don't think that's good. That's one reason. Another reason will be clear and less money to raise new forests after the fire, so after the fire destroys the woods, but there will be less money for forest roads. Forest roads are certainly important for fighting fires when that happens. But these forest roads had another function that a lot of surfaces thanks to these roads were open. People have come to their olive groves that they could not get to in particular on the islands but also on the coast. So it was all tied up. Now hectares and hectares of olive groves have been put back into operation because they have been breached, open these forest roads, not to say that many agricultural surfaces of new ones have opened up thanks to these forest roads, and now it will all be clearly less. So, and there, that one, and that's economic activity. What is agriculture but the primary branch of the economy. Agriculture is the primary branch of the economy. So there will be fewer such activities. And thirdly, not to list everything else that my colleague Milas was talking about, we today have about 740 kilometers of more square mined area in Croatia. And most of those areas are under the woods. I think it's even about 60%, and the rest are mostly agricultural areas. The yearly demining demining seems to me to be about less than 300, about 270 million kuna. Most of these funds go from the state budget. But considerable resources are being allocated here and from this general useful function of the forest of income for the general useful functions of the forest. And that was the past, so there were 74.7 million kunas. So of 270 million 74 totals how many five million kunas of demining money came right out of this fee. So that part will be slowed down, and when we read the state budget, we saw that the demining funds were reduced there, so the Croatian Democratic Community club gave one amendment. That's what tomorrow will be about when the vote I assume is on the budget. So then we see that by looking at the state budget and looking at these reduced demining assets here, that this activity is going to be smaller anyway. Therefore, what I said at the outset will be more damage than benefits, because what will be obtained by reducing the parafiscal burden and discharging the economy. On the other hand, the economy can very much lose. Here's for these three reasons not to add up, I'm certainly against this bill of law. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4935	Thank you very much. And the closing word of Deputy Minister of Agriculture, the esteemed Snow White Spanish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4936	Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I'd just like to repeat what Mr. Minister said about the amendments to the Forest Law because I see there's been a little misunderstanding, so I'm going to repeat the material. Namely, the Ministry of Agriculture is aware that the consequences that the reduction of this burden would have on the entire activities within the Croatian Forests and therefore, by analysing the distribution of these funds so far, we have seen the possibilities for their redistribution, i.e. an additional and fairer determination of the priorities of the allocation of funds. In doing so, of course, we will take care of demining as one of the top priorities and we have not talked about reduction. This is the total amount, and this will be kept in mind by the Ministry of Agriculture when setting priorities. The redesign and reconstruction of the Croatian forests as well as the Ministry of Agriculture will make more significant savings in the business and activities of the Croatian forests and thus will try, not to try, but to compensate for this OkFŠ in terms of helping the economic recovery, which is also the direction of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Relatedly, I am sorry that there is no Mr. Cobankovic and Mr. Kalmeta here, but they have not read the IPARD programme, or programme adopted by the European Commission in 2008. As part of this programme, there is a measure of fire roads and multi-functional roads where users are able to connect agricultural zones through these fire roads. It means abandoned olive groves, abandoned vineyards with the aim of preventing fires, but also to bring those areas into function where they are. The additional fact is, if we link the law that was related to the units of local self-government and the reductions that hit them, it is that through this measure the funds can use local self-government units of 100% investment. Well, I'm sorry they're not here so we can hear that information. It also means that the last National Forest Strategy was adopted in 2003. After that, no strategic document was adopted in the area of forestry. This resulted in the absence of, unfortunately, any measures aimed at forestry within the rural development programme. First of all, I'm talking about very popular agrophoric measures, so if we're going to talk about science, about measures that are dedicated to the cultivation of rapidly growing species with the aim of producing biomass associated with investing in biowaste heat. A very large part of things have been missed, but we will try to fix this part together with the new team as soon as possible and in the course of this year we will bring a national forestry programme in which we will create a basis for defining measures within the framework of forestry, which together with agriculture will form one of the backbones of rural development through diversification of economic activities, through investment in traditional crafts, through investments in processing capacities, etc. I therefore call on you to support the proposed Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Forests because we, the Ministry of Agriculture and the Government, believe that the benefits that will result in will be greater than the possible adverse effects for which we have prepared alternative solutions that you have had the opportunity to hear about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4937	Thank you, too. This is what we have exhausted the lists of persons reported for discussion under the proposal of this law. About the amendments and... All right. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We're closing the debate. No amendments, I've been warned of that by the secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4938	We move to a statement on the final proposal for a law amending the Law on Forests, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 46. The debate is closed. And I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get involved and vote. So, the proposal for a forest law for those who haven't heard well or shortened the forest. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes, 83 votes in favour, 36 against, 7 abstentions, have been passed by the Law amending the Law on Forests in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4939	Then let's move on to the next item of the agenda. It is - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 39 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The motion for an act, you've received the bill into the boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 164(4). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the final draft law was carried out by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Local (area) Self-Government, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy and the Committee on Tourism. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? There's the Deputy Minister of Culture with us, Professor. Borislav Shipush. Does he want to? Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4940	The Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, the Honorable Ladies of Representatives and the Gentlemen of Representatives. Just one little correction, Berislav.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4941	Excuse me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4942	Here are some information on the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods. Under the measures and guidelines for the production of the 2012 budget, the obligation to reduce non-taxable duties is indicated and the Ministry of Culture is obliged to carry out activities relating to the reduction of indirect monumental rent as charges burdened by economic operators. The Act on the Protection of Cultural Goods, inter alia, regulates the way in which measures to protect and preserve cultural goods are provided, where one of the instruments for the acquisition of funds and the monumental rent that the law shares on direct monumental rent is governed by Article 114 and the indirect monumental rent is governed by Article 114a. The basis for the calculation of indirect monumental rent is the total revenue obtained by carrying out the prescribed economic and other activities according to the National Classification of Activities, and is paid at a rate of 0,05% and of this indirect monumental rent in 2011 total of 57 million 141 thousand 586.80 kuna. The collected funds can be used exclusively to protect and preserve cultural goods, sharing funds between the Republic of Croatia, cities and municipalities. Of the funds raised, 40% are paid to the state budget, and 60% are paid to the budget of units of local and regional, or regional self-government. On behalf of the indirect monumental rent, the Ministry of Culture had 25 million budgets available last year. The proposed amendments to the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods and Amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia reduce the list of activities covered by the National Classification of Activities to which provisions on payment of indirect monumental rent apply. Only activities which have no difficulty in business and which record profits in business are covered. They're for example. trade in large tobacco products, trade in large perfumes and cosmetics, retail trade in specialized shops, telecommunications other than the maintenance of communication networks and transmission of radio and television programmes, monetary intervention, auxiliary activities in financial services other than insurance and pension funds, gambling and betting activities. This excludes the activities of hotel-like accommodations, restaurant activities and other facilities for the preparation and use of food, the activities of travel agencies, travel organizers, the activities of large-scale food and drink shops, trade in large-scale flowers and seedlings, air transport of goods, service activities in relation to land and air transport, taxi services and other activities located in that Article 114a listed under that national classification of activity. The proposed amendments to the law shall enter into force 1. In March 2012, and remain in force until 31 December 2012, except for Article 1. The law governing the resolution of cultural goods inspectors by competent authorities, i.e. Conservation departments of the Ministry of Culture and the City Institute for the Protection of Cultural and Nature Monuments in Zagreb. There, so much for these amendments and additions to the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4943	Thank you, Professor. Berislav Šipus, deputy minister of culture of the Government of Croatia. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yeah. The Tourism Committee. Honorable representative Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4944	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister. I would like to inform you that the Committee on Tourism of the Croatian Parliament has considered the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and the Completion of the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods with the Final Proposal of the Law as an interested working body. Following the reasoning of the motionors our Committee has heard carefully, which indicates, among other things, that the implementation of the measure is to reduce non-taxable givings, the Ministry of Culture as the holder of this proposal proposes to adopt amendments to the Law to be abolished so-called. Irregular monumental rent. This proposal would temporarily abolish the payment of indirect monumental rent, i.e. rents on the basis of carrying out economic and other activities according to the national classification of activities with the aim of contributing to the empowerment and development of the Croatian economy through the disbursement of the non-taxable burden of entrepreneurs and investors. We have also been informed that the applicant is ready not only to agree with the Legislative Committee, but also with the announced amendment applicant that this proposal in the section relating to the abolition of indirect monumental rent is actually applied with a temporary character, i.e. up to 31. December 2012 Years. They also informed us from the Ministry of Tourism that they would like to access this topic, so the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods itself with some more serious proposals for future changes so that the system of billing and collection of monumental rents is corrected on the basis of previous experiences and real effects in the application of this law. It should be said that both representatives of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce also agreed with this proposal by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, believing that this will contribute in its way to abolishing non-taxable duties and fostering the development of the economy. However, it should be said, and that is what the members and members of the Committee pointed out that the introduction of the 1990 memorial rent is. For years, there was a response to the war-broken and damaged cultural heritage of the Republic of Croatia, since they could not find sufficient resources then estimated at around 350m euros of direct damage to buildings, therefore, cultural heritage. In the debate, the majority of the Committee members supported the fundamental intensity of the proposing to assist certain targeted measures in the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia and, of course, the announced commitment was that this measure would remove indirect monumental rent would be temporary and that an analysis of the impact of the proposed solutions would be carried out in order to determine the possible need for the extension of this proposal to abolish the indirect monumental rent or to remain such a solution. It is also pointed out that the systematic concern about the protection and restoration of cultural monuments, i.e. the preservation of Croatian cultural heritage as one of the most important brands of Croatian tourism, is extremely important for the development of Croatian tourism. The state and unit of local self-government will lose this measure without part of the revenue explicitly stated by the law. However, the lack of these funds will have to be compensated wherever possible from regular budget revenues. In this regard, it is good that this proposal allows for the further functioning of the so-called ‘proposal’. direct monumental rents and that it does not come under investigation, since this system has already suffered several times the changes that have led to a constant decline in total revenues on this basis. However, it is important to maintain the principle that economic operators earning from cultural heritage in a direct or indirect manner should allocate certain resources for its maintenance and preservation. It is particularly important to bear in mind that a good part of the current payment obligations so-called. Indirect monumental rents from highly profitable economic activities such as telecommunications, exchange offices, banks, casinos, etc. On the other hand, the fact is that the elimination of indirect monumental rents will, since this year there will be no reduction in VAT rates, but it has even slightly increased in tourism as well as in other activities, at least partially relieve key economic operators contributing to the development of tourism. It is noted that by removing indirect monumental rents for slightly more than 50 million kunas a year, the total mass of funds that are spent in a good part and to perform very sophisticated conservation and similar works for which only some of the so-called "supervised" works have been trained. old crafts and crafts. It's something special to worry about. On the basis of the debate, the Tourism Committee of the Croatian Parliament decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Amendments and the addition of the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4945	Thank you very much. Do other reporters of other committees want to take the floor? If not, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. We start with clubs in the Croatian Parliament. The first is the Social Democratic Party Club of Croatia, not Croatia. Who's that? Damir Caine is this, IDS. Okay. The first is club IDS, respected representative Damir Cain. Thank you very much. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to argue on behalf of the club. The second is the HDZ club, the respected representative Jasen Mesic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4946	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. I will actually start from the end of the 1990s when, after the end of the work of the National Commission for the Assessment of War Damage, it was reported that the direct war damage in the Homeland War on cultural heritage, so direct, indirect, was about 350m euros. At that point, it was necessary in some way to find an opportunity to finance the restoration of these cultural goods, while in a certain way, in a part of the economy, the awareness that cultural heritage is actually a resource. Since we had more than 2,000 destroyed monuments of total damage, the Monumental Rent Act actually came to life after 2000 and the regular collection of the monumental rent began after 2000. What is very important to point out is that the monumental rent by definition has an obligation to be from the local community, either from the Ministry of Culture further invested in the protection of cultural goods. Therefore, it itself is reinvested either in the restoration of cultural goods and naturally benefits or specialised companies that are licensed by the Ministry of Culture to work on cultural goods or benefit from traditional crafts which, through certain jobs, thereby earning profits and indirectly contribute to the state budget. What would be very good is that here were representatives and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy and also the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts because and what we had on the boards to discuss, you will remember that I was very critical of abolishing the memorial rent based on income. I am pleased to see that in the amendments, in a certain way, accepted what we voted against on committees and I am sorry that we were unable to adopt on committees. No one can convince me that those 57 million that were collected from the monumental rent in 2011 will really be reinvested by telecommunications, banks, exchange offices, shops, and in a way that if the monumental rent per income remains then in any case it will be invested. It is no greater contribution to the economic initiative and economic recovery. I do not want to further question what kind of investment in cultural heritage is, what a benefit it is for Croatian tourism. After researching Travel magazine last year, 56% of tourists choose their destination by natural and cultural beauty. So it's about one so authentic, so strong brand in terms of tourism promotion that no other recorded video can be. We were aware earlier in the previous term that because of the economic crisis in the Republic of Croatia, we had to reduce the memorial rent in a certain way. By amending the law in 2010 you will remember that we have reduced the monumental rent per square of business space either in the immovable cultural well-being, or in the protected urban historical unit. We reduced the scale then and gave the possibility to the local community, so to municipalities or cities, that they themselves set out which turn and which economic activities they want to free, which they want to free from double payments and which economic activities they do not have to pay on that scale from 1 to 7 kuna the maximum fee. Some local communities have opted for the biggest, some have decided for the least. What is also important to say is that these amendments to the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods are completely excluded from production and processing activities. In addition, in these changes, it is entirely excluded that flatulent which was charged when cultural heritage was used for marketing and promotional purposes. Try to record a promotional video anywhere out there. In Rome, Florence, Vienna try and see that it costs you. We shut it down. In order to further highlight the importance of cultural heritage in promoting Croatian tourism. After discussions on committees, I am pleased that in a certain way reason has worked and that a certain way, however, this amendment will benefit most from the Ministry of Culture whose item of the budget for the protection of fixed cultural goods has been seriously threatened by such a first proposal, but it will especially benefit the local community, because it will remain 60% of that amount. Why am I saying that? That's what I'm saying because the new wind in the direction of economic development, and using heritage as a resource, can be achieved. It can be achieved as follows. I am sorry that this is not seen in this year's budget, but it can be achieved by preparing projects at local level which can then be applied to EU funds, in this way. It can be achieved by activating the concession procedure already foreseen by the 2010 amendment of the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods. It can also be achieved in accordance with the Strategy for Economic Use of Cultural Heritage, which was created in the Ministry of Culture. It can also be improved, so-called. concessions at underwater archaeological sites. So this is all the way where cultural heritage if we want to use it as a resource in the new economic development can and must work. Not to the abolition of 0.05% of bank income, telecommunications and trade. This amendment, too, did not make any sense until the end because if we wanted to help the hotels that were threatened, their business in a certain way with a monumental rent, then they had to reduce the monumental rent charged per square because the hotels that were protected by the entire most funds were made because they had a large square of their business space, and not by 0.05 revenues. That would make it easier for them. It should also have been accepted, if some hotels are protected in wholes, let's say Opatija has many old hotels... They were to be recognised under the monumental rent of what they had invested in the restoration of these facilities in accordance with the conservation and restoration principles. [[You don't understand.]] The memorial rent should ultimately not be viewed as merely a means to restore the monument by which individual reconstruction projects are financed. Finally, it must be the initial resource that will, in accordance with the management plans prescribed by UNESCO, be the type of finance that will be able to preserve the cultural identity of certain urban units. Today in towns, Dubrovnik will be remembered by colleagues and colleagues from Dubrovnik, we lose our indigenous population, we lose our indigenous lifestyle both in Trogir and in the Split core, both in Poreč and Rovinj and in Varazdin and in Zagreb. We lose because cultural heritage in itself is not a purpose, cultural heritage is always a product of the way and style of people's lives in a certain space. She's always a material indicator of cultural identity. So if we are earning from cultural heritage in this way, ultimately, the idea of a monumental rent must be to make it easier for those people who live in these environments to live in these environments, so that those environments would one day not be adventures and scenes, but to keep that cultural ethnosity that created them. This should be the ultimate objective of cultural policy related to the monumental rent. So let us be careful next time we want to help the economy, help the Republic of Croatia go through economic recovery. Let us consult the profession, let us worry about it, let us consult the experts of the Ministry of Culture, let us consult the opinion of the Department for the Protection of Cultural Goods, which in this country has a 150-year tradition and try to find the best solution in the public debate. There are also a number of measures that can encourage economic development in the cultural sector. You have an item in the budget called Entrepreneurship in Culture, it has not grown, and it has proved to be the best invested kuna in culture resulting from the employment and launch of private initiatives in culture. In this Parliament, we also unanimously adopted in the last term changes and additions to the audiovisual law, when we agreed together on the return of 20% of those investments coming into the Republic of Croatia to record co-productions. There's no item in the budget. There are collegiate assurances that this was agreed with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy. I'll be glad to see that, too. It's not there. There are no projects other than the project... which has been prepared earlier for EU cultural heritage restoration projects. [[You don't understand.]] We have yet a strategic plan that cultural goods must be preserved and intact, which of the 100th and a fewths of the 5ths must be fully preserved, in which 30 can make a new tourist purpose or some other, and which the other 50 can be given in long-term concessions in order to make private investors use, by opening their visitation rights with the right of the public, can be maintained in a certain way. This is one of the issues of national policies that I see as one of the most important in the coming decades. One of the parts of the policy that will be the most creative in Euro-Atlantic integration in the future will now be the issue of science, education and culture. So I appeal to both your colleagues and your colleagues and to the future proposals that are in this sense coming to us that we have very much in mind. The HDZ Representatives Club is pleased that it is in a certain way, that our discussions on committees have been accepted and that, in a certain way, the amendments have won it. However, we continued to believe that these amendments could have been better in terms of facilitating economic operators and that they should have gone in that direction as they were accompanied by the 2010 amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4947	Thank you, too. The next word is the Club of Representatives of the CNS and the Honorable Representative Igor Coleman. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4948	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear foreign and European ministers, respected deputy culture ministers with a co-worker, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. In the last month, for example, in the very short period of time of this Assembly's assembly, we have brought in the opinion of the CNS a whole series of very high quality measures that are going towards dispersing the economy with the aim of primarily preserving existing jobs, and then in the second step and creating new jobs in the Republic of Croatia. I was at a meeting the other day with a few people in the economy who told me that these measures after a long time actually send a message to the economy that there is one system policy that has a clear and defined goal where it goes and that in this way optimism is actually growing in the economy, and we all know that in the economy other than real numbers and indicators of those accounting and others that it's also optimism or that pessimism is just as important a component in that decision whether we invest, whether we're going to protect jobs, whether we're going to open new ones. Unfortunately, I have to determine that this measure does not fall in line with these most successful ones we have adopted in the Croatian Parliament so far. There are two basic questions to which we must all give an answer together. First of all, whether it is necessary to invest in the restoration of cultural goods in Croatia, and to me, the answer seems unequivocal, yes, of course we do. The second question is whether those who directly or indirectly of these cultural goods should make a profit should participate in investing dedicated funds for the restoration of these cultural goods. It also seems to me that the answer is unequivocal, of course, that they should and there is no dispute. Also, the additional issue and purpose of such a decision, given that the money collected through the memorial rent is actually returned to the economy through these reconstruction procedures that are partly very sophisticated, require a very high level of knowledge that is also very rare today. So this is an offer that if we keep it and develop it we can use at one point and beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia as well as a sophisticated and specific export product and a specific knowledge of how. What's safe and there's also no doubt about it is that we need to find alternative ways to finance the restoration of cultural goods. In this regard, I hope that the Ministry of Culture, together with the Ministry and finance and the economy and entrepreneurship, will find and find additional funding models for the restoration and preservation of cultural goods. Let's say a public-private partnership is certainly one of the models where in some cases a very successful goal can be achieved. It should also not be forgotten and the EU's maximum funds should be used. Some of Europe's richest countries continue to use funds abundantly to restore cultural goods and monuments, preserve, bring various purposes to tourism, cultural, educational, etc. The other thing that is certain is that it cannot happen that the funds are being spent unintendedly, which unfortunately began to happen more and more often, and that is that the funds collected on behalf of the monumental rents were being used unintendedly. So that's not how it can be done. If the economy is asked to pay off the funds, then they must be used for a purpose, and it really does seem to me that there is no dispute that the unintended use of such funds must be prevented. It can also be discussed about the ratio of direct and indirect monumental rents. So one option is to reduce the direct. The second option is to increase the direct, actually the burden of the monumental rent on those who use squares within the monumental units within these cultural goods, so they also make a direct profit on them. That's why she's called original after all. It is also certain that this list of activities that pay indirect rent can also be discussed. Although, only maybe you can argue. Because when that list was looked at, and Professor Shipush talked about it. In fact, these are mostly highly profitable activities that at least indirectly benefit from the fact that Croatia is rich in cultural goods and that they generate both tourism and various other then jobs from which these companies earn their money. However, all these things that I have stated, therefore which may and should be the subject of the debate cannot be replaced by one key fact, which is that in Croatia we need a permanent and relatively predictable and as regards the amount and as regards the dynamics of private funds, a source of funds for the preservation and restoration of cultural goods, which is therefore a monumental rent. Last year we collected 57 million, 141 thousand 586 kuna and 80 limes in the name of an indirect monumental rent. That's a lot of money for preserving and restoring cultural goods. The question is how much this money actually relieves the Croatian economy. On the other hand, I can't help but mention it. We have a Croatian Chamber of Commerce that costs the Croatian economy between 250m and 300m kuna annually. So only 1/6 of the HGK budget would cover these 50 and some million from the indirect monumental rent. We haven't touched it yet. Otherwise, when I mention HGK, one convenient comparison. The British royal family cuts their citizens about £40 million a year. It depends on the exchange rate between 300 million and 400 million kuna. So the HGK budget and the British Royal Family budget are being touched depending on the course. I think it would be a better solution if we had touched the reductions of some artificial court that have been created here in Croatia in recent years and decades, and that we have left these castles, buildings, monuments and all other cultural goods alone, that we have left this monumental rent as one source of dedicated funds for the restoration and preservation of something which is the basis of the identity of Croatians and Croatian states, which is, in the end, in some ways and the basis of our place on the cultural map of Europe and the world. These proposed amendments to the law have this time component, that time limit of 31.12 this year. For this reason, the HNS Club will support this amendment, but with a very strong note that this support stands out with the 31.12 which is stated in this law and that it would be very dangerous in our view to go further and further reduce the risk of such a permanent, dedicated and relatively safe and predictable income for the preservation of the cultural goods of the Republic of Croatia which, however, seem to me to be something that should not be permanently touched. As a measure of discharging the economy for the next 8 months ok. But beyond that, we really think we should transfer the funds somewhere else. Thank you so much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4949	So we're done discussing clubs and we're moving on to an individual debate. The first comes to the word of a respected colleague, Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4950	Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, Mr. Deputy Minister of Culture with an associate, colleague and colleague. Culture is probably the most important and broadest area of general and public interest, clearly except for politics. And that's why I would care, but also the sensitivity of cultural approach must be particularly focused on policy as a guardian, but also as an incentivist for the artistic and cultural development of the state and society. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods directly encourages the launch, improvement of economic activity in cities and municipalities. The law also impoverishes the registers of the Ministry of Culture, as well as the local communities in an important segment of preservation of the protection and maintenance of cultural monuments. We in the HNS are aware of the need to move the economy, thus liberating the economy as many taxes and burdens as possible, parafiscal burdens, and in this direction goes this Law. And we at the HNS think it's important to get rid of the so-called payment. monumental rents must be limited by time. We are convinced that intensive protection of cultural units and monuments is more than necessary. Croatia is a country with rarely large quantities of cultural goods, in this case cultural monuments and cultural monuments. And there are numerous economic operators that work and contribute to and in cultural monuments or cultural monuments using the attractiveness and beauty of these monuments to increase earnings. In order not to confuse some I am for profit, I believe that earning and increasing income is a necessary part of human activity but it is a completely different topic. In the last two decades we have witnessed that the level of protection of cultural heritage is at a shameful level and we have witnessed various devastations of cultural monuments for the purpose of guessing in suspicious economic activities of similar individuals and similar groups. Some of the works of a couple of excellences were preserved exclusively by the efforts of individuals in love with culture and people who understood the irreparability of the devastion of cultural art monuments and works. Systemic protection was carried out at the level of official work, and should be repeated and bowed thanks to individuals, or individuals in love with Croatian cultural heritage. Our ancestors left us with an immense wealth of cultural heritage in all areas of cultural and artistic expression. In fine arts, musical literature, architectural works, theatre arts and all other arts or folk heritage, as well as a specific common heritage. It is the task of all of us to speak more often and more responsibly about the facts of Croatian cultural heritage. The task is particularly educational institutions at all levels to educate citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia in a proper but systematic and unquestionable way. The protection of cultural heritage is and must be a high area of expertise with unreserved support for policy at all levels. It takes large, but never enough material resources to be collected and from those who have the privilege of doing so in or on cultural good. Today, many Croatian artists also work in Croatia or outside Croatia, who also leave works of art that could and should be the artistic and cultural heritage of future generations. And the status of contemporary artists of all areas is a concern for future cultural heritage and that's our concern, but today it's a different topic. Finally, 1 July 2013. Croatia will become 28 EU members. All cultural good members of the EU become cultural good citizens and citizens of Croatia. All cultural goods of the Republic of Croatia also become good citizens and citizens of the countries of Europe. It is clear that the cultural benefits of each country mark the cultural identity of the country's citizens and citizens. The art of Flemish painters is also the art of all of Europe, but with it the best and the strongest are identified by Flemish, modern Flames. It also identifies us as our cultural artistic heritage by joining the EU and promotes our cultural specificities. And we can and should be proud. With its cultural heritage, Croatia's introduction into the EU is a unique and extremely rich artistic cultural heritage. Our culture is so different, so different within Europe. Various strong or less powerful influences of the East and the West, authenticity, the richness of diversity on microunits and the incredible number of artifacts will make Europe's culture and European cultural heritage a much richer entry of Croatia into full EU membership. We must be proud of this, but it also imposes additional responsibility in cataloging, preserving, presenting and preserving our cultural heritage. In the framework of the proposed law, we fully understand the importance of the launch of the dried economy and the firm position of the necessity of the system... The protection of the preservation of Croatian cultural goods, as counterpart Igor Coleman said, will support this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And finally, to protect and preserve cultural goods requires large, but usually insufficient material resources that must be collected from those who have the privilege of doing so in or on cultural goods. Protection and preservation of cultural goods is and must be a high area of expertise with unreserved support for policy at all levels. And that is why we are all responsible in politics directly or indirectly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4951	Thank you, too. At your presentation, we have a request for a correction of an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Jasen Mesic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4952	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With most of the presentations of the esteemed representative Blažekovic, however, I disagree with the part where he said that the last 20 years of preservation or care for cultural heritage was embarrassingly bad. It's the first correction to an incorrect quote, I'll tell you later and why. Another correction to an incorrect quote when he mentioned that caring about the protection of cultural heritage was just bureaucratic work. We have the last 4 years two European awards "EUROPA NOSTRA" in the restoration and conservation of Croatian cultural goods. One was the Rape Cathedral, the other was the famous Apoxyomenos. We have more than 500 restorers and conservatives of various profiles included in the Croatian Restaurant Institute system. We have more than 600 jobs per year on immovable cultural goods and more than 1200 projects on protection of movable cultural goods. We are the first country in Europe to have recorded a number of immaterial and cultural phenomena, and in the last 10 years we have had more entries on the UNESCO list. It's all just not a bureaucratic approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4953	Thank you very much. The next ten-minute debate was attended by a respected representative, Martina Banic. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4954	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. The Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods also regulates the way in which funds are provided for the implementation of measures to protect and preserve cultural goods, one of the instruments for the supply of funds and monumental rent. The memorial rent was introduced due to major war damages during the Homeland War, and with the aim of protecting and preserving cultural goods. The collection of funds from the monumental rent can exclusively be used to preserve cultural goods, where funds are shared between the Republic of Croatia and cities and municipalities. Of the funds raised, 40% are paid into the state budget, and 60% are available to cities and municipalities. As already mentioned earlier, more than 57 million kuna were collected from the 2011 indirect monumental rent, from which more than 25 million kuna of budgets were available to the Ministry of Culture. This money the ministry invested in cultural facilities that were destroyed in the Homeland War, and for example from part of that money the Castle... in Vukovar. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The proposed draft amending and supplementing laws on the protection and preservation of cultural goods for 9 months deletes a provision that requires that the monumental rent at a rate of 0,05% be paid by natural and legal persons carrying out economic and other activities according to national classification activities. Also, according to the proposed law, the monumental rent will no longer be paid by currency exchanges, gambling and betting activities, banks, telecommunications companies – I know Madam MPs, you will hear – and others whose law prescribes it. The introduction of this law as a temporary measure of development and strengthening the economy would not contribute. However, it is good that it is on the Committee on Education, Culture and Science that HDZ members have made an observation that indirect monumental rent should not be abolished, but should be mentioned in exchanges, banks and other activities which are precisely making the biggest revenues so that they should continue to pay that indirect monumental rent. I am pleased that this remark has been adopted and that on our benches we have received an amendment from the Government where paragraph 1 is amended. Article 114a is amended in a way that reduces the list of activities of the national classification activity in which the provisions on payment of indirect and monumental rent apply. Only activities which have no difficulty in business and which record the well-being and profit in business are covered. Cultural heritage is one of the main tourist resources extremely important for the development of an entire society whose economy is largely on tourism revenues, and the monumental rent is the minimum return of roles in our cultural heritage, not additional profits to banks, exchanges, telecommunications companies and other highly profitable activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4955	Thank you very much. No more registered representatives and debates for 10 minutes, so the Deputy Minister of Culture of the Republic of Croatia Prof. Berislav Šipush. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4956	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament, Ms. Foreign and European Affairs Minister, ladies of the Parliament and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here, I would like to thank, above all, everyone who has shown themselves about the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods. As far as the proposals put forward in the form of amendments are concerned, we will consider them and declare them before the vote comes and comes. We hold, however, that by adopting this Law, it will be achieved by its purpose, which is the discharge of the economic operators of some, and at the same time we will try to keep the difference, at the same time, the level of protection of cultural heritage by means which, unfortunately, I must admit, we will collect in a reduced range and scope. I will look back on just a few sentences of Mr. Mesic's honourable representative as regards natural investment and reconstruction, and of course some capital facilities that the Republic of Croatia should complete or start to end. It is true that some arrangements have been reached and talks will begin through the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance on a new investment cycle. If it was really about... Then we mention that next Wednesday, February 29th, the construction of the Museum Museum in Mali Losinj begins. [[You don't understand.]] This really means an important investment for that monument and cultural well-being. As for the incentives that Mr Mesic mentioned in the audio-visual industry, we will also hold next week's discussion at the Ministry of Finance, because the Ministry of Economy is precisely about this category of promotion there seems to me in these ministries and we believe that this year we will already provide a quantity of funds that we will already be able to encourage foreign investors to enter Croatia. As for the relations between the budget and the monumental rent, given that I am in this place for about 50 days then I would still have to remind myself and remind my colleagues and colleagues, including those who were formerly at the Ministry of Culture that the level, or the level of budgets for the protection and preservation of cultural goods in the Republic of Croatia 4 years ago, was almost if not double. At this moment, from the budget itself, and not from the funds of the monumental rent that enters the budget, so the state budget itself provides approximately 50 million kuna. The amount has been increasingly and more reduced as budgets are likely to decrease, and the monumental rent, too. However, in one period it became a substitute for the state budget and for those resources coming from the state budget for the protection of cultural goods and the preservation of our monumental heritage. And here I believe that after 31.12. it will take of course to have the courage to decide which side to go to – whether it will continue with the trend of redundancy of the economy or whether the state will realise that this level of service of protection – I must say – and the preservation of our goods that is very high in relation to countries in the environment and even if we are talking about Central Europe that it is very difficult to maintain with these funds. And of course, the effects of this law will eventually be temporary and during this law implementation we will see whether the time has come to continue with this implementation and collection on one side of the monumental rent of all the activities that have been paying rent so far, but this will depend, of course, on improving the situation in our economy, and of course on the level of protection of our readiness and cultural goods and heritage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4957	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We have exhausted the list of applicants to discuss the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods. The amendments and the final draft of the law will be declared when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4958	We move to a statement on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, an emergency procedure. First and second reading, P.Z. No. 39. The debate on the text of the law is over. The government of the Republic of Croatia has submitted amendments that have become an integral part of the bill. On the final draft of the law, the amendment was also submitted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture, the Club of Croatian Representatives and the Club of Representatives of the HDSSB, so I would ask the Government's representative to plead. We'll take it in a row. First of all, the amendments of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. Deputy Minister of Culture, Mr Berislav Shipus. Here you go. So, first of all, amendments to the Committee on Education, Science and Culture.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4959	The amendment of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture is not accepted because it is included in the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4960	Thank you. That's one amendment. Does the president of the Committee want to be shown and the representative of the Committee on Education, Science and Culture wishes to be manifested? Should we vote on the amendment or not? No, no, you have to be obvious. Are you asking for a vote on the amendment?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4961	The amendment is withdrawn because it is already included in the second proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4962	Thank you. We are now moving on to a statement from the proposing representative to the amendments of the HNS Representatives' Club. There's two of them. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4963	Yes, they are also amendments that are not accepted because they are included in the amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4964	We're pulling back. We accept the explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4965	I amendment to Articles 5 and 6. All right, here you go. You want to make a statement, you actually need to make a statement on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4966	We're pulling back.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4967	Thank you. So they become immaterial to vote ours. And we have an amendment to the HDSB's Club of Representatives on Article 4. Here you go, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4968	He's not being accepted either. We have one explanation. The income from the monumental rent referred to in Article 114 shall be paid 60 % in favour of the City of Zagreb, i.e. the city or municipality in the area of which the rent is collected and 40 % in favour of the state budget for the achievement of the National Programme for the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods. Therefore, cities and municipalities receive more funding from the state budget and, in addition, the Ministry of Culture, which benefits from the funds of the collected monumental rents, also has the cost of collecting the monumental rent, since it also solves appeal proceedings on the solution to determine the monumental rent for the City of Zagreb area.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4969	Thank you. It's an indication of the representatives of the HDSSB club. Here you go. Mr. Agent Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4970	Here, Mr. President, I am not satisfied with the explanation, since it is another blow to local self-government since the tax has been made so far by the Tax Administration, and this is the opinion and associations of the cities of the Republic of Croatia. So, one thing, there's been a debate about the law, so I don't see this reason if it's been charged so far by the IRS that can't do it anymore, taking 5%, which is why cities would do it for free. So when the state takes it, it's okay, and when it's supposed to take units of local self-government, then it's not good because the state has the same costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4971	Thank you. So we'll make a statement about the amendment of the HDSSB's Club of Representatives. Who's up for the amendment? The amendment was not accepted because it did not receive the required majority. Thank you very much, Mr. Shipush. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get involved and vote. Thank you. I find that most votes, 84 for, 30 against and 8 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4972	Now we move on to the next item of the agenda. This is - The proposal for a Plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2012 The proposal for a plan was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The adoption of the Plan shall be subject to the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law, Article 155 to Article 157. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the proposal was conducted by the Committees on European Integration and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Does the applicant's representative want to add an explanation of the proposal? Yeah. Dear Minister of Foreign and European Affairs Vesna Pusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4973	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. This is the first time in a new review of the plan to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the EU acquis, this is the 2012 plan. As some of you remember this job we have been doing for years we actually started working it in the Croatian Parliament before we started formal negotiations on 3 October 2005. Before that, we have already begun to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the EU acquis and we have done so throughout the years of negotiations. The difference between what's been going on so far and what's been going on since 2012 and it's going to be done and it's still going to be that we have two groups of laws here. One is laws that, or adjustments, harmonisation of laws, resulting from the fact that the European acquis is changing, upgrades, so we are going parallelly de facto with other EU member states. And the other group of laws are those laws that we are harmonising under the obligations that we have taken over the signing of an access contract, so that's what's still in some way part of meeting the commitments and the criteria of the accession process. This plan is information and decision by parliamentarians on the legislative activities that the Government of the Republic of Croatia plans in 2012, resulting from these two commitments. One is de facto already, although we are an observer state but in European institutions we do not have the right to vote yet, but we have the right to participate in the work of bodies and discussions in all EU bodies, it is de facto the same as the tasks that Member States have. In that category I think so in that category of these 55 laws that are in this plan is 28 laws. And in this second category, meeting the obligations made through the accession process and signing an access contract is 27 of those 55 laws. It is obvious that in order to prepare for Croatia to function under the conditions of full membership in the EU, we must in some order follow what is happening with the European acquis and, on the other hand, meet the preconditions for full membership. And that is why the government has developed and adopted the EU acquis for 2012. It is a transfer or transposition programme, as the new legal gains of the EU are written here, as other member states have, which is regularly coordinated with the new acquis. Such a model has, for example, the Czech Republic, Poland, Lithuania and Bulgaria, and some countries have the opportunity to monitor and take over the EU acquis in a timely manner according to its entry into force through specific information systems. And that I hope that we will have in due course and thus be able to function. An integral part of the Government's 2012 programme for the acquisition and implementation of legal property is the plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the acquis. As I said, the plan predicts that this year, in this respect, it changes a total of 55 laws. These are, of course, all the laws that take over the legal property of the EU where Croatia changes its legislation in parallel with Member States in line with the recommendations of the EU Commission and the follow-up of the active monitoring of the development of the acquis by the competent authorities of the state administration. There is one whole series, and when you look at this table, you will see the law, for example, the new Law on Postage Services, will fully take over the EU acquis contained in 3. The postal directive, which means to regulate the full liberalisation of the postal services market, which enters into force on 1 January 2013. Ensuring and providing universal postal services, and determining how to finance the mandatory provision of universal postal services. In the area of the internal energy market you will see when you look at a whole series of laws, it is about liberalising the electricity and gas markets. There is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Regulatory of Energy Activities. Amendments and additions to the Electricity Market Act, the Law amending and supplementing the Gas Market Act, the Energy Act, the Energy Efficiency Act. Therefore, all these laws are in line with the new EU rules. As I have said in this plan are the laws that are passed by a series of commitments in certain chapters of the negotiations on our membership in the EU and which are part of the monitoring and supervision that the EU Commission is carrying out over Croatia until the date of full membership, which is 1.7.2013, so the expected date of full membership which is de facto carried out and can be carried out in all and in 33 of 35, respectively, because they are the other nature of the chapters. However, it is particularly carried out in 3 chapters. This is the most famous chapter in our negotiations chapter 23. Justice and fundamental rights, then Chapter 24. Justice, freedom and security and chapter 8 - Market competition, that's the chapter in which the shipbuilding is. At this point, tables were produced and sent for the first, in a way the first monitoring report that will be published in April by all the categories in which monitoring is carried out, so not only three chapters but also the rest and an integral part of it, of course, is also the adjustment of legislation, so the amendments to the law. Our full or large report, monitoring report is up in October this year. This will be a full monitoring report and will be presented to the European Parliament and the European Council. You probably know that three and a half countries have ratified our accession agreement so far. It is Slovakia, Hungary, Bulgaria and the Italian Parliament's lower home, still waiting for the Senate. So our interest is certainly there and I think it is also very important that the co-operation between Parliament and its executive authority, which he has chosen to promote this project, ratify the accession treaty. However, it is obvious and there are such indications that a whole series of countries will wait for this very report, this large monitoring report or a Comprehensive Monitoring Report that will be in October to access the ratification of our access contract. So from that point of view, this one, and of course, is an important report to us, but that October is particularly important to us. Of course, this monitoring that applies, and this adjustment of the law relating to the implementation of what we have undertaken is, I would say in my opinion, understandable, and it is simply a question of our maturation as state and seriousness and credibility that we are carrying out what we have said ourselves and that we are implementing and adopting laws that we have negotiated and accession process or announced or in some form we have adopted, and now we are still adapting them. In this respect, Croatia must continue to implement the necessary reforms in the context of its EU accession but I would dare say even though, of course, the framework for EU accession. These are the things that Croatia does in order to start functioning as a modern country and as a model of state administration that is efficient, lays down accounts, has clearly defined objectives and ultimately has a clear picture to which these objectives are met in one period and period. The plan to bring legislation into line with the EU acquis in the current year is therefore a plan that gives Croatia a sign that it is ready for active EU membership. The membership thing won't stop. So this kind of alignment with a real living organism called the EU acquis and with those that change there will last for as long as our EU membership lasts. The only thing that will change is that, with our EU membership, we can not only debate as we can now, but also influence the initiatives on which we then create alliances, we will be able to influence some decisions and some of the content that we consider particularly important to us and that Croatian interests are particularly important. So, at this point in time, we cannot influence it, with our voice in terms of raising hands or not, but with our presence and debate, what members of the government who participate in these meetings and do, so we can already influence it, and when we are a full member, we will also be able to do our own initiative and vote. The government, not only would there be some confusion, so after the Croatian citizens and citizens decided on January 22nd with 66% in a referendum on Croatia's EU membership, the government of course prepared a document of the accession contract for final ratification or final confirmation in the Croatian Parliament. The reason why he is not yet with you and is not at the session is the fact that there is a legal obligation to leave a month from the date of publication of the referendum's results in the "National Journal", hence official results, to leave a month for complaints or requests that the results of the referendum be reconsidered. That month stands out on March 2nd. Therefore, immediately after the expiry of that official prescribed deadline, this prepared document for the ratification of the Croatian Accession Treaty will be held at the cabinet session and will then come to your benches and then we will have the opportunity and hopefully the satisfaction that the Croatian Parliament will also confirm the accession contract and thus Croatia will not be the first but let's say enthusiastically in confirming that accession contract, although I must say that in other countries which have ratified it has been ratified unanimously. Not in all but in some and unanimous. Given the key role of the Croatian Parliament in discussing and adopting legislative proposals, the Government is proposing to the Parliament the adoption of this plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the acquis of the European Union. Like I said it would be and it's one job that lasts. In this table that you get if you look at it is provided for in the first quarter of the 9 laws, in the second quarter of the 14 laws, in the third quarter of the 14 laws and in the fourth quarter of the 18 laws. And there are also the obligations of certain ministries with regard to which they must make bill proposals and deliver them here to you. There are leaders by the number of legislative proposals, certainly the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economy, but the whole other set of ministries is obliged to deliver these laws to you. I thank you for listening to me and suggest that you adopt this harmonisation plan, i.e. the integration of European legislation into ours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4974	Thank you very much to the Minister of Foreign and European Affairs. Do the workers want to take a word for it? If not, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. We're starting a club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, Honored Representative Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4975	Thank you, well-respected Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Leko, respected Foreign and European Affairs Minister Mrs Pusic. My dear colleague... and Vidovic Mesarek. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] More than a month after a successful referendum on membership in the European Union today we have the opportunity to discuss another very important European topic in the Croatian Parliament. I believe that the outcome of the referendum in terms of two versus one membership, given all the circumstances, can be satisfied. Most importantly, the referendum gave strong and direct democratic legitimacy to Croatia's accession to the European Union. At the same time, it is quite clear that we are obliged to respect a third of those Croatian voters who voted and who told non-membership in the European Union. It is therefore necessary to continue public debates on all European issues and challenges that Croatia expects as a future member of the Union. In this regard, the proposal for a plan to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the acquis is of particular public interest, as the proposed laws will have concrete legal consequences for Croatian citizens. In this sense, I want to put today's topic in the context of Croatia's broader relations with the Union, which in the period from referendums to membership characterise in my opinion three large processes. It is the first ratification of the Accession Treaty in the Member States. In doing so, we are grateful, as the Minister said, for the three and a half ratifications made to us by friendly states and thus sent a very clear signal and message to other members of the European Union. Also, I hope that we too will have a chance to discuss and confirm the Treaty of Accession very quickly in the Assembly. The second is the pre-accession monitoring of the commitments undertaken by the Commission systematically and in accordance with the Accession Treaty. The third relevant process is a comprehensive preparation of Croatia for membership through consolidation of internal coordination mechanisms, especially the participation and engagement of all institutions and resistors at all levels as an active observer. In fact, the European files ahead of us are significantly broader in scope and reach compared to the previous approach of the work of Croatian representatives who previously had a negotiating optics. It is therefore important to take account of current developments in the Union in the context of the crisis, and in particular of the efforts to address the debt crisis in Greece are nominally dealing with its three major priorities. The first implementation of the Europe 20/20 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth with major initiatives in the field of digital society, innovation, mobility and youth employment, production that is more efficient in terms of resources, industrial policies in the era of globalisation, acquisition of new skills and greater participation in the labour market, and a very important European platform for combating poverty. The second priority in Europe is the negotiations on the proposal for a multiannual financial framework, i.e. the 2014/20 budget. described by Commission President Barroso as an innovative, ambitious, responsible and rigorous with the fact that it is normally balanced characterises it and attempts to simplify legal instruments including a very important financial regulation. The third priority is economic governance, i.e. a government that involves both stronger economic and fiscal surveillance by Member States through coordination of macroeconomic and structural policies, and a step in this regard because the centre is an agreement on a fiscal pact. This includes activities related to the European Semester as well as efforts aimed at ensuring the stability of the euro area, i.e. strengthening the European stabilisation mechanism. Dear colleagues and colleagues, today's topic is most related to the monitoring process and our final preparations for membership. The European Union is a Community of rights, and the process of harmonising Croatian legislation with Union legal acts, regulations, directives and decisions has confirmed this for years. It is this process that is the best proof of the transformative force and the impact of joining the Union on the Croatian legal system, as well as the overall reform efforts that Croatia has made. Of course, harmonisation of legislation is only successful in synergy and by strengthening institutional and administrative capacity to implement it because there are policies behind the law, money stands, priorities stand. The proposed legislative harmonisation plan with the acquis is part of the Government's programme for the takeover and implementation of the acquis, which is comprehensive and, as earlier years, contains activities related to the fulfilment of political criteria, economic criteria and all of these obligations relating to the takeover of legal property from the adoption of laws, sublegislative acts, strategies, plans and other measures, with the strengthening of administrative capacity. This plan has been a confirmation of the continuity of work since 2002 and 2003, and the current National Programme of Accession in the European Union has been modified last year in the context of changed circumstances in view of the end of the negotiations. It is useful to remind that over the past years we have also witnessed a kind of legislative hyperproduction because more than 550 laws have been passed, only in 2008 as many as 120, and over 1400 sublegal acts. On this occasion, I would also like to remind you of a major translation venture that has been systematically implemented by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integrations for the past 10 years, and today European affairs, which refers to the translation of primary and secondary legislation, 107 thousand pages of legal gain, as well as numerous Croatian laws into English in the context of the need for negotiations. In this sense, I would like to commend the efforts of colleagues who, although slightly in the shadows, have worked hard to see the aspect of legal certainty unwritten so-called. Chapter 36 of the negotiations. I appeal today to the successful completion of this work in the months ahead because he has contitiated son qua non to achieve the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the EU. It is known that lawyers and linguists in the institutions of the Union are currently working intensively on the so-called Croatian translations produced by the ministry. In order to complete the translation and verification in a timely manner, it is necessary to strengthen the translation service and provide adequate financial resources. It is also of paramount importance that the ministry secures an active and concrete final contribution of experts from all portfolios in the final verification of the translation of the property into Croatian language. The whole job must be completed in due time in order for the total legal gain to be published in Croatian in a special edition of the EU Official Journal, prior to the entry into force of the Accession Treaty. The EU court's practice will also be translated. The plan ahead of us can be called common ground. Because the work on it began in October of last year, the ministry co-ordinated its construction and together with our colleagues from the portfolio collected their contributions to drawing up the draft of this plan. The legal basis for its adoption is, above all, Article 69. The 2001 Stabilisation and Association Agreement, which speaks of harmonisation of legislation, modelled by similar European agreements on the accession of other countries that gave a long-term direction to these activities of Croatia. But also Article 47. The accession treaty that prescribes Croatia's commitment to previous ratification of the compliance of the directives at the time of accession, which is around 1500. I would like to know how preparations are being made at the level of the Ministry and the Government to carry out that notification. The development of this year's plan is also about the obligations arising from the negotiations and, therefore, a list of 27 laws that are relevant in the context of monitoring is mentioned before us. They are also listed in the report on the fulfilment of commitments in certain chapters or in the final negotiating positions of the EU, i.e. the European Commission report and were part of the monitoring of the tables. As far as I am aware of the current fifth round of monitoring will come another round, and for Croatia is indeed a crucial overall Commission report in October this year. Success in this respect, i.e. The European Commission's positive assessment is linked to the dynamics of ratification of the Treaty of Accession in the Member States' parliaments, in particular the somewhat abstention towards enlargement that announced the start of ratification this fall after they are familiar with the findings and assessments of the Commission report. The plan also includes 28 laws relating to the new acquis. To monitor the new acquis, tools such as the public database EUR-Lex are of course an official list, as well as activities of Croatian representatives in the Stabilisation and Association Committee in its subcommittees and the new role of Croatia as an active observer, which implies the presence of representatives at Council meetings and Committee of Comitology and the involvement in the information extra net system of the Council. In this regard, I would like to point out that at the end of last year, the ministry prepared a new and specific information and communication system that should have been used except for coordinating the position of Croatian restors ahead of meetings of various Council formations and comitology and for improving the system of harmonisation of legislation. I wonder if this prepared and imaginary system has been put into operation? With regard to the further evolution of the acquis, it is important to monitor the legislative programme of work and the adoption by the Commission as well as the legislative programme of the work of the Council produced by the Danish Presidency, which defines the dynamics of institutional co-decision with the European Parliament. In this respect, for Croatia, effective coordination of the portfolio as well as the control role of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs and the very important role of the mission in Brussels is key. I note that intensive dialogue with the European Commission for the upcoming period is one of the key tasks in order to verify the harmonisation of legislation prior to its membership. Before the end of the accession process, it is also necessary to address the issue of integrated EU regulations in the laws that he has passed and still passed by the Croatian Parliament, i.e. regulations incorporated into sublaws. In fact, the regulations are EU legal acts which are directly applicable in the legal systems of the Member States. Therefore, upon Croatia's entry into full membership of the regulation, it will also be directly applicable in the Croatian legal system since they do not normally require the adoption of implementing national measures. Following this, it is necessary to consider the way out of force of those provisions of secondary legislation which so far transposed the normative content of certain regulations. In this respect, and with legal effect from the day of entry into the EU, options can be made for the adoption of a roof law which will put such provisions of Croatian laws and sublegal acts which have been fully or partly taken over by EU regulations or by amending each of their individual regulations by their amendments to be put out of effect. A view should be taken in advance to ensure that the EU-transposition process of the directive continues in the Croatian legal order after Croatia's membership is achieved in the Union. In the Directives themselves, there is usually a deadline for the adoption of implementing measures by Member States in the way they consider it most appropriate. It is the practice of the European Commission to regularly control the national activity of the country's implementing measures, and in the event of non-compliance, it shall first send a letter of warning to the Member States. Statistics in the last 10 years show that members with over 97% of the effect are performing a correct and timely transition, but not always. From the point of view of the improvement of this process, it is necessary to recall the decision of the last government which has made the decision to put a reference to the relevant EU legal act in the text of the Croatian legislative proposals in order to have an unambiguous knowledge of which EU legislation is harmonised by Croatian legislation. It would be useful from these legislative proposals in this plan to perhaps hear from the Minister a little bit about the important Public Sector Payments Act, about the new amendments to the envisaged VAT Act, although we recently had this law in an emergency procedure as well as the Foreign Affairs Act. In light of today's agenda point, and given the strong role of national parliaments in the follow-up to the provisions of the Lisbon Treaty as well as in the context of earlier discussions on parliamentary committees, I hope that we will very soon discuss the proposal for a law that will regulate relations between the Government and the Croatian Parliament in the conditions of Croatia's membership in the European Union. Given the matter and the adoption of that law, it could even be linked to the proposed plan. It is matters of cooperation and supervision, but also of the control of the implementation of the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality, because according to the powers arising from the Lisbon Treaty, any draft legislative acts of the European Union must pass prior supervision in all national parliaments of the Member States, which means the Croatian Parliament. I think we are all aware that the assumption of meeting such a demanding and volume-based institutional legal and political task is by creating a solid legal basis and improving the procedural and professional administrative capacities of the Croatian Parliament as an important actor of the European engagement of Croatia. In conclusion, I would like to say that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the adoption of the proposed Plan to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the acquis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4976	Thank you, too. Next for discussion on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Club of Croatia, respected representative Tanja Vrbat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4977	Thank you very much, dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs, the distinguished minister with co-workers. I am pleased to discuss today this compliance plan with which we continue the good practice of the previous governments of the Republic of Croatia and the previous meetings of the Croatian Parliament. In fact, we have already learned how to bring these tables for many years and they are good practice and in further our work. The table of this proposal for harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the acquis of the European Union is for 2012. A year. It contains 55 draft laws that need to be singled out that some, as already said in previous speeches before me, are part of the new, newly created legal gains of the European Union, so we can boast in the Republic of Croatia that we are in step with the Member States. We can already act in this regard today as a full member of the European Union, and this should be thanked for the great effort and work of the Croatian Parliament in previous meetings as well as for the previous governments of the Republic of Croatia. In particular, it should be singled out that there are a number of legislative proposals in this Harmonisation Plan that will need to be discussed and adopted which remain as obligations taken by the negotiation process. Of these 55 laws, this is about 27 legislative proposals that have been taken over by the negotiation process as a commitment, from the first quarter, and this is about 5 legislative proposals. I would especially single out here for their importance of the Law amending and supplementing the Consumer Protection Act, the Law on Arms, the Law on the Marks of Excellence, the designations of geographical origin and the designations of the traditional reputation of agricultural and food products. We continue under this Plan to bring our legislation into line with the acquis, so the European Union and, on behalf of the SDP Club, I can say that, of course, we fully support this harmonisation dynamic as well as this Harmonisation Plan. On behalf of the SDP Club, I would also like to thank the countries that quickly supported, or ratified, our accession treaty in their parliaments. I look forward to the upcoming very soon debate in the Croatian Parliament on our adoption of an accession contract that will be held very soon, which will end our part of the work, after a very successful referendum. Finally, allow me once again to say the SDP Club fully supports this 2012 legislative harmonisation proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4978	Thank you, too. The next club to talk about this topic is the Club of Representatives of the Croatian People's Party and the Honorable Representative Jozo Radoš. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4979	Dear Mr. Vice President, Ms. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here, after the accession process which was politically very complicated, which had its impasses and with very dynamic harmonisation of the law here in the Croatian Parliament and after this referendum which thus showed a high level of commitment and willingness of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to enter and to see their place in this new framework of the European Union because, therefore, the confirmation that the referendum issue was only a two-thirds issue, and the response was not so bad if citizens who are on the lists of voters outside Croatia were taken away, and who, for their specific reasons not to enter now, were voted only with 3%, although statistical techniques tried to reach a foreign number of voters in the Republic of Croatia, so those who are not present, are then around 58% and not so bad. It's much better than this than 44%, which is official data. So now we're entering a new process and a sign and a profile of this new process can already be seen from this plan. As has already been said, it is two types of harmonisation of the law. One is about the obligation of the negotiating process, and the other is the new parallel alignment process with the current recent changes to EU legislation and it may be important to look at what figures appear here. In fact, the total figure of 55 is already in itself smaller than it has been in recent years compared to some years and twice. And if this dimension of commitments is taken from the negotiating process, which is some kind of backlog, then we remain on 28 laws, which is therefore more multiple than was particularly true in those most intense years of accession, negotiation and harmonisation of Croatian laws with the legislation of the European Union. I am saying this because it also points to a more casual situation where we are in these new circumstances and the need to design this situation in some way to be more quality than it was in the negotiation phase and in the accession phase. What important business is not even to be talked about, I will only nominally specify some laws that are harmonised in 2012 so it can be seen from this, not getting into content, of course because I do not have the opportunity, what important business it is. So, it's about the Energy Act, the Energy Efficiency Act, the Public Sector Payments Act, the Nature Protection Act, the Law on Commercial Society, and it's enough to get these seven laws to see what kind of serious and important business they're dealing with. But I would look back a little on the role of the Croatian Parliament and this very, very complicated procedure ahead of us. In fact, I think it is estimated that the process of harmonisation during the past period of negotiations has been largely bureaucratic and without the appropriate possible contribution of the Croatian Parliament. The laws bearing the label E here in the Croatian Parliament passed without great debates, and the fact that they bear the mark should not be sufficient to in any way avoid monitoring the Croatian Parliament and its committees. Under new circumstances, this shouldn't happen. We have a much more peaceful situation, we have a smaller number of laws, and therefore the Croatian Parliament, and especially its committees, should make a greater contribution in this regard and not only miss out because it is our commitment to these laws, but also give these laws its normative contribution, which, to a large extent, in the Croatian Parliament so far, and especially in the work of its committees who are invited to do so, was not really the case. The Committee for the Monitoring of Negotiations has politically followed the negotiations and given political consent to the process, but other committees of the Croatian Parliament have not made a contribution in this respect, as we can express dissatisfaction with the impact and contribution of the Committee's work, otherwise in the overall legislative activity and other activities of the Croatian Parliament. But in this coordination process, it is particularly important and this level of quality should certainly be raised. If this is known by counterpart Plenkovic to point out that the Croatian Parliament also has a task in previous coordination, i.e. a previous opinion of giving an opinion on the laws or legislative acts adopted at EU level, then it can be seen how extensive the process is. Therefore, the two processes should certainly be harmonised. The previous opinion of the Croatian Parliament on the legislative acts of the European institutions and, of course, harmonisation with the laws already passed in the EU by the EU Parliament or by the EU Council. The second, of course, very important job is the harmonisation of the relations between the Government and the Croatian Parliament, based on this contract which the predecessor also spoke of. So it's a very demanding job. We have more favourable conditions than they were before and it would be good to take advantage of this job, and based on experience from this job, raising the quality of this job in some way raise the overall quality of the Croatian Parliament and its bodies. The club of HNS representatives will, of course, support this plan to bring Croatia's legislation into line with the EU acquis for 2012. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4980	Thank you very much. We're done discussing clubs. We're moving on to a ten-minute debate. First of all, the esteemed representative, Ana Lovrin, came forward. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4981	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister with the co-workers. Here is the fact that on behalf of the club, counterpart Plenkovic has really elaborated the entire matter of EU accession both legislation and this implementation, there is really not much to be added. I'll look back only in that whole process to one part before I say a few words about this very plan of coordination. So, I'm going to look back at the final provisions of the accession contract. We've heard here how important our pre-accession monitoring segment is. We have heard many times from both sides and we have convinced each other, and we know that this is so, that in the negotiations, but throughout the process of EU accession, it is credibility, or not muttering, as you like to call it here, is extremely important and important. So here I ask Mrs. Minister immediately how she will explain how she will explain in the monitoring process, so the fact that this coalition came to power were amended laws which were the criterion in Chapter 23 here I am clearly talking about the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest in the part that regulated the way members of the administration and supervisory committees were elected through the invitations to tender. This was one of the measures of the Anti-Corruption Action Plan and one of the measures of the Anti-Corruption Strategy, and let us not forget exactly that strategy and this action plan was to meet the criteria in Chapter 23. And also a delay in the application of certain provisions of the Implementing Law which was also one of the criteria for the effectiveness of the implementation of the Implementing Act exactly as it was established by that law and we have promised and guaranteed this law and this was one of the conditions for the temporary closure of Chapter 23, so the implementation of this Implementing Law of 1.1.2012. Of course, it will take a good reason why we are not credible in what we promised. But here's what I'm going to do with this coordination plan. Of course, we will support the plan because we are ultimately obliged to bring our legal framework into line with the EU acquis and we have committed ourselves to this and there is a political consensus for this. Finally, there is also the will of the citizens shown in the referendum, and I would disagree with my colleague, Rados, that some specific reasons are never to be spoken of again. They should be talked about why the response of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia outside Croatia was so small, it was small because it was precisely this ruling coalition when the electoral changes insisted that as seats, the polling stations were determined exclusively by diplomatic and consular representations and, of course, that it would not have been impossible because it did not make it impossible for them, but it was far more difficult for them to go to the vote and also for the referendum on those citizens around the world who would have to vote on whether Croatia would be in the Union or not, and it was not a very important issue for them personally at that time, to cross several hundred kilometers. Of course it's been embossed with both cost and time, and so let's just say, let's call it every real name, so that's why there was no response, but of course there are political reasons why SDP and HNS insisted on it, afraid of that electoral body. But here I am now going back to the program, so the programme includes all the laws that need to be amended, and what I would notice is just this sort of schedule, seems to me to be a discrepancy between the number of laws per quarter and the time of the meeting of the Croatian Parliament. I was quick to calculate here, so in the first quarter of the 9th law, we have one month more work, in the second quarter which is the longest for work, so we have the most time, full of three months, there are 14 laws, in the third quarter in which the Croatian Parliament will meet 15 days in 7 and 15 days in the 9th month is 14 laws and in the last quarter where we have 2.5 months of work is even 18 laws. Somehow it seems to me that this could simply be better deployed for Parliament's working time, but well that's not so important, it's a casual and formal remark. What I've also pointed out on the board, but I don't think it's heard it, so here's the schedule of the last quarter, which provides for the adoption of laws on the legal consequences of convictions, criminal records and rehabilitation. I warn you, it's an extremely important law that needs to be passed. The criminal law which we have adopted enters into force on 1.1.2013. We have now passed the Penal Code from that law exempt all the provisions that regulated this matter, so it is necessary that this law enters into force by 1.1.2013. As it is an important matter that has long, long years not been well regulated in the Penal Code, that I do not have time because I do not have time, so I predict that this law will cause an extensive debate, so it would be good not to adopt an emergency procedure so that it may be brought as a PZ, but also because it will be the last time to pass because it will have to enter into force in 1.1.2013 in order to avoid legal void. So here I was suggesting that it would be good for that law, talking specifically about the part of the judiciary, that it would be good to put it in some quarter before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4982	Thank you, too. We've reported one correction of an incorrect quote and one replica. We're going with the correcting of an incorrect quote. Honorable representative Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4983	Ms. Lovrin said that I said I should never talk again about the reasons for the poor response of Croats outside Croatia to a referendum. That was an incorrect allegation. I said that this might not be the time to talk about it because in my opinion, I wanted to point out the great interest of Croatians or citizens of the Republic of Croatia towards the EU and according to the referendum which is certainly positive, and therefore I said that this opportunity may not need to be discussed, and you will find it difficult to hear from me that I say something that should never be discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4984	Thank you very much. A respected representative, Tanja Vrbat, applied for the replica. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4985	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Lovrin, here's my replica so you have a chance to respond. Otherwise, I will personally advocate that we abolish these allegations because they are being properly abused. However, I would also like to react to this part of your exposure as regards the vote abroad. I understand the rate of action in the opposition and the dynamics of working in the parliamentary opposition, but I believe that the European Union is one of the fields in which we always knew how to reach consensus and could negotiate common solutions, and we also worked when it came to constitutional changes. I therefore think it is not right for you to impute the SDP and the HNS today that it has limited the vote abroad to the ultimate and that this has affected the recent results of the referendum. I am personally very sorry that our citizens abroad, above all in BiH, did not, in most cases, go to the referendum. And I agree that we have to question why that was, but I certainly don't think it happened out of some anger towards today's government.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4986	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4987	Thank you very much. Well, Comrade Sparrow, you must have misunderstood me. First, I did not say that the result of a referendum among the citizens of the Republic of Croatia is outside Croatia for today's government because it is there now, so people have obstructed. No, and you don't need to investigate. It's very simple. People spend their time sitting in a car and spending 300km not in Bosnia, but in America, Canada or where to tell if Croatia will be in the Union. And precisely that there is a political consensus on EU entry, and precisely in order to allow for the amendment to the Constitution of the referendum under these conditions under which it was implemented and to allow for constitutional changes that we had to make as criteria for EU accession, we had to amend the Constitution. We agreed to bring the Constitution to 2/3 of the majority. When it's 2/3, the majority means it's practically a consensus. And that you had the opportunity to get a referendum on EU accession and other necessary things to join the EU is the fact that you have conditioned that some more changes be made. You have also made this change clear and loud and we have accepted it so that we can join the European Union together, carry out the referendum and all that needs to be changed in the Constitution. And now don't be surprised why there isn't. We offered a post at the vote, but you were afraid of it, because you said it was your electoral body, so we won't. That's how it was, you know it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4988	Thank you very much. We're moving on with a ten-minute debate. Honorable representative Davor Stier. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4989	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here's to Madam Minister. I'm glad to see you, and I appreciate you coming to the Croatian Parliament. Not everyone from the government who's supposed to be here today, but here's what I appreciate more is that you came here to present a plan to bring our legislation into line with the acquis. As counterpart Plenkovic mentioned earlier, the HDZ Representatives Club will support this plan, i.e. Indeed one joint plan that has been drawn up together. In the last term, the preparations began. You have successfully continued, and it is indeed a quality plan. A number of others, I must also say, have been quality and responsiblely continued, and have direct or indirect ties, of course, to our membership in the European Union. I must say that after the signing of the Kosor-Pahor Agreement and the unblocked negotiations the process of forming the arbitration court has been responsibly continued on your part and a concrete agreement has been reached. Here we are now in opposition, but it should be admitted that it's a good job. On the other hand, of course, it is also necessary to warn of some other segments, although we have a consensus around the European Union. But the fact is that some of the first moves of the new government may not be, or certainly are not against the acquis because there is no acquis communare in it. But they may not be in the spirit of what we did during the negotiations and what the European Commission has also highlighted in all its reports, which is the process of depoliticalising public administration. Unfortunately, it was going in another direction, we were already talking about it in this House. This move, which is headed by an operational unit, which is the administration, is set up not by a professional, career civil servant, but by a politically appointed person, unfortunately, is one mistake, we have reversed, and I fear that in the next report from the Commission, this sentence that Croatia is well continuing with the depolitical process of public administration will no longer be. Of course, it is not a tragedy that in the Commission's reports we have one sentence or we do not have one, but it is bad for us, because we have made changes that we have done not because of the European Union but because of us, it is bad that when we no longer have the pressure so great from Brussels to relax and make such mistakes. It's bad for us and for our citizens. The second area I would like to warn about is also the fundamental values of the European Union. Of course, we also saw a letter sent to Prime Minister Milanovic about the possible abolition of the office dealing with communist crimes by the president of the European Police Party's club. It is, of course, an office passed by law in March 2011, a law passed by consensus, voted by representatives today from the ruling coalition, some of which are ministers today. It is bad that we are now going back to developing this consensus and that there is a suspicion that there is no political will to implement, consistent implementation of the European Parliament's resolution on the condemnation of communist crimes. Of course, we have one amendment. It's not too late. The amendments will be voted on tomorrow. I think it's easy to get around that point. Croatia does not need to reopen these discussions at this time or any fight for a better past. We should continue with that consensus we reached a year ago. And it's actually one consensus based on the acceptance of the European values that you see when threatened then we can only predict what possible conjectures are. Croatia should not today also be debated in the European Parliament whether there is political will or not there is no political will to face our past. Thirdly, I would just like to mention, and my colleague Plenkovic said the same thing in his presentation on behalf of the club is the importance of participating in all European Union bodies, that the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, of course, in coordination with other bodies, ensures that right now we have achieved this observer status that we can make full use of it. Anyway, the plan was well-designed. Once again, I say that is a common plan, and that is why I will personally support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4990	Thank you, too. We have one correction to an incorrect quote and one replica. The first correction to the incorrect allegations is the respected representative Melita Mulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4991	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I would like to correct the incorrect allegations of the esteemed Stier representative concerning the halting of the depoliticalisation process of the state administration. So it's about the fact that when it comes to civil servants, and when it comes to professional progress in the system of state administration, absolutely nothing has changed. What has changed is the political nomenclature in the sense that now ministerial assistants, and deputy ministers are named politically because this is the political government that corresponds to Croatian citizens and which has won the trust. And when it comes to the system of state administration other than the structure that was adopted in the Croatian Parliament, everything else is absolutely the same. If, in turn, progress has been made by civil servants, the Law on the Handover of Authorities is applied equally to these elections so that it remains absolutely the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4992	Thank you very much. A respected representative, Tanja Vrbat, applied for the replica. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4993	Comrade Stier, I must react to the part of your presentation relating to the aforementioned Law on finding and maintaining the graves of victims of communist crimes, of course, those committed after 9.5.1945 as a member of the previous Assembly, I testify that we have discussed this law in two readings in full consensus. Therefore, I invite you all to make a very responsible approach to this assembly and not to argue with low passions and that we really have a consensus on this important issue that no normal one can dispute that every victim should be properly buried and that it should have a necessary memory. Perhaps the fact about the office is that this office is part of the D.A.'s office. Whether it will be so, I believe there will come some proposal in that sense, but certainly not the office to be abolished. You can be there without worry, we'll stick to that law that we, I repeat, and as a SDP club, at that point, we'll support it in two readings without any amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4994	Thank you very much. Replicate response, Honorable Agent Davor Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4995	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's what my colleague said by consensus, the law was passed and the office was created, so it would be okay for this state budget to have an item on behalf of that office, not on behalf of the ministry. If the office is to be abolished later, we'll discuss it when the proposal arrives. Right now, we have this office, it's created by consensus, and it would be good to allocate funds to that very office. It's about this amendment. And of course, as far as these other points are concerned, only very briefly. We'll see what the Commission's report says and see if there's any or no depoliticalisation of the public administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4996	Thank you very much. We've completed the debate by clubs and registered representatives for 10 minutes. Dear Minister of Foreign and European Affairs, final word. Here you go, dear minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4997	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And I really thank everyone for the debate. It was almost hard for me to imagine that such an interesting topic could be discussed on this subject, so on the subject of a simple plan for the realisation and harmonisation of the law. But the debate was actually very interesting and useful. I'll try to answer a few things, I sure as hell won't make it at all, but a few of the things that are mentioned here, and I think they're all relevant. Pre-notification, therefore, of the previous notification procedure to the European Commission. This is one task related to the process of harmonisation of national legislation in the pre-accession period under the prior notification procedure. By 1 July 2013, Croatia will have to submit to the European Commission the lists and texts of all Croatian regulations which are in force at the time of EU accession in our legislation. As you said, it's about a 1550 EU directive somewhere. The notification will be made through the European Commission database. Currently, the commission has developed some kind of test base for Croatia, and in the next period it will also be the screen cover, or interface through which it will be possible to do so. The coordination of the prior notification procedure is designed to designate one person in each ministry or body of state administration who, together with the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs as a co-ordination body, will be notified to all the regulations of each body's jurisdiction. I must say that already under the co-ordination of assistants for European affairs one co-ordinated body has been established at the level of assistants from all ministries precisely so that, among other things, not only that, but this job of notification can be done more effectively and that people know in advance what is being prepared in a particular ministry and at the same time is being kept and some records of what should be prepared so if they are not prepared to warn that ministry on schedules. To that end, it is also provided for the adoption of a specific conclusion by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the implementation of the prior notification procedure and the necessary appointment of these persons in the authorities of the State administration to do the job. And once these preparations are completed, these people from all ministries will be trained to be able to work effectively and the job of notification, or previous notifications, is expected to begin realistically speaking in the second part of April. So let's say that would work. The second topic in which you requested an answer is the information system. For the use of this information system, it is before the beginning of use. Training begins on the second week, March 1st, all representatives designated in front of individual ministries and full interoperability should be 15.03. So you should, in full sense, start working. Regulations, therefore, as you have said, are directly applicable in the Member States. After the accession of the Croatian Regulation, it will not be necessary to transpose into national regulations but will be directly binding on us and will be applicable under our national legislation. To this end, a legal and institutional framework for effective implementation should be provided and competent implementing bodies should be designated, sanctions should be laid down for infringements of the Regulation and the like. The rules for the implementation of the Regulations and this year's harmonisation plan provide for the adoption of two such laws, the Law implementing the European Parliament and the Council Regulations of 16 December 2008 and, then, exactly what things. So, and supplementing the Law implementing the regulation, etc., now an integer here. Therefore, those two implementing laws are also foreseen for this year. The regulations will also continue to be introduced into the Croatian legal system through the laws of membership. As regards the individual laws you have spoken and mentioned, among other things, the Public Sector Payments Act. There is a table of course for both of you and absolutely all of you and I think it's it for all the MPs and I think it's good practice, it stands for insight, there's a table that talks about, so it shows legislative measures, shows the ministries from which this law should come, the chapters to which certain legislation and reasoning apply. So, for example, the Public Sector Payments Act, which is seen from the table so it applies to Chapter 23 and for each of them is given status, the essence of that law is... Roughly speaking. [[You don't understand.]] So, to try to use excellence or quality as a criterion for advancement, not internship, in the public sector. In other words, if you've been sitting in one seat for 30 years, you have to be the boss. The idea is that this would not necessarily be so, but perhaps if there were some quality criteria, and not only endurance in one place to be, it is otherwise a great topic and I hope that we will make at least a shift and actually a prerequisite for my now much deeper belief than that once it is a prerequisite for the quality functioning of the state administration. The Foreign Affairs Act is set to end here, so for four quarters. These salaries in the public sector are foreseen for 2 quarters, the Foreign Affairs Act you mentioned for 4 quarters. I agree you should bring it in, there's no doubt about it. The Law on the Relations of the Government and the Parliament, of course, is an important law. I must say that one of the preparations we've prepared here in the last term for that law in the National Committee Parliament. We have prepared one preparation of the foundation and twinning project that we have had with the Hungarian Parliament on the role of the Hungarian Parliament in, namely, de facto Croatian Parliament in European institutions represents executive power, and members of the European Parliament are directly elected except for this short time. Therefore, they do not directly represent the Croatian Parliament. And therefore, it must be regulated by the way in which the Parliament will control the executive power and have insight into what it is doing and what views it represents when it is in the European Parliament and there are three general models between which to choose. But for that, there's this experience that we've had where we are in the last term, we haven't actually done the law if there's a lot of elements that can be chosen in which way it would be agreed and done. So, this you will get hopefully quite quickly to have enough time and look at the whole thing and then pass that law because it becomes particularly important at the moment of our full membership when members of the European Parliament are elected and are no longer representatives of the Parliament. Because now, by 1.7.2013, it will be the people who will be elected in the Parliament and will also be parliamentary representatives in the Croatian Parliament and members of the European Parliament so that the link will be much stronger in this respect. But, of course, it is important for the government in Parliament to say what it is doing, i.e. the representatives of the government, to say what they are doing in the European councils they are sitting in. Ms Lovrin spoke of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest where supervisory committees were questioned in her opinion. So it's our position and the government's position is that in things where there's a clear argument that it's trying to set itself up according to what it is, and not to pretend that people are, say, professional officials, and they're de facto in some kind of political function there, and from that point of view there's also a decision on deputies, so Minister, Deputy, Assistants. Assistants by names, I mean some people who have been professional officials so far have been appointed as assistants, so they haven't turned overnight into something else, but the whole idea is that both in the government and this applies to these supervisory committees, so just to say, these people come with a team that's got trust in the elections and they're leaving with that team. And we're not gonna pretend to choose God knows that in a public competition where everyone can report, but then they stay permanently employed forever, but we'll say that, that's our choice, and when we lose the election, if we lose the election, then they're gone. And that's one attitude that a man can agree with or not, but that's an explanation attitude. So it's not something we say we can't explain to the terrible administrators of the EU Commission and institutions. It's an attitude that can be explained. Someone may think it's good or bad and evaluate it anyway, but certainly it's not something that in some normal reasoned conversation it can't explain as well as this case with regard to supervisory committees in companies where the state has majority ownership. Property is a liability and must be held accountable. Someone's got to finally make an account for what's going on out there. What is needed or can be privatised will be privatised or sold, what the state retains and has the responsibility to take account of and cannot be abdicated from this responsibility. That's the attitude behind that attitude. At all, our attitude towards the commission and the committee members who were here with whom we spoke and with whom many of you spoke were people who, in my experience and assessed if you have a rational argument, there is no reason to treat them in any way vasal. So, behind some argument if a man can stand, that argument if he has a tail and a head is rational I think he absolutely needs it, he can take it out and defend it. Some will be considered acceptable, some will judge unacceptable, but at this point we have to practice the role of partners of people, that's our job. And you need to practice your partner's role. We may be a small partner in the whole thing, but I think our participation in European institutions has caused positive assessments for now. And I agree with you it is absolutely important and I repeat all the time very important that our people participate in all the institutions in which they are invited to participate, that they participate not only in such a sitting but that they participate in such an active debate because we can debate regardless of the vote. However, according to some of the indications that we have so far, nothing has changed yet, and I hope that it may seem that this participation has so far received a good assessment, or a positive assessment, and may allow us to tell us to participate in a broader spectrum of topics than what is now possible. The condemnation of communist crimes certainly as well as any other crime and it's actually about as Mrs. Vrbat said it was actually about setting up an office most likely within the framework of the Ministry of Defence and crime is a crime, and I don't think it should be distinguished by who committed it. Thus, the condemnation of all crimes through the same treatment, of course, as the establishment of truth concerns the same treatment. Here, thank you again for this. We'll certainly try to keep this pace going. And of course I take note of what Mrs. Lovrin said about the schedule. We are the same whenever I was in Parliament in this way having this problem so that I would prefer all the laws as soon as possible or in the first part of the year if there were any changes, of course the ministry would report to Parliament and then try to deliver those laws earlier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4998	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I am finalising the debate on the proposal for a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis for the EU for 2012. We will vote on the proposal when the conditions are met. Now we stop working. I announce that we start working tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with a vote on the final points of the agenda. Thank you very much. Every good thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-23-0.u4999	And we move on to a statement on the proposal for a plan to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2012. The debate is closed. I am voting on the draft plan. Please, let's get involved and vote. If there are no mistakes, a unanimous result is possible. Thank you. I find that most of the votes, 126 votes in favour, 2 abstentions, have been adopted Plan for harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legal acquis of the European Union for 2012 in the text proposed by the applicant.
