ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1882	Your Honor, Mr. President, honourable MPs and MPs. You have before you the proposal for a law amending the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. We have announced this law on several occasions and have fulfilled our promise that we will regulate the issue of parliamentary pensions regulated by a special law. Therefore, the subject of the regulation of this Act are parliamentary pensions which are governed by the law and the rights of representatives in the Croatian Parliament in Chapter VI. under the name of the agent's pension, or in Articles 8 to 17 of that Act. The Institute of Representative Pensions has existed in the legal order of the Republic of Croatia since 1995, and its threatening fee has been to pensioners to perform their duties in the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, which was already recognised in 1990 by the decision on the compensation of pensioners to perform their duties in the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia and which existed in a special form in the first year of the application of the Law on the Rights of Representatives in the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. We can split the arrangement of the parliamentary pension in the Croatian Parliament in two legislative periods. The first legislative period has lasted since 1995. Until 2000. This period began with the entry into force of the Law on Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Representatives in the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, which was later amended and amended twice. The second legislative period runs from 2000 to today since the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament is in force. The way in which the parliamentary pension was determined during both legislative periods depended on the elements taken to measure its recognition and on the basis of its calculation and were changed to a greater or lesser extent than one or more amendments to the legislation in question. Regardless of the different ways of regulating this right, however, each current regulation of the parliamentary pension has always led to the same effect. The representatives were granted the right to retire on a special, named privileged legal basis to which the higher amount of pension itself was linked than that recognised under the general rules in pension and disability insurance. Under that law, the right to resign shall be exercised if, for a period of at least four years, a full term of office, a representative, if he has completed at least 25 years of retirement and at least 60 years of male life, i.e. 55 years and 3 months of women's living conditions in 2012. A year while in the coming years that condition is increasing. A representative who has served at least three term of office, and if he has served for at least half of the term of office prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, has the right to resign if he has at least 15 years of retirement. The amount of the pension of the MPs shall be determined by the net salary of the MPs which has been or would have been achieved in the month preceding the application for the right to receive the pension, and the pension shall be limited to 85% of the basics. This is how a certain pension is reduced by 8 to 20% depending on its height, and thus the reduced cannot be less than the pension determined according to the general rules. As of 1 July 2009, the parliamentary pension has been reduced by 10% under the Law on the Reduction of Pensions established under the Law on the Rights and Obligations of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, and by 10% since 1 July 2010, according to the Law on the Reduction of Pensions, as defined by specific regulations on the Peace Act. According to the Law on Supplements to the Law on the highest pension, the amount of pension under the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament is limited to the maximum pension corresponding to the double amount of the maximum pension for 40 years of retirement. So these were the legal bases that have been valid so far. The government of the Republic of Croatia estimates as the legislator that the time has come for such a legislative practice to be abandoned. By respecting the fundamental principles on which the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia is rests, the Government estimates that this Law must not affect the pension and disability rights of MPs who have reached its entry into force but considers it both fundamental and legitimate that this law should also be applied to representatives of the Croatian Parliament, which was established on 22 December 2011. There's a bill before you that basically changes everything that's happened so far. Therefore, parliamentarians, by adopting this law into retirement, are going under the terms of a general law, the Pension Insurance Act which, under these conditions, all those who have completed 40 years of retirement and have paid contributions can have the highest pension of up to 8800 kuna. So it will no longer be possible that the pension of Parliamentarian is 17 and more thousands of kunas. Why am I stressing that? I stress this because the average pension of Croatian pensioners is 2300 kuna. According to some calculations, 2100 kuna, while the average pension of representatives in the Croatian Parliament who achieved this right is 8900 kuna, which is in great proportion not only to other pensions in the system but also to the overall economic situation in Croatia. If we compare solutions in other countries and if there is no single rule on how a parliamentary pension is calculated, that is, the pension of a member of Parliament, and not in any European Union country, there is such a huge disproportionate between a pension from a working relationship and a pension obtained by a member of Parliament. Of the European countries, 16 countries have no, so to speak, privilege for a member of Parliament when they retire while some countries have a certain institute that allows members of Parliament to have a slightly greater pension than they have had from working relations. However, in all these countries, the base for calculating pensions is a pension internship. So, looking at that part, we believe that the adoption of this law is absolutely justified and that in the adoption of this law, the part that is related to parliamentary pensions and the problem of parliamentary pensions is going back in history. I must point out that as far as the effect on the pension system itself is concerned, he is financially negligible. However, it is politically important, it is also important that we all retire as well as all those who in Croatia are having a hard time earning their salary at the moment. When we talk about why we think it should be an emergency procedure, we think it is very important that the part is arranged and that the pensions of parliamentary deputies comply with the pensions of workers in the Republic of Croatia who set aside for the pension system itself. I therefore propose that this law be adopted and that all, both this assembly of the Republic of Croatia and all other parliaments that are behind this assembly leave, means parliamentary representatives in a deserved pension under the General Law on Pension Insurance. So according to the conditions that apply to all those that I say in Croatia at this time are having a hard time earning their salary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1883	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Here you are, Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja on behalf of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership. I'm sorry, I didn't see you, Mr. Lucin... But if you'll excuse me. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So on behalf of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1884	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Minister, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership of the Croatian Parliament at the 1st session held on 24 January 2012 discussed the proposal of the Law amending the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, which has been submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Act of 19 January 2012. That act was discussed by the Committee in accordance with Article 140. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as an interested working body. In his opening statement, the applicant's representative pointed out that the proposed law would ensure that parliamentary representatives, judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, the Chief State Auditor, exercise the right to retire after the termination of his duties under the General Regulation on pension insurance, or in accordance with the Pension Insurance Act, as well as all other pension insurance undertakings. So far, parliamentary representatives, judges of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, the Chief State Auditor and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia have exercised the right to resign under the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament, subject to much more favourable conditions than the General Pension System, based on the contributions paid and the completed pension standing. The debate stressed that despite a small number of users of privileged parliamentary pensions that had already been reduced, these pensions were still the highest. The average pension of parliamentary representatives is cca 8 900 kuna while the average pension of all pensioners in Croatia is 2 365 kuna. This discrepancies with other pensioners should be removed in such a way as to ensure that, in accordance with the contributions paid and the completed pension internship, all of them are equalised according to the conditions and the level of pensions made with all other insurance undertakings. In the debate, it was argued that the unfavourable ratio of the number of beneficiaries of pensions and insurance companies at the moment is 1 per 1.23, that the average pension under the General Pension Regulation is 2 152 kuna and that the pension insurance system is overstretched, given that an additional 17 billion kuna contributions collected from the budget must be provided for in an additional 17 billion kuna per year for the payment of pensions. Most committee members support the adoption of this law despite the fact that the implementation of this law will not lead to significant savings in the state budget, but will remove inconsistencies and injustices in the pension system and establish the principles of justice, equality and equality in the pension insurance system which the Government has promised in its 2011-2015 mandate programme. Part of the board opposes the adoption of this law by emergency procedure. In this respect, they consider that the applicant should have also proposed the suspension of preferential pensions for other number of categories of officials at the same time. A representative of the draft labour and pension system ministers met the committee that the resolution ministry was preparing amendments to the Law on Rights and Obligations of Officials, which would also abolish preferential pensions by other duties. The resolution ministry also plans to amend other laws that regulate pension and labour rights, such as the possibility of returning to the post of officials after the term of office. After the debate was held, the committee decided, most of the votes with 8 votes for and 2 abstentions, to propose to the Croatian Parliament, to adopt an emergency procedure, the Law amending the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1885	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs, Mr. Representative Sima Lucin and the chairman of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1886	Thank you very much. At the 5th session held on 24 January 2012, colleagues and colleagues of the Committee on Selection, Appointing and Administrative Affairs of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal of the Law amending the Law and the responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament with a final draft of the law, an emergency procedure submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament. The election, appointment and administrative work committee of the Croatian Parliament proposed the Law on Amendments to the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament discussed in accordance with Article 91. Rules of Procedure of subparagraph 5. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliament as a parent working body. After the opening presentation and the debate, the Committee decided to propose to the Croatian Assembly, by majority vote 8 for and one abstention, the adoption of the Law on Amendments to the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, together with the following amendment: Article 5(1) is deleted after the word "condition for" of the word "registration or old age". In paragraph 2 of the same article, the words "registration pension or old age" are deleted after the words "right to". Therefore, it is a nomotechnical harmonisation of the applicable law with the Final Proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1887	Thank you very much. No one's answering on behalf of the working bodies anymore, then I'm opening a debate. And on behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1888	I'd be a hypocrite if I kept my mouth shut about this law. Clearly, we have before us this Law as it is called about the rights and duties of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, I ask that I be allowed to speak, but what we can say to all officials who will have a higher pension in full from these benefits than under the Law on Preferred Pensions, I will not mention anyone but can mention Mr Bebić and Hebrang who calculated themselves or calculated them to have a pension of 400 or 500 kuna. Not only would the baby or Hebrang have the others. I, not for one day, did not take advantage of the old law. Why? I can talk about the old law, why, because this one cancels that one. I will repeat what I have been saying for this speaker for more than 15 years, one mandate equal privilege, two mandates can be a privilege, but 15, 20, 25 years spent in an institution cannot be a privilege. We clearly don't have to do anything like Parliament, but it's my opinion that in some way we should protect the people who gave all their politics. None of us must have more than a single kuna than the miners, say, the Tuvaluac coal mines, for which I have fought to get into that system of privileged pensions, we must neither compare ourselves with the Tuvaluac coal miners, for surely none of us in those conditions would have worked, but some security should have if we wanted to preserve the independence of the institution so that the politics of the next day would not turn gentlemen into a commercial society. Whoever of our colleagues has 5, 10, 15 or 25 million kuna shares or I don't know what it's clear that he's not thinking about retirement but thinking about how he's going to live off dividends. There were no columnists in this country that had literally not been crucified in the last seven days. For a moment, someone might have thought that Caine was that contract stone of this country, which is stupid because I never felt that way, nor did anyone ever consider me that way. I'm not talking about morality, I'm not talking about those who work on transformed media, etc., but I'm talking about something else. Today it is already starting to speak, and this is what the Committee presidents said that after four years, the representative must somehow return to work. There are a lot of young colleagues here among us, and I say it is necessary. The existing law of one institute does not exist. You can clearly send these young colleagues back to the state service in some way, you can't return them to private services, you can return them to state companies, we have as many as 20 mayors, mayors here, and at the loss of their functions at that local level, those mandates stop. On the other hand, we all know, in the State Service State Secretary, ministerial assistants, heads of various offices, agencies, directors of these large public systems, that I'm not talking about unionists, journalists in public companies, staying or leaving with severance or acquired internship and some. And I'm going to say once again that I'm not asking for anything for MPs, but a dose of epiphany for a representative if we're going to protect the dignity in this House, surely yes. And the truth is, we've also collapsed on our own. Now we should start to live on even the pension of the president of the state, I say, gentlemen, don't do it, let's not play with the institutions that way, because it's going to cost us eventually, and the revolution could actually eat its own children in the end. I say in a joke that we should raise Tito from the dead so that we have a country that everyone will respect, whose institutions will respect. clearly if someone was for a small man, a worker, a peasant, although we now see that his heirs are fighting for a legacy of about 60 million dollars or euros. Not that it's small, to be honest, even if a man's been in power for 40 years. So what am I saying? I'm talking about institutions, what are you gentlemen doing with the Constitutional Court judges? IF the abolition of this institute would not accidentally turn into a mechanism for constitutional judges to be dependent on Croatia's policy the next day, on the current policy, the courts of regular courts we protected. How? By constitutional provisions that their mandates last until I say retirement, that's right. What about these others, if the next day they become dependent on politics, because politics can or may not simply allow them to re-election. On HRT, for example, I'm suing them, but I think the best TV on HRT with 30 years of watch, over 50 years of life, let's say someone's worked there for 20 years on that television, can you be out of a job, of course you can't. Clearly if you lose your mandate in that policy you're leaving, but I say protect some people who may have spent 20, 25, or I don't know how many years. I'll say it again, not for myself, but for the dignity of this house. I am speaking because of parliamentaryism, because of the fact that I have always experienced that this parliament must be the first institution in this country. Finally, if we don't talk about it, then no one will even talk about the dignity of this House that way. And now let me also cite just a few friends. I respect President Mesic, and we even spoke on the phone two days ago after one statement, but what I mean is, President Mesic, 95, at the loss of office, and with Tudjman, with the government of Seks, with whom I know the defenders, the disabled, the powerless, does not matter, those who lie under stone plates, he created this country, after falling into political unrest because of me democratisation of relations in this society, others called it a coup. If it wasn't for the existing law, he'd be in a situation where he was in '71. Or '72. After leaving Leprechaun or Old Gradiška in one word, he would fall on the burden of Mrs Milka, whether her pensions or wages, I don't know. To whom Mesic could write applications in '72. For years, he sent them 180? No one. '95. If he could no longer go to the public service and went to any private simply state institutions would break it up. So the institutions would destroy that state. The one who works honestly, I say, will have nothing on this mandate, but it can happen to him without everything he's brought into that policy and without a job and without the existence itself. And it's not the same as anyone's thinking of being big or being in a small party. And it can't be that someone who's in politics can have a friend. He can't have a friend. I know I can have there at the orphanage thousands of people who like me or not, but also those big ones where you can expect something next day I know I've been a thousand times resented. And that's just the point. This bill, I'll say it one more time, it's more favourable for those who will go from big incomes, big contributions to full-time retirement, I won't mention anyone here, I can't mention Mr. Shecks, I don't want anyone, but I mentioned Mr. Hebrang. Why? Because I'd be under more favourable circumstances, which is why I can mention him. Maybe he won't mind, maybe he will. But I did mention Mr. Baby or Mr. Hebrang who already talked about it. You know what I'm also going to say, this law also says that some simply want to retire from the position of minister or representative. I say it's very good, that they're already announcing what someone's ambitions are. This law will pass, it's clear, it's never going to change again, but someone I don't know can interpret it differently. I don't run from the truth, I used the old one. Why? If someone hadn't told me in 5.6 or 7 years as we say to the Istrians, you're a squire, you're a monk, you're nothing, you're nothing, that someone tells you that you've had the chance to do so without simply achieving it as 600 other people who under those conditions in that law. Well, I don't want anyone to feel sorry for me either, and I'm going to say it completely openly. What am I calling for? I call on gentlemen to direct elections, direct elections, and let me see whose mother's black ore is spinning. As far as I know, the way I speak will not be spoken by those who came from the list of their presidents to the Parliament. That's why I call for these direct elections. Who's gonna be the representative of this House the next day? It will be those who depend on lobbying groups. They do not need pensions, because they will get everything early because they will be well paid to protect their interests or we can make another one as at the time of socialism all on the daily and after the daily home, but then we will lose the Croatian Parliament and then disappear parliamentaryism in the Republic. I can speak a lot of examples, which I know. I also have them at the club, I can mention Mr. Tomic, I can mention Herak who lost everything from the state, and in two months, he can't achieve that right. What about the ones from the '90s? By '95? They could not exercise their right, and they created a Croatian state, with today simply nowhere to go. I say it in 20 years or 21 no one at the pay phone, but it doesn't matter, it didn't spend more minutes than me, it doesn't matter. But if some of us don't talk about this Parliament, I don't think it's gonna be good for those who stay behind, no matter how much it costs us in a political sense. I claim that this Parliament should be above the executive authority, should be above the government, should be also above our party policies. It must be above the institutions that draw legitimacy from this Assembly, but clearly these institutions should also be allowed to work independently, etc. I won't say what I got or didn't get from politics it doesn't matter, I agree that the pension system has been overstretched in Croatia. One of the pensioners gets 1.22 workers in Istria on one 1.71, which is why it's certainly not my fault. And in the end, you know what I also think should be done. I don't know if anyone will agree with me. All those in the executive power should be prohibited from leading to loss of function any business where the money is rotated. Because we also know that without politics, there's no big money. Some leave the post within 6 months at Consuling are contracting 2m euros. Others leave the city's function by Istria 25 villas in Zagreb 250 apartments. Some of them had come from the left, the shipyard. My parents had something else, to be clear, nothing to do with it. You have 10, 15, 25 million kuna shares, and no one asks you how you got to the company of 10, 15 or 20 million simply euros. Yes, it's true, as one of our colleagues said, this law is for the soul, it's for the soul a one-time balm. And you know what, after this, there's no end because we're headed for the president and we're moving on. And I'm just asking myself a question, does all this work amongst other things and capital so that the next day wouldn't happen by chance someone remembers to be moved into conversion, etc. But it's not possible to put everything in the same basket. Someone who took advantage of the property and someone who took advantage of the social moment and overnight acquired a tourist resort, I don't know the factory, shipyard, etc., etc. But let's not all be dependent on capital in politics the next day. Let after this law, yes and I will say it, everyone will be even less dependent on the citizen and far more in, about or on politics. The future MPs knew the conditions under which they were running by entering this House but the old one had acquired it, and now we're losing it. But it's not good to get into Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1889	Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1890	If someone's good with a party boss, they're good with home counseling. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1891	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Representative of Shima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1892	Thank you very much. This Regulation shall enter Mr. President, Agent Cain insulted all of us advocates who we have the right and who could make a pension, and we didn't. He actually called us that we're stupid, stupid as he said. ... I think it's inadmissible. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] At the very least, I'd... At the very least, if spoken personally, then other representatives should be bypassed. ... /The noise in the hall./... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1893	If the Rules of Procedure has already been injured, and I claim that this is a matter of debate that you, Mr. Agent Lucin, have said, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure, it is an expression of your opinion. And I felt something like that these days, but I didn't talk about it, I thought it was a free expression of Mr. Representative's opinion because he didn't say about us that we did, but he said it might be for him. So I can't accept this objection as to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, the more you didn't call for a specific provision, which is Article 214, which then gives you a warning. I haven't seen any other reactions, so we can move on. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Party of Retired Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1894	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Mrsic, Mr. Minister, Mr. Kristoff, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a bill on amendments to the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, and I was probably myself personally when I fired in the election campaign that we will abolish the privileged pensions of parliamentary representatives I probably got a lot of enemies, but most of them will be silent in this assembly today during this debate, except Caine, who will always say what she thinks in her own own personal way and how much it cost. So we live in a time with nearly 400 thousand unemployed, with 100 thousand people who do not receive salaries and pensions from a political elite, are simply something that offends our citizens, and in a large number have supported this position that we all need to retire under the general rules, i.e. that pension law should be based on contributions paid by the worker through the years. Of course, there must also be reciprocity and solidarity and a system of current contributions in the pension insurance system, but other than those two principles, equality and justice must be restored to the system in view of the seriousness of the economic and social moment in which Croatian citizens live. The current law is quoted here as saying the applicable law under which no one has retired, and no one will retire, because the applicable law under which the right to resign is exercised by an agent if he has served for at least four years, or one full term of office, if he has completed at least 25 years of retirement and at least 60 years of men's lives, or 55 years and 3 months of women's lives. It is a condition for 2012 and it is a condition for this assembly of parliaments. And from this convocation of the Parliament under these conditions no one has left, and on condition, so with what we are likely to do on Friday, I believe that, therefore, to abolish or bring amendments and additions to this law. Under these legal provisions, no one will ever retire, so that law can also be remembered. Therefore, pensions do not have a minimum, i.e. a representative's pension has a minimum that cannot be less than that which is under general rules, but cannot be even higher than 80% of the base or salary that the representative made in the month preceding the application. And it's gone and it's gone. What is the problem, the problem is that despite the two cuts in their average pensions, the average of these pensions is 8900 kuna, despite the 10% reduction and 10% reduction first in 2009 and 2010. We still have 12 categories of pensions by special regulations one of which is relatively close, its average is 7900, it is a pension that is otherwise arranged, pension of regular members of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. There are only 154 of them and their average is 7900. All other pensions under special regulations are related to the provision of certain state services or the state has solved some economic or social health problems. In doing so, I mean the pensions of Istrian coal miners "Tupljak", the pensions of workers professionally exposed to asbestos. So this is about socio-health, and in the first case, it was about an economic problem. The problem is precisely this disproportionate relationship between parliamentary pensions, other types of preferential pensions, and especially according to pensions under general rules. Namely, the pension of pensioners made exclusively under the general rules, including the Croatian military and defenders and the HVO, is the average of 2154 kunas compared to 8900 and the biggest problem is this disproportionate. If we compare, what Mr. Minister was saying, solutions from neighbouring countries, if we exclude the Republic of Italy where there are enormous differences between average salaries and salaries of MPs and pensions of MPs and ordinary citizens, in all other countries, and for all other European countries, there is one common denominator, although there is no single rule. It's common that there is no such disproportionateness between ordinary pensions to express myself and parliamentary pensions, and that's one of the valid reasons why we're doing this. One more detail to explain. Here is often referred to as the 8800 pension as the highest pension and it really is the pension for 40 years. But since 1999, the pension insurance system has not known the highest pension as one pension. He knows the most about pensions. Because if someone has 50 years of internship and made monthly payments at the level of 7,000 kuna contributions he will have the highest pension that will exceed 10,11,000 kuna but is covered by contributions. So there is no longer a single highest pension. She's the assumed category for 40 years of internship. The internship is multiplied by a coefficient of 3.8 and is limited to 8800 kuna gross and then tax cuts. So despite everything with a lot of internships, solid wages throughout the working life will be able to reach the level of the highest pension. But what I pointed out in the election campaign isn't it illogical that the MP could have had 12, 13000 kuna pensions based on one, two, and even three mandates, and one company director who ran a successful company for 40 years or 30 years and made sure that he provided a monthly salary for three, five or more thousand people, that his pension would be limited to 8800 or that he had a slightly lower pension. I don't think that made any sense. I also think that the quality of this Law is to achieve pension law in view of the moment when a pension application is filed, not if someone once has achieved the right, so activates it when the year is up. Definitely the messages that we give to the public in some way are the following: the principle of equality of citizens returns to the pension insurance system and also greater fairness among the insurance companies. And indeed, the system of generation solidarity gets a new component. This amendment also allows for something Mr. Lesar's colleague has been involved in in the past term, which is the decommissioning of the system of double pensions. There are a small number of double pensions that are possible under the existing law, and on this basis it will no longer be possible. I just believe that here, too, will be sought, i.e. disabled through retroactive application, but a law that allows for a second pension, with this, the abolition of this law will no longer exist. Namely, it is those who have earned a full pension in Canada and based on four years or Germany or anywhere and based on four years here and in Croatia have made a full pension. It's a small number of people, but also one let's say one obstruction of justice in the pension system. I think this law also goes in favor of solving this problem. They follow as announced by the Minister of Change of the Law on State Officials. I'm just here to warn you of caution. In Croatia, pensioners understand the difference between parliamentary elections when MPs become on party lists regardless of whether they are small or large parties and the direct election of presidents. So I'm not for the principle of putting everything in the same basket. The president of the Republic is an institution, elected in local elections, pardoned, was elected to the elections in which he went out as an individual in the direct elections. That's what I was gonna say. So, of course, with the support of one or more parties. But he's an institution and a moral verticalist, and I'm not really into putting everything in the same basket. I am for all citizens to go by the same principle that we have a pension on payment of contributions. But the model we have for academics can also be used for the president. So that there is some addition that recognizes this important function that someone has performed in one or two mandates. And I repeat, the president is one or possibly two or three living things, and that's the biggest expense. But it's also a great recognition for one moral vertical that every country needs. These amendments and additions of the law give us the right to hope that other illogical systems of pension insurance and unemployed persons will soon be resolved. I think there's an indifference to health insurance contributions 3% to just 22,000 pensioners. I think it's the illogicalness of the health system, as we do in unemployed people, that because of bureaucracy, not because of legal provisions, people lost 3, 6 or 9 months of their right to the Employment Office because of the change in the Pension Insurance Act and increased the age of women going into retirement. Women are exclusively damaged, exclusively victims of amendments to the Pension Insurance Act. Of course, continuing to work also leads to this debate and the future status of parliamentary representatives and their retirement obliges us in some way to continue to deal with what they have promised, and to introduce a category of full-time employment and to resolve retirement differently. So, more appropriate, to respect the difference between the one who went into temporary because he has an additional business, between the one who received 300,000 kuna of severance and accepted early retirement and the one who had to go to early retirement. So we need to know these individual differences. And in the end, I want to say that the amendments and additions to this law are still something special. Namely, in our people, there is a saying that fish smell like head, but that it is cleaned from tail. This is the first time we've started cleaning our heads. And of course because of everything I said and because of what I finally said the Croatian Party of Retired Party Club will support the adoption of this Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1895	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic came forward to correct the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1896	Thank you. The esteemed representative of Hrelja said a partial untruth that under this existing law no one will retire and no one will exercise the right to retire. Which is partly true, but it's pretty hypocritical. Because in the last session of the Parliament, he voted precisely for this law by binding new representatives in this current assembly. Although we were already against the adoption of such a law and the abolition of privileged pensions.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1897	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1898	And our fish don't smell like head, our fish is completely stinky, Mr. Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1899	Thank you. Mr. Representative Darko Milinovic for correcting the incorrect allegations as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1900	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here is the esteemed representative of the Hrelja mentioned 3% of the contributions to health insurance. In this context, we can say, and he said that this is about illogicality, and I must say that it is not about illogicalness, but about solidarity with regard to health contributions. And the fact that this government has pompously announced, that is, the health minister has pompously announced that it will abolish 3% of the contributions. I would like to point out that it was one social category, or social security, because those pensions that are over 5 100 kuna were paid 3%, and below that are also paid contributions of 1%, but it was paid by the state budget. So it's actually a kind of solidarity in the health contribution.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1901	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP Mr. Representative and President of the club Igor Dragovan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1902	Mr. President, respected colleagues and colleagues 12 years ago, the coalition government of Ivica Racan has cut parliamentary representatives' salaries by 40%. She is aware that the differences in income between citizens and those who represent them are inappropriately large. Today, when we are able to re-change things with this proposal to amend and supplement the law, we are abolishing privileged pensions to government officials. The job of a parliamentary representative is considered extremely honorable, very responsible and unquestionable to free a representative from any kind of pressure to speak freely, directly, and that his primary interest is to represent the citizens who elected him, but not to ensure his future existence after the end of the term of office. The citizens are completely unsatisfactory because over the past years we have witnessed the shameless abuse of the right to resign from the activation of the mandate for one afternoon or two days in order to achieve the right to retire and to this day that some have activated their pensions and are sitting as elected representatives in this assembly. And it just has to change. We consider them deeply unfair to Croatian citizens who make their pensions through regular pension regulations, and these pensions are today inadequately small and difficult to live on. We heard here the average is 2,300 kuna, that anyone has different conditions of retirement and compared to these 2,300 kunas 9 thousand kunas is dizzyingly high. That's why we put things in a fairer way, as citizens' representatives, we put them in the category where they are the same citizens who chose us and we will all exercise our pension rights together according to the same rules. We are seeking these changes, and we believe that we will succeed in this and not only by this measure but also by a different attitude towards working in the Croatian Parliament and, in general, in politics, we will restore citizens' confidence in politics, politicians and parliamentary representatives, that is, political institutions that are and must be pillars of Croatian society. This move has been decided not because we promised it in the campaign but because we are told by our beliefs, because we believe that no one should have privileges that would spread the gap between the individual social layers and the vast majority of Croatian citizens and because we seek a just society that we can only exercise this justice in practice. We're sure this is one step that leads in that direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1903	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, Madam Representative Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1904	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Dragovan, speaking on behalf of the SDP club, said that only Racan's government, quotes: "it has reduced parliamentary pensions." That's not true. The government I run is, as the law explains, so that came from the ministry, but Mr. Dragovan probably didn't read it, it says that the government I ran on two occasions was reducing pensions by 10%. So, a total of 20%. But also, we've tightened the conditions for retirement of parliamentarians. And that's right. And in this law, and I also want to make it right, not all officials are involved. So, for example. It has been dropped to change the conditions for retirement to the President of the Republic of Croatia whoever he is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1905	Thank you very much. I must say that I understood and heard well that the government of Ivica Racan has reduced the salaries of parliamentary representatives, not pensions. So now I have to correct you. ... Okay. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Let's discuss it further. Mr. Jozo Radosh is the president of the HNS Club. On behalf of the club, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1906	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The point, the positive intensity of these pensions that we are talking about today, is independence in the conduct of a parliamentary representative or a member of the government and the consistent security of existence, which then again enables full commitment to a job that is by definition an important job for the common public interests. This, however, has surfaced with us, has received cartoon forms and various forms of deformation, since going into retirement for one day, as my colleague Dragovan said, the adoption of laws concerning some others, not us, it is a law passed in, a shameful law passed in the previous assembly of the Parliament, a pension that is independent of the time you spent in Parliament and a pension which is independent of the duties that you had while you were acting in public duties and naturally fictitious retirements. These are all the deformities of a valuable institute that has been compromised over the past years. In all these discussions that have been held in the last 10 years, 15 years in which so much bile has been spilled and so much ink has never really been seriously focused on the fact that it is actually a job for a government member. Is it important, how important it is, how it should be done, who does it, it never mattered. It was also neglected that whoever decided to be a representative who had been elected as a member of the government had been limited to entrepreneurial activity, that he had left his profession, with the threat of leaving it permanently and thereby sacrificed one of his important dimensions of his life and, of course, was exposed to the security of the political position, there was hardly ever any talk about it and it was never in focus and it was important if he wanted to fully look at a job that was as I said of particular importance to public interests. But where we are, maybe this law that we're going to bring will allow with a little more reality, with a little more impartiality, and with a little less bile to look at these public affairs, not because of the interest of the people who behave them, but because of the importance of these jobs, so that we don't come into a position to reduce the circumstances and conditions in which these jobs can behave in the interests of the citizens of this country. Perhaps this law will be one step along the way, it is difficult to say. The direct effects of this Law will certainly be negative for one part of the official. Officials will have to take care of what will be with them at the end of the term of office, to keep special relations and interests with the institutions in which they may want to return, to enter conflicts of interest, noting that our mechanisms of supervision and monitoring of conflicts of interest have not been developed. We have very primitive mechanisms of monitoring conflicts of interest and this problem is emerging here and, of course, another dimension is one loss of engagement that will have to be devoted to something else, the future, keeping contacts and that is the same thing that will go to the expense of acting as a member of the government, and that is the fact for one part of the MPs. Those who are conscious and can lead to people who are determined for politics and devote their lives to politics and who do not have a stronger private interest that would be above public interest will walk away from that job. Those who remain and have to remain in politics and who do not care about the public interest will have to develop these mechanisms of monitoring conflicts of interest in particular, but these are short-term effects, we will see what will happen. The long-term effects of this Law can be the seriousness of all political technology, raising the quality of the work of a complete state administration but at all raising the quality of public work at all levels, because if you were able to be strict to yourself then of course you have the right to be strict to others and I hope that this opportunity will be used. This is residential capital, and should be used to raise the quality and responsibilities of work, not only public administrations but also the overall public life. Whether it will be used is hard to say, that's the thing to hope for. Whether to enter a new topic that will be some new wrong focus and distract attention often with more important issues like this topic for 15 years with so much anger, we'll see. We don't have a lot of reason not to jump into some ridiculous theme declassified that will take away energy and distract attention from more important issues. For example, in preparation for a referendum last week, one radio station did not have the first news that Croats are going out or citizens of the Republic of Croatia are going to the referendum, but that on that day, that week in the Assembly, they are discussing parliamentary pensions. This is an important topic, but the referendum was certainly a more important topic and that was the level of priorities of a non-communicative media, which we can expect from commercial media when such a situation is. So there's still some chance, there's hope that what we're doing is making our political life better in the long run. When it comes to the position of representatives and members of the Government and the Chief State Auditor and Judges of the Constitutional Court, however, it is certain that their position is not the most difficult position in this country. There's a campaign behind us, you've been campaigning, you've been to the markets, and you've met people who tell you I have a pension of 1200 kuna, my wife is sick, I'm spending 500 kuna on drugs, Mr. Representative, or I don't know the candidate, how to live. And to that question in principle you have no answer, you can just turn around and be obliged and continue to do your job. So they're not MPs, they're not members of the government of those who are the hardest, and the citizens of this country are 99% and more willing to abolish these pensions. And regardless of the possible difficulties that will cause the logical thing to happen, so be it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1907	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The point, the positive intensity of these pensions that we are talking about today, is independence in the conduct of a parliamentary representative or a member of the government and the consistent security of existence, which then again enables full commitment to a job that is by definition an important job for the common public interests. This, however, has surfaced with us, has received cartoon forms and various forms of deformation, since going into retirement for one day, as my colleague Dragovan said, the adoption of laws concerning some others, not us, it is a law passed in, a shameful law passed in the previous assembly of the Parliament, a pension that is independent of the time you spent in Parliament and a pension which is independent of the duties that you had while you were acting in public duties and naturally fictitious retirements. These are all the deformities of a valuable institute that has been compromised over the past years. In all these discussions that have been held in the last 10 years, 15 years in which so much bile has been spilled and so much ink has never really been seriously focused on the fact that it is actually a job for a government member. Is it important, how important it is, how it should be done, who does it, it never mattered. It was also neglected that whoever decided to be a representative who had been elected as a member of the government had been limited to entrepreneurial activity, that he had left his profession, with the threat of leaving it permanently and thereby sacrificed one of his important dimensions of his life and, of course, was exposed to the security of the political position, there was hardly ever any talk about it and it was never in focus and it was important if he wanted to fully look at a job that was as I said of particular importance to public interests. But where we are, maybe this law that we're going to bring will allow with a little more reality, with a little more impartiality, and with a little less bile to look at these public affairs, not because of the interest of the people who behave them, but because of the importance of these jobs, so that we don't come into a position to reduce the circumstances and conditions in which these jobs can behave in the interests of the citizens of this country. Perhaps this law will be one step along the way, it is difficult to say. The direct effects of this Law will certainly be negative for one part of the official. Officials will have to take care of what will be with them at the end of the term of office, to keep special relations and interests with the institutions in which they may want to return, to enter conflicts of interest, noting that our mechanisms of supervision and monitoring of conflicts of interest have not been developed. We have very primitive mechanisms of monitoring conflicts of interest and this problem is emerging here and, of course, another dimension is one loss of engagement that will have to be devoted to something else, the future, keeping contacts and that is the same thing that will go to the expense of acting as a member of the government, and that is the fact for one part of the MPs. Those who are conscious and can lead to people who are determined for politics and devote their lives to politics and who do not have a stronger private interest that would be above public interest will walk away from that job. Those who remain and have to remain in politics and who do not care about the public interest will have to develop these mechanisms of monitoring conflicts of interest in particular, but these are short-term effects, we will see what will happen. The long-term effects of this Law can be the seriousness of all political technology, raising the quality of the work of a complete state administration but at all raising the quality of public work at all levels, because if you were able to be strict to yourself then of course you have the right to be strict to others and I hope that this opportunity will be used. This is residential capital, and should be used to raise the quality and responsibilities of work, not only public administrations but also the overall public life. Whether it will be used is hard to say, that's the thing to hope for. Whether to enter a new topic that will be some new wrong focus and distract attention often with more important issues like this topic for 15 years with so much anger, we'll see. We don't have a lot of reason not to jump into some ridiculous theme declassified that will take away energy and distract attention from more important issues. For example, in preparation for a referendum last week, one radio station did not have the first news that Croats are going out or citizens of the Republic of Croatia are going to the referendum, but that on that day, that week in the Assembly, they are discussing parliamentary pensions. This is an important topic, but the referendum was certainly a more important topic and that was the level of priorities of a non-communicative media, which we can expect from commercial media when such a situation is. So there's still some chance, there's hope that what we're doing is making our political life better in the long run. When it comes to the position of representatives and members of the Government and the Chief State Auditor and Judges of the Constitutional Court, however, it is certain that their position is not the most difficult position in this country. There's a campaign behind us, you've been campaigning, you've been to the markets, and you've met people who tell you I have a pension of 1200 kuna, my wife is sick, I'm spending 500 kuna on drugs, Mr. Representative, or I don't know the candidate, how to live. And to that question in principle you have no answer, you can just turn around and be obliged and continue to do your job. So they're not MPs, they're not members of the government of those who are the hardest, and the citizens of this country are 99% and more willing to abolish these pensions. And regardless of the possible difficulties that will cause the logical thing to happen, so be it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1908	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I heard here statements from some of my representatives that in the election campaign, they fired a promise to lift their privileged pensions. On 14 September 2005, I wrote by the content of an almost identical bill which the Government of the Republic of Croatia has now submitted to the parliamentary procedure, but there was another and there was no campaign then, another historical fact that my proposal for a law on the agenda was included, it was the 18th session of the V. convened precisely on the day of 25 January 2006. It's January 25th, 2012. When my fellow MPs and MPs asked me what you needed. It's demagogy. They laughed that in general they could be discussed seriously in the Croatian Parliament on the subject. And some of them have filed a request these days, frozen their pension and returned to the Parliament. I told them that sometimes new ideas are daughters of the past, mothers of the future and slaves of time. In 2006, this could not be debated because my proposal for a law by the end of the term of office 5. The call never opened on him, although he was on the agenda until the 5th. He's calling it in. When we talk about the Institute of Preferred Pensions for Not Only Representatives, but also members of the Government, Judges of the Constitutional Court and the Chief State Auditor, we must consider two aspects. First and then today, I felt that it was socially unfair for those who passed regulations and laws to benefit themselves in certain status and material rights. And secondly, that such rights, such laws violate the basic principle of pension insurance, which is that pensions must be the result of the insurance and paid contributions. When that basic principle of pension insurance collapses in one country, then we introduce injustice into the pension system. There were three problems at the time. Always for retirement from the general pension rules was 10 years earlier, so it was reduced to 5. So the second privilege and benefits were the amount and pensions that depended on the last paid salary, and for ordinary or other insurance companies every year we tightened the conditions for retirement as well as the way in which the pensions were calculated. There was also a third injustice in this pension, which in the course of the insurance and acquisition of this right accounted for and the internship acquired abroad, and indeed there are beneficiaries of pensions which, on the basis of the foreign insurance internship, have achieved and received pensions in that country but are also receiving full pensions in Croatia as former members of the government, and one is a parliamentary representative. And through the interpretation of the legal rules in the last term, I tried to influence it, and the proposal for a credible interpretation of the law was also rejected. And they continue to enjoy two pensions that are not really small. How is it in other countries? The minister briefly referred to this and indeed, in no country that I analysed according to the Interparliamentary Union Council, there were all three negativeities. And years of retirement and pension rates and the fact that so-called increased pensions are paid to the burden of generation solidarity from the pension system. For those countries where pension benefits existed, the pension gap was paid out of the 35-nation parliamentary pension insurance. According to the data of October last year, we have 13 categories with 173,000 pensioners acquired under special regulations and more favourable conditions. We have taken over a lot of things in the Croatian pension insurance system that have violated the basic principle that pension is the result of insurance and payment. I will not present all the data for the sake of time, but I will only remind myself of one category that no government wanted to take over into the pension system of the Republic of Croatia, which is workers and workers who were daily immigrants during the former state and who traveled from Croatia every day to work, for example. In neighbouring BiH or Serbia. That's where they should exercise their right to retire. Some of them today are either retired or on welfare because, for example, in Brcko, there is no pension insurance, so they were transferred to Republika Srpska's pension system and what they are receiving cannot be called a pension. When the Parliament discussed this, there were 20 thousand such citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia who had never left the territory of the Republic of Croatia but worked as daily immigrants in neighbouring countries and the only category of workers we did not take over into the pension system of the Republic of Croatia. We're probably waiting for that biology to come true and do it on its own. As regards the concrete draft law, Mr. Minister, in Article 8. These are the final provisions, it says, that the requests will be submitted on the date of entry into force of this law under the provisions of the Law on Rights and responsibilities and you are now quoting "The People's Journal" of 2000, 2001, 2009, 2010 and 2011. Are you sure that such a provision of Article 8 conditioned that this request should only be resolved if the applicant complied with the conditions on the date of submission of the application? Or might this formulation mean that those who, after the end of the term of office and the former term of office continue to use 6 months' full salary and 6 months' reduction, have submitted a request, and relying on these laws that you quote in Article 8, will not exercise the right? You have such applicants. Someone's missing a month's internship or a year's worth of two. I wanted to write the amendments, I won't, now I've warned you, and make sure the provision of Article 8 is safe enough. And is this the law that we're dealing with all the problems that have been linked to this institute of privileged pensions? No, I don't. Proposing a re-action law is not constitutional, but the minister said that one of the serious problems is that the height of the peace effort is far greater than all other pensions in the Republic of Croatia. By this law, we do not resolve this disproportionate pension, and they remain. If the disproportionate pension is the only reason why this law is proposed, then I expect the government to come in the next 30 days with a bill that all pensions to all the users who made it, activate and use a reduction of, say, 15, 20% to reduce that disproportionateity. And then he would accept the government's argument that only the disproportionateness of those pensions is the reason for proposing this law. Until you cut these average 8900 to, say, 6900 on average, that argument doesn't stand. No reform of pension insurance, and especially generation solidarity will yield results until there is political will, and now I am talking again about something that will come safely to ridicule and revolt, until there is a political will to reform all 13 categories of pensions acquired under more favourable terms of the calculation of pensions, and anything else can be added. We can raise age limits for retirement, we can pension women who go into retirement or men with 40 years of training as we do now, but we won't solve this problem because for these 13 categories of pensions a year will need to provide more than 8 billion kuna. And something else that this law does not resolve, and in the last term there were and in this term there are those who have retired, continued to receive part of the pension, which is most often 50%, went to the functions of state officials or highly-ranked civil servants and receive full pay. They're getting full pay and half a pension. Those were in the last term. On the names of those who stayed in the state administration, I'm saying there's more. And this bill of law doesn't solve that problem either. And I'll finish the next one. The Institute of Pensions of Representatives, which was later a cunning provision of the Government Act, was taken in such a way that it was written that the members of the Government's pensions were carried out in the same way as the MPs, so that the formulation was transposed into the Constitutional Court Act, and was then transposed into the State Audit Act and probably the only law since May of the 1990s. who was accepted in the House without being proposed by the government or by any club of MPs, but by a group of MPs. In September 1995, 42 MPs and MPs proposed a law introducing the institute, and it was voted in the parliament. The only argument, the only excessive sentence required by the request for the privileged status of the MP's pension, was the following. Since our law calls this right, it is said of pension law, there is no provision for a single number of MPs from the I. convenes the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, and they will likely be from this other one who are not materially taken care of because they have no job or yet have obtained the conditions for retirement. Therefore, the law had then a function to be taken care of by MPs I and II. Invoking the Parliament. Of course no one ever after taking care of MPs I and II. The assembly did not want them to worry about the third, the IV, the V, the VI, perhaps the VII. It's a stimulant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1909	Thank you very much. Minister of Labour and Pension System Mirando Mrsic reportedly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1910	Thank you, Mr. President. Just to clarify Article 8 and Article 6 of the amendment and addition of this law. Therefore, Article 8 provides that all those who, until the entry into force of this law, submit a request for retirement to be settled under the laws in force, but also Article 6 is deleted. The law supplementing the Law on Rights and Obligations, which stated that the agent who acted before the entry into force of that law did not exercise the right to resign, has the right to advocacy under the rules applicable at a time when he acted as a representative, regardless of the time of application for the right to resign. Therefore, this amendment aims to ensure that the agent is entitled to pension according to the rules in force at the time of the application. This means that all those who apply for retirement after the adoption of this law will be accounted for under this law, not by the laws that were in force at the time of their duties. Therefore, the adoption of this law regardless of when they exercised their duty in the Assembly, whether in II, IV. and the V-commitment, if that right has not been fulfilled anymore, will not be able to achieve this right but will be achieved under this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1911	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1912	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs. I would like to begin my speech on behalf of the HDZ Club with a historical syntagm which was an honor to say in the Croatian Parliament, each speech of the representatives began with an honorary Croatian assembly. So I'd like to start my speech on behalf of the club with an honorary Croatian assembly, honorary colleague and fellow MPs. It is my special honor that as a 35-year-old, 35-year-old attorney, I can talk about privileged parliamentary pensions because I am not thinking about those pensions right now. It is very important that today we also address all of those colleagues who have been representing parliamentary representatives in this High Honorable Croatian House in 20 years of Croatian statehood. All the important laws that are the basis of Croatian statehood are these colleagues who believe that they are following this parliamentary debate today, by their work in the Croatian Parliament have contributed to the future and the European path of Croatia, so this way and these colleagues, I welcome former fellow MPs, regardless of whether they are HDZ, SDP, HNS, HSLS or any other party represented here in the Croatian Parliament. What is happening today in front of us can be considered a political demagogy, a public bluff, one by throwing light at images and opportunities in Croatia that this government obviously wants to conceal. Because I believe that today there was a topic here in Parliament that we could discuss and discuss and which is more important for the future of Croatian workers, Croatian citizens of Croatia. This bill that you have proposed to amend the law on parliamentary retirement is your pre-election promise and you have put it from the hills down here in, and put it in the parliamentary procedure, because you want to send a message to the public to keep your election promises. I would remind the public today that they would like to discuss safely that VAT is rising to 25% and that yesterday it collected fuel for our citizens and for Croatian workers, and that the Government should discuss these topics as well. What the HDZ Club should warn representatives in the Croatian Parliament may have forgotten at times, so today there have been statements from colleagues who spoke before the SDP especially should be warned that Croatia is a parliamentary state, that we have introduced parliamentaryism and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is just coming out of this honorable House. The dignity of the parliamentary representatives of the highest representative body of the Republic of Croatia is this way of presenting the law by which you have set out respected colleagues and colleagues must be ruined, we are being brought to the stage of the shame of the Croatian public, and we are bringing to the stage of shame and all those representatives, honorable Croatian people who have been representatives of the Croatian Parliament for some 20 years. Today, the general public, and especially you who have proposed this Law, are making fun of them, making fun of them because you think they have done something that is dishonest. It is particularly important to point out that these people did their job fairly and consciously and that at the most difficult times they represented the interests of Croatian citizens. Each of us here and today should receive at least 10,000 votes except national minorities and those categories provided for by law to be a representative in the Croatian Parliament. So each of us personally respected colleagues and colleagues does not represent ourselves but represents our constituents, our citizens, our people who have given us confidence that in this House we represent the interests of them primarily, our electoral units, municipalities and cities and our voters who have given them confidence in the elections. What you suggested, not to turn out wrong to defend the interests of the Croatian Democratic Community, colleagues and colleagues of the Croatian Parliament, was a large majority 20 years ago this law was passed with all clubs of representatives of both HDZ, SDP, HNS and all other political parties that were then represented in the Croatian Parliament. In order not to get the wrong idea, we do not feel that this proposal should not be considered, but we have suggested that we do not need to push this law into the urgency of the procedure. You put a lot of it in the bill on speed, so you didn't even think it might be good. We believe that you should have discussed this Act with consensus and joint agreement with all the clubs of MPs, suggested and justified to explain the proposal for your amendments and the proposals you made here in the Croatian Parliament. I think we could talk politely, politically and what would be at that moment of interest for all of us representatives of the Croatian Parliament, because we are not talking about ourselves individually, but we are talking about all of you and our colleagues and colleagues. What happened is wrong, because of course the Croatian public, workers who live on 2,000 kuna salaries and 2700 kuna pensions look differently at what we are doing today. I'm sure we're not sending a good message. So we could have talked, we should have talked, but not to destroy the dignity of humanity, dignity and those honorable functions that we represent here today before our entry into the European Union, colleagues and colleagues, which is the Croatian Parliament, our Parliament and our largest representative home. Until some time ago, we brought a declaration, and you can see that Croatian citizens also supported the work of the Croatian Parliament with the laws that we adapted to Croatia's entry into the European Union. It should also be noted that our government led our President, Mrs Kosor, in the past two-and-a-half years, has two-and-a-half times reduced the salaries and pensions of parliamentary deputies and employees' salaries by 5%. And this was our measure to respond to the current economic situation in Croatia, which is that, therefore, we have preserved state finances, that we have not provided regular salaries and pensions to all workers and citizens whose salaries we did not make available to the workers at that time, and that at the most difficult times of the economic crisis, we have not missed any salaries or pensions for the workers. When you were comparing European countries in your proposal for legislation, Mr. Ministers, given that one important and important topic could be tried and at least specify which countries some of these 16 countries are and what comparisons you have proposed in the law to reflect on the Republic of Croatia that no comparison in the law exists. It writes some countries, some European countries, some environment. The law reads that there is a disproportionateness in the countries of the European Union and that you should have made sure to present this disproportionateity here in the Croatian Parliament, because this is a topic for you, Mr. Ministers and for us representatives and for all future meetings of the Croatian Parliament very important. So we are talking about that we are not against the proposal to compare parliamentary representatives' pensions with the general regulations of the pension system, but we are against that of a colleague and colleagues who, in your bill of law, are inconsistencies, that you left out other state officials in the bill, so we should also mention the President of the Republic of Croatia who is also a politician and state official who was elected in the elections and who received support from the voters of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the HDZ Club submitted a bill yesterday where we propose to amend Article 17. The law on the rights of state officials, that the President of the Republic of Croatia also complies with the pensions of MPs and other state officials. You can also think about some other categories of pensions, which are NOB pensions and those categories that you should therefore consider when you suggest such a thing. In particular, it should be pointed out that when you went to such provisions, you forgot to abandon members of the former Governments of the Republic of Croatia in the first part of the law, and that you mentioned it in the light of the Law in Article 2. Also, I warn you again about the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Today you have proposed amendments in front of the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs on Article 5 of the Law which does not change at all. Therefore, it is not possible to put amendments to an article of the law which does not foresee amending the law, so here you are again not to be overly criticised we call on you to read the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and to give the amendments to the laws and articles of the laws that are being amended. If they do not change, you do not have the right to change this article under the Rules of Procedure. And one more thing. The academics of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts are also here with your proposals declared a political elite. My colleagues and colleagues, the academics of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts are not politicians chosen in the elections but are scientists, doctors of science who should absolutely not have their place in such bill proposals. The Croatian Democratic Community Club is abstentioned for the bill you put into practice for one reason why all the rights you want to align, reduce, you did not foresee for all categories of Croatian citizens, so here we invite you to consider, consider that this law should be amended. To consider the office of former presidents, whether it takes so much money, insurance, 90% pension, staff, car driver, and whether there are other categories where it can be saved, primarily for the benefit of Croatian citizens, rather than introducing a 25% tax and more expensive fuel. You throw the fog into the eyes of those who certainly depend on it every day of their lives and their future destiny. Once again, colleagues and colleagues I invite you to the dignity of the Croatian Assembly, once again I tell you the HDZ Club is restrained, and this Assembly is considered an honorary Croatian Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1913	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to Mr. Minister, I would just like to inform you that Article 207(2) is in line with Article 207. The Rules of Procedure have expired until 10 minutes and I say to Mr. Salapic that those amendments that will not be submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure will not be put to the vote. So it's very simple and decisive. And thank you for your contribution, for noticing that. So I expect my colleagues to do it that way in the future. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1914	Your Honor, Mr. President, when we talk about this bill of law, the bill goes to clean up first at its doorstep so that others can be thought about afterwards. So, I'm personally sorry that the HDZ club won't support this law for obvious political reasons, but it's always a good thing to clean up first at its doorstep so you can judge and talk about others. As for the exercise of the right of officials to retire under favourable conditions in EU countries, we have done so, we have, if you want, we will deliver it to you. So we didn't in the very reason of the law want to explain to each country how it was done, but if you want, we can deliver it to you. So of the EU countries, 16 of which we have data, there are no pension-specific rights for officials. It is Latvia, Lithuania, Great Britain, Hungary, Portugal, Slovenia, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, the Republic of Austria and Poland. So they don't have any special conditions for retirement. Six countries, Germany, Denmark, Finland, Italy, Sweden and Romania have some approximately privileged pensions, some of which raise preferential pension conditions and levels such as Germany, Romania and Italy, which only do so for MPs, but not for government members. Finland prescribes privileged conditions for all officials on condition that they are not employed after the end of the term of office, and Denmark prescribes only preferential conditions and that the pension is determined as well as for all civil servants. While Sweden prescribes an exemption from the general rules in terms of early time-limited pension. So it is evident from this that each country has a different way of regulating pensions for its parliamentarians while most EU countries do not. As far as other officials not covered by this law are concerned, the Government will very soon propose to amend the Law on the Rights and Obligations of Officials. For all those officials who were not covered by this law, what we said and promised to do first with parliamentary pensions, and that after that, other laws would be passed, amendments to other laws relating to other state officials. We will also regulate these amendments to the right of MPs to return to their posts after the end of the term of office, which is not resolved by the current regulations and, as we know, many parliamentary representatives have problems. So that's one whole solution that we're going to solve, and that part that's missing in the current legislation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1915	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1916	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, I'd like to correct Mr. Secretary's imprecise that the HDZ Club will not support this law for our political reasons. In fact, we will not support the law, or we will be abstentioned because of what we have asked for when the agenda is established that the law is not in the emergency procedure but to discuss it in two readings because there is really no reason for haste. Namely, all the MPs who could... all MPs who could have obtained the right under the previous law have already made a request. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] Therefore, there is no reason for urgency when this assembly under this law is called upon by law, it could only be obtained by the time this mandate is completed. Therefore, there is no need and urgency. We could have discussed all these irregularities in the law in normal procedure and then the HDZ club would have supported that law. Therefore, Mr. Minister, you are our request that the law go into the regular procedure you did not accept for your political reasons, and I think it is already... Any words. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1917	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1918	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Few have been challenging and challenging the interest of the entire Croatian public recently, as is the case with today's bill of law. And rightly so. The Republic of Croatia has been experiencing a severe economic crisis in recent years, an overall economic crisis, but the social picture of our country is the least said, very, very worrying, in some parts and more. There are more than 300 thousand unemployed, tens of thousands of workers who work, but for their work they don't get paid, pensioners with their poor pensions not only make ends meet themselves, but of these and such pensions in many cases even feed their children who are losing their jobs every day. Not so rarely, these miserable pensions are the only source and straw of salvation even to enable the continuation or completion of schooling and their grandchildren. And young people, after completing heavy schooling in the vast majority, join the army of unemployed and break the doors of the Employment Service in search of any job. Many Croatian citizens on the verge of hunger are digging through containers mostly collecting bottles to at least secure a crust of bread for the day. The soup kitchens are truly the only salvation. And we also witness the shameful fact that the state has been ruthlessly robbed for the past eight years by our own Croatian authorities, by those who have received the citizens' trust to lead them into a better life. And here we are on the verge of destruction. A little over a month ago, we got a new power. A government that promised Croatian citizens a way out of the crisis and promised hopelessness on the way to recovery and a return to hope that a better and more decent man can live in Croatia. One of the pre-election promises of today's new Croatian government was this which we are discussing today, the abolition of the privileged pensions of MPs in the Croatian Parliament. It is hard to live in Croatia today, most citizens are hard to live in but not all. Not all Croatian citizens wear the same burden of crisis on their backs. Among those who do not share the burden of the crisis with their citizens are certainly who should represent their citizens and we are parliamentary representatives. No one in a righteous society should be more equal than others, for a long time ago said Martin Luther King injustice anywhere the threat of justice is everywhere so with so often mentioned and disputed rights of parliamentary representatives to so-called so-called. Preferred pension i.e. a pension to be determined under more favourable conditions. And that this should be changed there is no dilemma, on the contrary, which can justify the fact that such a right was acquired only after two years and one day sitting in the assembly benches and then obtaining the right to a pension that is 3.8 times the average pension of Croatian citizens who have made their pension according to the general regulation mainly working for it for a whole working life of 35 or 40 years. For this reason, the HDSSB's Club supports the adoption of this law because every normal society will respect the principles not only of solidarity but of justice but of the fact that so far the legal solutions were neither in the spirit of solidarity nor in the spirit of justice. Even though she is legal and fair, the truth of Branislav Nusic's sentence should not be forgotten. Justice is often more difficult than injustice, so today's bill should be adopted, especially if it is borne in mind that although legal solutions from other European countries are already unequal, and that there is no uniform rule and that the conditions of acquisition and the level of pension vary from country to country, the fact is that all these legal solutions in other countries still have something in common, and this is that there is no such disproportionateness at the level of retirement achieved under the general regulation in relation to the parliamentary pension. However, the necessity of applying the principle of solidarity and justice must concern some other groups whose pension is determined under more favourable conditions, are not just parliamentary representatives and members of the government. Not only in light of the total savings that will be the result of the abolition of these parliamentary pensions. Mr. Minister said yesterday at a meeting of the Board of Selection and Appointing, that this Law would result in savings of around 25 to 30 million kuna, which, compared to more than 35 billion kuna, costing the pension system less than 1 promo. But more important than saving itself is the message that they are seeking there that they cannot and must not be freed from carrying their burden of leaving the crisis and parliamentary representatives and members of the government, especially since they are themselves very important factors not only of origin but also of this crisis in Croatia. But it is very important to analyse both the real financial burdens and the savings that will follow with these measures. In the opening statement of today's bill, the average pension was set according to the general rules in September 2011 at 2364.77 kuna. By contrast, in the same month, the average pension of parliamentary deputies was 8906, 06 kuna or 3.77 times higher. Such are the privileged pensions of parliamentary representatives and members of the Government on 30. Nine. 2011 was a total of 542. In total, these 542 pensions cost the country a little less than $58 million a year. But let us analyze some others at the very least very interesting and in some cases a little strange data. In the Republic of Croatia there are 13 categories of users so-called Preferred pensions. According to data available in statistical information from the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute and it is here, number 3. In 2011 from October of last year, Table 16 on page 30 stated that a total of 173,000 199 of such preferential pensions and we are talking about 542 parliamentary preferential pensions. Among these 173 thousand are the 542 pensions of parliamentarians who annually cost the state 57 million 925 thousand 14 kuna and 24 June. Let's look at some more categories of users of these privileged pensions that are there and see how much they burden the pension system. I'm going to give an example that was mentioned here. Participants in the People's Liberation War, 34 thousand and 755 users with an average pension of 2666.86 kuna. I'm the amount of this preferential pension is not so significant above the ordinary average pension, but it is. But when it's calculated how much this year's cost is then there's a billion, 112 million, 240 thousand, 631,60 kuna. More than a billion kuna. In relation to those less than 1 year of congregation pensions, this is a burden of approximately 3 % of the total burden of the pension system. Therefore, the pensions of NOR participants annually cost a pension system of more than 1.1 billion kuna and 19.2 times more than the privileged parliamentary and pensions of government members. The privileged parliamentary pensions of the members of the government should be abolished because they burden the pension system, but what these also privileged pensions of the NOR participants do to the same system, without contesting at all the right of NOR participants to have those pensions. There's something else I'd like to point out. What's odd to me at least is the number of those pensions of the People's Liberation War participants. These are pensions relating to NOR participants from 6 April 41 to 15 May 45. During II. In the world war, Croatia had the most massive resistance movement compared to the population and suffered relatively large casualties. According to available data, Croatia had a 251 partisan squad, 78 brigades and 17 divisions. Of the 7 Corps 5 were Croatian and in the last 5 months II. The world war totaled 200 Croatian NOR fighters. According to data, as many as 70% of the fighters were under 25 years old. So let's analyze it a little bit now, from the end of II. World War II until September 2011, 66 years passed, so 66 years later we in the Republic of Croatia have 34 thousand 755 users of pensions of war participants. And at the end of the war there were 200 thousand fighters in the Croatian NOR squads, is this unusual? Already mentioned that more than 70 of those 200 thousand were under 25 years old, so 14 thousand of them. In 2011, 66 years later, they would be at least 91 years old. Let us now look at some other data, according to a document assessing the population of the Republic of Croatia in 2010 published by the State Statistics Office of the Republic of Croatia on 15 September of last year, in 2010 there were 56 thousand 565 people aged 85 or more, and of which 14 thousand 289 men and 42 thousand 270 women. Not reducing the role and representation of women in NOR, it is clear that the largest number of NOR residents were made up of men. And in the Republic of Croatia today there are slightly more than 14 thousand men over 85 years old, and we have 34 thousand 755 users of privileged pensions of NOR participants. Knowing that there are family members among them, aren't these data strange after all? Do we really still have tens of thousands alive in Croatia today of 90-year-old NOR participants? If we don't have who is then receiving those pensions, when their children should be about 65 years old today, and according to the same document that I mentioned the person and age at the end of 2010, there were 37 thousand 603. Well, it's almost amazing now that all those kids are a NOR participant. And I repeat, these 34 thousand 755 preferential pensions of NOR participants annually cost the RH pension system more than 1.1 billion kuna. So it would be good to check whether there are indeed 67 years after World War II today, just 34 thousand 755 people who deserve to receive this pension. And here's another example. Members of former JNA 10 thousand 269 users with an average preferential pension of 2 thousand 960.31 kn. The annual cost of these preferential pensions is 364 million 792 thousand 80.68 kn. I'm reminding you of the corporate pensions of 57 million and 900 and something. The preferential parliamentary pensions and pensions of government members should be abolished, as those with 57 million 925 thousand 14.24 pounds per year burden the pension system that needs to be charged. But whether we should also consider discharging this system with an item that burdens it with more than 364 million kuna a year, which is 6.3 times higher, I mean the privileged pensions of senior JNA members. Here is another mention of Parliament's Executive Council, the Federal Executive Council and administratively retired public officials. 238 persons with an average pension of 2 thousand 765.66 kn. Almost 7 million kunas a year. And there's a federal chamber with almost 3 million kunas, 70 users of 3 thousand 543.66 kn. These were just some examples that must and should be discussed when talking about discharge of the pension system, but the fact is that there is no real discharge of the pension system as long as the ratio of pensioners and employees is 1:1,2. This cannot endure the richest countries of the world, let alone Croatia. Finally, parliamentary representatives and members of the government must bear the burden of a comprehensive crisis that is shaking Croatia because we have given not a little pain to the crisis itself, which by doing what is not done, because it must never be stopped now that the crisis would be much less so for all Croatian citizens probably something more bearable that it was not without the use of the robbery of my own people that I have already told you about. Therefore, in all austerity measures, there is no need to forget the need to find a way to return what has been robbed to the people and because it can't be worth the rule "He who has pitted, pitted," but according to the old people, it should be "Return what you have done". And for parliamentarians from the ruling majority of that time, the abolition of preferential pensions should be the minimum penalty. The HDSB Club supports the adoption of this law, noting that all facts are discussed and presented in today's debate and other ways of discharging the pension system. In the end, this is the fulfillment of the pre-election promises of the new government, but be sure that we MPs from the Croatian Parliament, as well as the entire Croatian public, will closely monitor and monitor the fulfillment of all the promises set out in Plan 21. Because this law may well be removed as the distinguished colleague Hrelja, a pebble from the shoes of Croatian citizens, said. But don't forget that without that pebble, the hungry remain hungry, the unemployed remain unemployed, the poor remain poor, and that is why removing only the stones from our Croatian citizens' shoes that sting, we won't achieve anything to solve what they really expect from us, which is to solve their life problems and bring back hope that they can really live better in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1919	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect quote by Mr. Representative Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1920	I am correcting the incorrect quote of my fellow Buric, who said that so far in two years and one day someone could have had a pension 3.8 times the pension that belongs to other citizens for an average salary. That's not true. It is true that this pension could have been 7.6 times larger, not 3.8 times and could have reached 17,000. And that's a real argument in a lack of law. And secondly, I would protect these pensions of NOB or NOR participants who have been reduced three times, and you need to know that. They have been reduced three times, and some of them are certainly less than pensions that would belong to these people under the general rules. And you also need to know why there are so many, because after retirement, the most logical thing is that there is a right.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1921	Time's up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1922	... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1923	We're starting an individual discussion. In an individual debate, Don Ivan Grubisic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1924	I welcome the adoption of this law because in the Independent List of the Alliance for Civil Ethics of Croatia, we have noted that we should insist that as much as possible before the law we are all equal, especially when it comes to the use of taxpayers' money. We had an even more radical view, that all preferential pensions should be paid, as Croatia is in an exceptional material, moral and spiritual crisis. That's why the two of us in the Civil Ethics Association of Croatia will surely support this bill, but in my opinion it's just the beginning of a solution to that strategy that started in the 1990s when we expected much more radical measures but we didn't experience them. Therefore, the question when it has already been pointed out that the fish is being cleaned from the head, and so it should be, then we are also to begin the Croatian Parliament in view of the crisis, but it is time-predictable and to return some privileges when Croatia comes out of the crisis. Thus, one of the members of the European Community when she found herself in a situation similar to that of us frozen salaries and pensions on the status where she is now, reduced the administration to 126 civil servants and we will not be able to do so drastically and should not be able to endanger certain jobs, but this should also be taken into account. This is not about the privileges that we give to the institutions, and when the crisis in the people is so stressed then these privileges should be done, not because we don't need the academy, which the church doesn't need but simply in a crisis we can't let someone go to waste bins and someone really lives well and with dignity. So these are comments with the support of this law, but I think that this is just the beginning to work with, and we suggest that parliamentary deputies show by example that they are here for the sake of the people, not the people for our sake, to get two average salaries in Croatia as the salaries of a parliamentary representative because average salaries, travel expenses and daily fees, and the rest all to go to the budget of the state not to be impoverished, and to get out of these suspensions of preferential pensions or institutions, and also to the parliamentary representatives to go to the fund for the opening of new jobs and to introduce new technologies because only Croatia can get out of this crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1925	Thank you very much. In an individual debate further, Mr. Representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1926	The Honorable President, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The injustices in Croatian society were also encouraged by among others the Croatian Parliament above which, they said in time, was only God. However, it seems that above the Croatian Parliament were the interests of the political elite. Preferred pensions are immoral, they are undeserved privilege. As Mr. Lesar said before, in 1995, the political elite wanted to take care of herself because she didn't have enough. Someone said these days if it's legal then it must be moral. That's not true. We know that there are laws that were in force at the time of privatisation and conversion, which are immoral and this law that is likely to be abolished today was immoral. Why would anyone in a society that advocates equality and righteousness be privileged? We will be a righteous society when no one dares defend privileges in this home. In previous discussions, it was said that we would be above or that the president of the state would be moral vertical if we or him were to be reduced to a general civil measure. Above can be work and knowledge, and moral verticals do not become a function and neither does the presidential but the honesty of which in politics, you yourself are aware, has very little. Privileges have been paid and will pay for years and decades because many have retired very young, at the age of 40 and the poorest. This law is also a matter of morality. This topic is not a demagogue topic, this topic is a matter of justice and injustice. Let's take care of the citizens first, that's our duty. And no benefits can be paid from the pension fund or the other 12 categories. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1927	Thank you very much. The next word came from Mrs. Djurdzica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1928	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, or President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's what I'm hearing today, all these discussions, and I want to say next. All of us, and I'm sure most of us sitting here in the Croatian Parliament are sitting because we are honorable politicians, because we came not for someone like Mr. Hrelja and some of the MPs said, there are some scams, but because we have worked in our parties with value and honor and we have been on the lists. For me personally and for representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community being a parliamentary representative is an honor. What I want to say at the beginning, of course, is that this law is not against him, Mr. Minister, but we simply want this law to go into a regular procedure in order to talk about officials as well, but also about the president of the state. Because I agree with my colleague earlier on what he was saying, the moral vertical is not the president of the state in its own right and function, nor was the moral verticalist himself in his own capacity and function, but rather the way he works with honor, the way he stands for himself. What is clear to the people of Croatia today is that it is not the most important law in Croatia today that this law is passed and proposed but that it is much more important to wait for us, it is an increase in VAT to 25%, it is a series of purchases of gasoline, gas, utility, until yesterday we heard that the consumer basket grows to 100 kuna. It's not about the government, it's about that sort of thing, but it's about the citizens who were shot by Mr. Hrelja in the election campaign, so let's go have some fun this way. Of course, pensions need to be harmonised and none of us, I think, I am sure for HDZ representatives, did not just enter to exercise the right to retire but to represent their ideas and to represent Croatian citizens. What I was about to say was that this is really a demagogue thing. We really at the HDZ Club, and I personally think that pensions should be equalised, but we need to equalise the pensions of all of the presidents of the state, as I see it, given that a little bit has been denied. Now it's been suggested for five years that he has no driver, no offices, etc. For what? So if the morals were vertical, the president of the state, I think we're all parliamentary representatives just as much as we hold on to it. We all have our jobs, our titles and our occupations, our masters. Master's degree, Ph.D., professions are our professional verticals. But here being in the Croatian Parliament is an honor and that is one I would say the highlight of a political engagement in society. So, they need Croatian citizens to know we are not about to get even, we are because the government of Mrs. Jadranka Kosor has reduced both salaries and pensions twice, and no one against that. It abolished the privileges of parliamentary representatives on different transports, abolished buying, not buying, but taking free newspapers, abolished free coffee, and some SDP representatives made fun of it in particular. They thought it was nothing, but here it is today, the other day I'm driving on a tram or a climber and they say don't you have a ma'am for free? I say no. So who cut you off? I say Mrs. Kosor. Well, the praf did. It's the praf she made and we wanted to show besides that we could also pay and we'll pay. Yeah, you don't drive planes anymore, but as we can see, you don't talk about how ministers and other officials drive, which is business class. The cards are back, so let's have it. Mrs. Kosor's government put an end to it, and she laughed a little bit, but to everything that laughed, of course, you're coming back. The only one of the promises that this is from today in this law we speak, and the citizens did not vote for you because you said you would raise taxes and VAT to 25%, that you would politicise both state and public administration. That's not why they voted, and that's not why they voted. This is something that goes by itself. But when it unites all government officials and the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1929	Thank you very much. I remember when I worked in the President's office I had as head of the office two cards for two years, but I never used them. It's just a means of payment. If you find yourself in such a situation that you can't because you have the one you have to worry about, that's it. Yeah, yeah, like you didn't. Thank you very much. Mr. Silvano Hrelja, you're welcome. Correction of an incorrect quotation [[But I will, of course, refrain from it, Mr. Shakespeare. I will, I will. Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1930	I'm correcting the inaccuracies of my colleague, Đurjica Sumrak, that I said that someone allegedly became a congressman. That's absolutely not said. I said that we all became parliamentary representatives by choice, so in our positions on the lists, and that's the only legitimate way to become parliamentary representatives. The only one who became an independent representative is Don Grubisic and his colleague this time and for the first time in the Croatian Parliament. So we've all come with some lists and there's no dilemma. And I would only comment "where will the tears go than the eye".
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1931	Infringement of the Rules of Procedure of Madam Representative twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1932	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. You have injured Article 219 and Articles 2014 and 209. First I didn't mention you at all, you see how the tears were found you on your own eye out, but you insulted all of us in the Croatian Parliament saying that the government proposed this law to start cleaning up, to smell the fish from the head, to be cleaned from the tail, and you said this law we came from the head. It is. [[Please, it's really not a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Please!]] It's an insult. Excuse me, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1933	Please don't! We said we would. Thank you very much. That we'll stick to the Rules of Procedure as much as we can, of course all together until we perfect it a little bit. Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1934	Thank you, Mr. President. Here I will purposely use the instrument of replica, that there should not be a later violation of the Rules of Procedure. I have to look back at your exposure, and in part I see that you are repeating it, so I didn't want to react immediately when my colleague Salapic was talking about the part about how it should be the same for everyone, so also for the President of the Republic, etc. I'm the last one to defend whether or not I should. We're talking about the president's institution. But it's unusual for you to talk about it, it's really unusual for you to speak in front of HDZ when you, as a club, and during your authority, gave all the benefits to former President Stjepan Mesic. So if anyone doesn't have the right to talk about it then it's you from HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1935	Thank you. The answer to the replica of Mrs. Djurjica Sumrak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1936	Thank you, sir. Well, my colleague, I've listened very carefully to your exposure before and rarely, but I've agreed with a lot of what you've said. I wouldn't agree with you at this conclusion right now, if it were you who kept Mr. Mesic. No, that's exactly what the law was, so no one rebelled on either side or on the other side. But if today we're moving in a way that we're going to even everything up, so my question is still why isn't Mr. Milanovic's government proposing that we deal with all this now in one normal procedure, we don't need an emergency procedure. Because as we've heard, this law will only begin to apply in three to three and a half years. So there is time, but they wanted to set something up quickly to throw something else or, as I told them on the board, to throw a little smoke in the eyes of all Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1937	Thank you very much. Next, Mr. Representative Zeljko Schamper signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1938	Mr. President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. At first, I want to remind you of the situation in the pension system of the Republic of Croatia where some laws were passed quickly and to the harm of some generations of pensioners, and then it takes 7 or 8 years to correct the injustice. It started in '93. until '98. the years with the illegal alignment of pensions so-called old pensioners according to Valentiæ's regulations. In order to repair the damages following the 1998 Constitutional Court's decision on compensation, it took 8 years to pay off the first war. The start of pension reform and the application of the new restrictive Pension Insurance Act of 1 January 1999. the years have been damaged, so-called. "new pensioners" who today have less pensions for 450 kuna compared to those retired by the end of '98. A year. At present, 600,000 new pensioners have saved €3.2 billion annually and this is an approximate effect for the budget that will increase VAT from 23% to 25%. Up until two months before the election, there was also a problem of retired second-degree cells between 40 and 50 years ago, not to mention 3% of the health contributions paid by 22 thousand pensioners over 5 108 kuna for three years. And the Constitutional Court has kept silent for 3 years at the request of an assessment of the constitutionality of such a provision. And at the end of the pearl that is unknown about such a number of users in Europe, 13 types of pensions under special laws where out of 35 billion pension expenditures, as much as 7 wastes on 170 thousand of their users. Here is finally today a proposal to amend one of these laws that corrects one major injustice in the pension system, which is too disproportionate to the level of average pensions of Parliament's representatives of 8 906 kuna compared to the average pension under the Pension Insurance Act, which now stood at 2 151.12 kuna for December 2011. In the received materials for this session, it is wrong to state that the average pension under the general rules is 2 364.77 kuna because it is the average pension of all pensioners where branches like the Croatian Army, Croatian defenders and HVO are included. The average pension of parliamentary deputies is 4 times higher than the pensions under the general rules and it is a shame that the EU does not want to interfere with the laws of the Croatian pension system. What it looks like in organised EU countries shows is an example of a Swedish country where it goes to parliamentary retirement at the age of 12, so 3 mandates, spent in Parliament and 65 years of life. With one term and 60 years, or 55 years of life for women. The basis for calculating pensions in Sweden is the average salary in the last 5 years. With us, it's the last constituency pay. The average Swedish salary is around 20,500 kuna, a representative salary of around 33,000 kuna, and the Swedish parliamentary pension is about 21,000 kuna. Therefore, the agent's pension and the average Swedish salary are in proportion 1 to 1. What are the relations in the pension system of Croatia? The basis for calculating the parliamentary pension is the last salary. Until '98. According to the Pension and Property Insurance Act, it was 10 years... and since 2009 according to the Pension Insurance Act for the whole working life. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This and other retirement conditions have led to large disproportionate pensions of two generations and various types of pensions. For years, I've been asking myself as a pensioner why do we have such differences in pensions among generations of pensioners, and why did the political elite build such privileged conditions? So I found that reason for too many high-priority pensions. In one diary, the late President Tudjman explained that too. I quote: "Such high pensions are a reward for all those who could not get to work in communism.", finished quote. If that's what happened then there's been no such citizens in these benches for a number of years. With the support of pensioners' associations, the Croatian Party has proposed for years the principle of equality and fairness and retirement of all under one single law where the only elements for calculating a fair pension will be wages and contributions paid, years of employment and life as well as the type of pension. Until today, there was no political will for such a solution, but today we have an opportunity to correct one of these injustices that will only affect this VII. The assembly of the Parliament, but unfortunately not retired before the entry into force of this law. Retired and retired associations express bitterness with their statements as they say because of the immoral process of a few of our colleagues. "one-day pensioners" who performed a dribbling that wouldn't be embarrassed by a football wizard named Lionel Messi. It should be acknowledged that this is in line with the law, but whether it is morally fair and honorable at the time when the state is in a difficult economic and economic state will evaluate Croatian citizens. He's got to remind himself what a pension is. Mirovina is a monthly fee obtained by the right of a person by means of insurance and by payment of contributions for the case of age, disability and death and under the conditions laid down by law. So retirement is a permanent state, not a law enforcement institute. Although we often hear that according to the Constitution there is no retroactive action of the law, legal experts mention one provision of the Constitution that may allow it. I quote: "For particularly justified reasons only certain provisions of the law can have a return effect.", finished quote. The economic and economic situation in the Republic of Croatia is probably a valid reason for the pensions of the current 542 parliamentary deputies, as well as these 46 potential MPs who, at the end of the last year, submitted their pension applications in the right stampede. In this act they showed that God had made his beard first, and these same representatives two years ago without remorse raised their hand to freeze pensions, so to speak. "ordinary pensioners." Finally, HSU supports this amendment to the Law on Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament with the hope that this is only the first step in resolving the remaining injustices in the pension system of the Republic of Croatia, and in accordance with the principles of equality and justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1939	Thank you. We have a replica, Mr. Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1940	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My dear colleague, you spoke of injustice and the pension system. I must say, I absolutely support this law, but this is no stone in the shoe was, it was one stake in the eye. On the other hand, we still have the balvana in the eye that probably neither this Parliament will draw nor the government will ever be able to implement, and that is the revision of conversion and privatisation and the crime itself in the conversion and privatisation from which what we now have in Croatia and came. You're talking about the principle of justice and equality, I don't see much reason why it's going to happen until those management contracts in the companies that are mostly owned by the state, until all the huge severances that these directors receive, etc., and ultimately until this law is retroactive. On the other hand, on Monday, on Friday, when it is voted and published in the National Journal next week, I do not see that the principle of justice and equality will win with that ordinary pensioner. Here, for example. At my father's, who's worked fair for 45 years and now has a pension somewhere around 2000 kuna that's not enough for him and his mother to survive for a month. HE DID not save some money for old age while working 45 years in PIC Djakovo that no longer exists today. We are talking today about privileged pensions and I agree that they should be abolished but we better talk about how to make bigger pensions possible for both workers and peasants. That they don't dig through garbage cans and don't collect packaging and drive to various malls to survive from 1st to 1st. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1941	Thank you, we have a reply to Mr. Schamper's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1942	I agree somewhat with what my colleague said, however, we need to start these preferential pensions, especially when they were up to 17 thousand 700 kuna, to show maximum that we want to introduce justice and justice. We pensioners know well how we live and we are not megalomaniacs and we know that under number one, the increase in our pensions, these low-income, is that only growth in the economy and new employment, and we in our families have our children, our grandchildren, who with these little pensions are supported because 150 thousand young people are at the employment office. So, this is just hoping for the first step and we want to move on to correct all these perceived injustices especially in privileged pensions thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1943	Thank you. Next up for debate Mr. Representative Zeljko Rainer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1944	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. It is quite certain that it is a law that is exclusively demagogue and populist. Of course, it is not a proof of any justice and that there is no evidence of a fair relationship with pensions, because that is the case here is now very clear, it would have made it very clear that the low pensions of people who are rightly mentioned as having difficulty living, with very low pensions have increased, and they should be clearly told to the Croatian people and the pensioners by no law will be increased for the sake of the application of this Law. So it's doubtful that this is about one populist move. It is also very clear that the data have said that the application of this law will not mean any significant savings that we say about the state or profit for the state, especially when compared to some other expenditure for some other groups of pensioners that Buric spoke of. If, however, it is said, as the promoter said, he wanted to clean himself up at his own doorstep, then it would be true that it would have been the first to propose a reduction of pensions for ministers, or members of the government and, of course, the president as it was said. But it didn't seem like the first move, so it's interesting what it's like to clean in front of your own door. However, it seems to me that there is considerable evidence that it is demagogy when it is said that something is going to be saved and something to cut costs, etc., when we had the opportunity to read in the paper before day two, that a decision has been made by the government to, apart from the prime minister, Deputy Prime Ministers and Ministers now be able to drive with the expensive business class, Deputy Prime Ministers, Prime Minister, Prime Minister Chief Secretary, Head of State Offices, therefore, the vastly wider privileges of those who are at the top, members of the government, etc. They all got the right to an official car and a personal driver 24 hours a day and also unlimited use of a cell phone, use of a business card, so restrictions are lifted in a team that was introduced by the previous Government of Ms. Jadranka Kosor but are widely spreading some other privileges. So, unlimited use of mobile and business cards is now not only for the Prime Minister, Minister and Deputy Minister but also for the Deputy Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister, Head of the Office, even Deputy Head of the Office of the Prime Minister's Office, and then for the Prime Minister and even the Deputy Secretary of Government, and even the Head of State's Office, Head of the Tax Administration, Director of Customs Administration, Head of Police, Chief State Inspector, Head of State Treasury, Directors of All State Administration Organizations, all those who are politically appointed by the ruling coalition now have all these privileges. I just have to say something, for the time being most of you know that I was a deputy minister in the '90s, so then the minister as a deputy minister I drove the old Fiat Uno alone and about some business cards and business class I couldn't even dream of, and then as a minister of business I didn't have a business card and now we see that even lower-ranked ones close to the government would have those privileges. Therefore, also when it comes to those who are having a hard time earning their salary and pension, as the Minister of Labour and Pensions said, they, I assure you, have neither business cards nor personal drivers, nor a free unlimited mobile, so it becomes very clear what this is about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1945	Thank you. Mr. Secretary answered his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1946	I am sorry that HDZ does not want to talk about the law and support the law but uses this for a political debate on general political matters, but when we talk about the Terms of Use Regulation, not about the privileges but about the conditions for the use of official cars, mobiles, etc., this government has reduced the number of officials who have the right to do so, it has reduced the number of state secretaries, as you know, the number of state secretaries has been much higher than the current number of assistants under government regulations. On the other hand, the previous Government did not mention any of those listed in this Regulation, and it was possible that these officials would spend funds without controlling them. When we talk about cards, then cards are just cases when you go on official trips, and cards can be very easily controlled because you have a list of cards, and we don't get a government pilot when he pours fuel somewhere in a foreign country he has to carry a suitcase of euros or some other currency. So transparency is something that is important and we insist on transparency and therefore this is public data, so this regulation is published not on privileges but on conditions of use and it is known who has the right to do so. I'm sorry for trying to politicize around here, but here's the question I have to answer about the difficult condition of a pensioner. We talked about it on several occasions and said that pensioners and pensions are the last line of defense and that the pensions and rights our pensioners have will not touch. The government, headed by HDZ in the last term, froze Article 81, thus harmonising pensions with the cost of living and wages and did not increase pensions for our pensioners. So, I'm kind of weird about that concern for our pensioners, and at the same time, Article 81 is frozen. We have already said several times, and we realize that we have been applying this article since 1.1 this year, so there will be a harmonisation of pensions, and our pensioners will receive an increase in pensions in the month of March with delays for the first two months and with pensions in the 9th month. So I'm a little bit of an odd concern about the pensioners, and at the same time, pensioners' rights have been suspended in the past government. So, as far as the speed of the law is concerned, the law is very simple, the law puts all parliamentary representatives in the same basket as all those who work, hard to earn pay, and I don't think I'm talking about speed, but simply about justice and justice to bring it all down to the same level, and that means that Parliamentarians are going to retire like all those who at this point earn their bread by working for machines or somewhere else. As for other officials, other officials are also subject to changes under this law. What we have said is that the Government will refer to the parliamentary procedure of the Law amending the Law on the Rights and Obligations of Officials of State, so on those officials that are not covered by this law. But it was primarily what we stressed to keep our promise, and this government is going to keep pre-election promises, this is one of the ones we said. And the second is to first settle the matter in front of our doorstep so that we have the legitimacy to then settle other things in this area means the part where the rights and duties of government officials are spoken of. Very soon the bill will come to the Assembly, which will not only talk about pensions, but also about the part that speaks when and how a person can return to his post where he came to the Parliament or to the government or another post.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1947	Thank you. We have a correction to Agent Kosor's incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1948	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I'm correcting Mr. Secretary's incorrect claim that HDZ does not want to discuss this law or that it does not want to support it. That's not true, Mr. Minister. HDZ representatives are very much discussing this law and, as you well know, support the essence of the proposal. We, however, have made it clear in the agenda that the law is going into regular procedure to ask for state officials, and the official is also the president of the Republic of Croatia, equally in this system. And that's what we're talking about and we have a right to talk about. And we certainly have the right to talk about our political views, about your political views that you will not achieve anything in terms of saving, but on the other hand, you have opened a huge space to strengthen the privileges of members of the executive or executive authority. Of cards, card use, number of persons who can use cards for representation, travel etc. It's not just about the expansion as academic Rainer said, the use, the airline tickets for the business class, but with the First Class. So that's what this is about. The number of people who will be able to do this and who can now use it in your government is higher and, of course, the cost is higher. And certainly HDZ representatives have the right to talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1949	Time. Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1950	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here I am correcting the inaccuracies of the minister who said the secretary of state was less than the current assistants. The figures are inexcusable, it is incorrect and the untrues that were made on the occasion of the amendment of the Government Act and the State Administration System Act are repeated. So far, there have been 60 secretaries, state secretaries and 16 ministers, and these were the only state officials. He now has the new law of 20 ministers plus 20 deputy ministers, plus 80 ministerial assistants. It is mainly 120 officials with coefficients that have been increased compared to the coefficients of the current state secretaries. So all the assistants were raised to the rank of the current secretary of state, and the deputy ministers were raised to higher rank. And that's the truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1951	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by MP Djurdjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1952	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, you said that HDZ doesn't want to talk about the law, but it draws attention and talks about other less important things. That's not true. That's an incorrect quote. The HDZ wants and talks about this bill, but wants the law extended. In this debate, I also wanted to hear about the dignity of the Croatian representative in the conditions under which he works, and we also want to talk about the conditions in which ministers and other state officials work. Well, I strongly suggest that they go to work in a car, let them pay for parking and let them not have a driver for 24 hours available, and also limit their use of cell phones because you're networked as members of the government I assume and normal use of cards. And that's where we're gonna save it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1953	Thank you. Individual discussion by representative Blažeković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1954	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. It's good to see you in this place for the first time. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Today's topic and today's amendment to the Law on the Rights of Delegations of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament spoke on behalf of the HNS Club, the president of the HNS Club, and we all clearly agree with this debate. And it seems to me that it is a good opportunity to look back at other than the constitutional and legal position of MPs and MPs and the political and general social importance of their work and the general perception of politicians in Croatia. The task of politics and politicians is ultimately one thing, to make the citizens or citizens a safer, simpler and happier life. Every man is born with guaranteed freedoms that no one can take away from him: the right to life, the right to freedom, the right to security and the right to happiness, and that is why the state is there to ensure that every individual, or individual, these rights. The multi-party is a democratic order that justifies representative democracy, puts political parties and politicians in a position of real policymakers against the media and the interested public who are critical of and reacting to politicians' moves and decisions. This should thus be simplified by modern political theory. It should certainly be pointed out that every age is different and that the context of politics and society is changing, and we are changing a little faster than in most European countries. For example. Today, the circumstances and topics of politics in Croatia are much different than on 1 July 2011 when negotiations with the European Union were concluded and something different than before the referendum on 22 January this year. In fact, circumstances are different but the purpose remains the same. Politicians, politicians are here to make life safer, simpler, happier for citizens. The key to the happiness of civil freedom and through it the realisation of personal desires, ambitions, talents of every citizen or citizen, and citizens and citizens with full right are less or more uninterestedly following the work of politicians and giving them or not trust in the elections. It would be good if they were more interested and more involved during the election cycle, but that's another topic. I would like to take advantage of this topic and speak in just a few highlights about the dignity or lack of the dignity of our politicians, and the dignity and credibility of politicians and politicians is a Croatian problem and it is not necessary to lamentate too much about it. It all started in the early '90s. After the initial enthusiasm and huge expectations of Croatian citizens and citizens, and after the start of the multi-party and referendum on the legitimate creation of its own state, the process of destroying the reputation of politicians began to date, including politics. Although quickly forgotten, when we remember a little bit, we will remember the general romanticism of that home and the enormous amounts of national pride and euphoria created in the hope that we will get an automatic and better life with our country. Different circumstances, and the reality of life has denied us. Romanticism of Croatian citizens did not go down with the beginning of the war, and in some layers of citizenship remained very long after the war and even today under certain specific circumstances. The public and obvious collapse of credibility and the reputation of politicians and politics began at the very beginnings of the so-called Croatian statehood during the war when the political decision started to convert and privatise. The political decisions of the privatisation methods destroyed the production plants, destroyed the entire industry, disappeared jobs. Allowing the unpunished and unfair robbery of the conversion and the privatisation procedures of politics and politicians opened Pandora's box of negative phenomena in society. It began to fall into the abyss of nepotism, crime, corruption. They were successful in happiness and skill, not smarter, more educated and more valuable. Social values have lost their meaning behind each other. Citizens and citizens became more dependent, more unhappy and unfree. Politicians have rightly become the most hated people in the country and the people citizens trust the least. A profession that works by its nature for the greater good has come down to a barustine that a decent man does not want to get close to so that he does not get infected with it. I think it's me, that the final or perhaps incomplete or key peak and the highest point of degradation or the kind of decade of such policies is the first charge and the escape at the end of the arrest of the former prime minister. Such a bad for society and the development of a society of riot policies, it seems to me that it is still experiencing its catharsis. From that moment on, the discovery of all known thieves, corruption and non-potistic affairs and, with the start of investigations and the processing of significant politicians and the politics of related politicians is under the pressure of the public and because of the impatience of such an impossible and unnatural position tries somehow to break away from the firm embrace of everything negative in society. Citizens expressed their clear desire for changes to such policies in recent elections. Therefore, it is the obligation of today's politicians, especially those elected to the Croatian Parliament and those elected to executive power not only by their own example, but at all times to engage in a public struggle to increase trust and credibility in politicians and politics. Today's amendment of the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, i.e. the abolition of the so-called Preferred peace stations could be the shooting of a starting gun for the Croatian citizens' confidence in their politicians' marathon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1955	Thank you. Mr. Secretary answered his word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1956	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Just to clarify some things about the number of officials in this government and the number of officials that were before. We had an unnumbered number, in the previous government we had an innumerable number of management directors who came by competition, and de facto they came by political will and we know that's the case. On the other hand we had, they weren't officials but they were officials, so we can put it in one context or another but that's it. On the other hand, we had an untold number of agencies, as far as I know, about 84 different agencies we had in the administration and management was neither better nor more effective than it was so far. What is the intensity of this government with the appointments of deputy and ministerial assistants is that when the government's mandate is completed, then these ministers and ministerial assistants leave together with the minister. So they don't stay in the public administration system that's been going on for the past 15 years, and that's why once they've come, they're always there and the others, and we want to come to the democratic principle that's in all the countries in Europe, that his team comes with the minister and that the team goes with the minister. Therefore, there is no increase in cost or labour price, the price of public administration is not increasing. Speaking of which... mentions other officials, noting that this is a law on parliamentary deputies where other officials are not covered. [[You don't understand.]] And I repeat again that it is in the process and will be in the procedure of the Law on Amendments to the Rights and Obligations of Other Officials not covered by this Act. Therefore, today we are talking about this Law and we want things cleaned up at their doorstep, so that we can talk about others. Because it's easier to talk about others when you apply the same rule to yourself. And when we talk about privileges, let's call the privileges of government officials, then it would be a clear position of the HDZ if we were to talk about it by Mr Ministers who had the same thing in the previous government. Therefore, I do not take this seriously, but as another attempt to reverse the debate in another direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1957	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations by Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1958	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, it would be nice if the Minister of Parliament had really spoken to the exact numbers, amounting to expenses, rather than sentences, so what am I correcting? I'm correcting the quote: "No increase in the cost of public administration" is not true. Besides, I'm correcting this quote. These aren't officials, but they were officials. I really don't know this statement in the legislative category. We had a law that stated who was in charge of State Secretary and Minister No. 76. Now we have a law on your new one that lists who the officials are. I'm 22. Government officials, 20 deputy ministers and 80 ministerial assistants with an increased coefficient compared to the previous law, the Croatian Democratic Community government's law. So that's the truth that it's not an increased cost. The cost has been greatly increased. We can calculate it in lip by the coefficients that you've voted and brought.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1959	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote by Mr. Representative Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1960	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, I am correcting or continuing to correct the incorrect allegations that my colleague Lovrin warned. The directors of management organisations within the ministry were officials, not state officials. That's what we've been warning all along that you've further politicized the state administration. They were in the civil servants' system. Now these jobs and the additional number of assistants have been abolished, not in some way, but surely by eradicating their jobs and declaring the assistant posts as duties. And not only are these officials by your amendments to the law. Officials are now becoming the chief director of the police, the director of the tax administration and the director of the customs administration that have been officials so far, and this should be added to the number Mrs Lovrin spoke of.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1961	Thank you. Correction, Mrs. Kosor's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1962	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I wanted to join my colleagues by certainly correcting Mr. Minister's incorrect allegations. It is definitely and these are the fact that the number of officials who have the right to additional use of cards has increased in this government. That's a fact. This will certainly be seen in the state budget, but we will look for a way to print at the end of the year a card that all these officials today can use unlimitedly. And secondly, the fact is that, as Col. Mlakar said, the directors were officials, and we have improved this system right during the negotiations for Croatia's entry into the European Union, where further depolitisation of the state administration was sought, and today this whole process has been brought back and we will wait for what reactions will be from the European Commission just following all the changes we have made And, Mr. Minister, I finally think that we who were members and members of the government have the right to talk about the facts. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]] on the trail we've been working on, and we've brought that mandate to an end. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1963	Thank you. Next up for debate, representative Mr Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1964	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here in Parliament, I have always been amazed by the ease of discussing and deciding the fates of tens of thousands of people. The discussion is peaceful, almost consecular, it's nice to agree and proportionately, simply with a few dissonant votes, it's concluded that, let's say, pensions freeze, so they're frozen for a year. And there's no big debate about it. We probably have a reason. When a subject like this comes to the discussion, this law comes to a discussion, then the discussion stops being calm, gets heated, becomes windy, and thus we just show how much it really takes to introduce justice into this society and introduce a new way of thinking. This law is politically good. He's good above all else because he's giving the message to optimism, so we'll start with justice, of course we'll start with ourselves. Short. He's good political and for pragmatic reasons. This government will obviously have to take moves that no one in the country will like or the very large majority will not like, and then it's good to go with a law like this to sort of amortize it, to get some social renegade. The economic law is, of course, insignificant in the context of money spinning in the Peace Fund 39 billion and these 20, 30 and perhaps not even so many millions, because these people who would get a privileged pension that they would not get still have the right to some kind of pension. They did something in their lifetime, most of the government officials. So they'd make some kind of pension if they didn't get what they'd get under the law we're breaking. This Law is politically correct because it promotes the principle of social justice. Classification of parliamentary representatives and other state officials listed in the category of citizens. So, not anymore in some category beyond that. However, what voters and citizens expect from this authority is to establish total social justice. So this is the beginning, this is the first step. If beyond this there is no next step to abolishing this right for all state officials, all privileged pensions should be considered and the privileges lifted. For behold the very word of privilege clearly speaks of that there are no privileges earned, there is merit, but no privileges earned. No one is privileged for their merits. Privilege is something obtained by the arbitration decision of some authority or authority in this case of the Croatian Parliament. In this role the state should be significant. Namely, there are 13 other categories of these so-called. "privileged" pensions that are not due to payments to the Peace Fund. And now some of them look back at other officials, some of them look back at the men of the People's Liberation War, but those sensitive categories aren't exactly talking. The categories of defenders, the categories of miners, that sort of thing. The fact that the merits and needs of these people will exist in the future as they do today. However, it is also a fact that these merits and needs cannot be alimated at the expense of those who for 40 or 45 years, as we have heard, are being paid into the Peace Fund. If the state needs to reward someone for having done something by an academic type, or because it is not by its own fault that they find themselves in such a situation as the Labin miners, then they need to reach the general state budget and buy 10 cars less, build a kilometer of roads less and allow these people to live with dignity. And not alimony it from the means of those who pay. The argument is likely to be a state out of the Peace Fund budget anyway, investing out of these 39 million about 18, 19 million approximately, and that argument is quite fine. However,... Billions of course, not millions. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you. But since the 1970s, in this country, we've advocated clean bills. To make sure that all the privileges are derived from the Peace Fund and alluded directly from the state budget. Then we will only see with this new fair bill how many Croatian workers can or cannot support Croatian pensioners and how much that relationship can survive or cannot survive. Today it is a confusing situation in which nothing is practically clear. I stand up for it, and I'm going to bet that all the privileges that will be and future of course are these and those, but that they get out of the pension insurance system because that's not where they belong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1965	Thank you. Next representative, Mr Tomislav Ivić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1966	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Personally, I have no objection to the suspension of privileged parliamentary pensions, but I hold the fully justified position of HDZ that there is no single reason for this law to be adopted by an urgent procedure, that it is absolutely justified that if it is said about the lifting of the privilege of then involving all government officials, not as it is now that some are left out. And Mrs Kosor's government in the past term is aware of just the difficult economic and social situation has tightened the conditions for reaching parliamentary pensions, 20% are a reduction in parliamentary pensions, and then parliamentarians can use public transport if they can be reduced. We haven't had a chance for a long time when we come to work parking and stuff. Thus, the rights of parliamentary representatives and state officials had been taken into account before. But what bothers me the most is that essentially by discussing this law we are not discussing those key problems when it comes to the pension system because this abolishing of the preferential pension will absolutely have no impact on the stabilisation of the pension system or will achieve savings so that in the future when it comes to the pension system it will be easier to breathe. The fact is that in Croatia there are currently about a million and 200 thousand pensioners, the fact is that only 15% of Croatian pensioners have completed a full-time job of 40 years and the fact is that 85% of pensioners in Croatia are in privileged pensions. Because they haven't worked full-time, they haven't spent 40 years in pension funds, and that way we can rightly say they're in privileged pensions. The illustrations work in one Germany this relationship is significantly different – 75% of the pensioners in Germany did their full-time work and paid 40 years in pension funds and used pensions. The fact is that the budget provides for a total amount of funds to pay millions and 200,000 pensions for Croatian pensioners is being allocated around 15 billion kuna. These are Mr. Minister's problems that we expected you to say in front of this Croatian Assembly how you think to maintain the pension system, how to improve it, improve it, and not, and agree with your colleagues, sell here cheap demagogy and populism. Because how much is it savings by abolishing this law? How much is that going to reflect on the pension fund? How much is this going to reflect on the state budget? We didn't hear that. Just like you listed a few countries, and you said there were 16. What about the other 11? There are therefore different forms of preferential retirement in the other 11 European countries. Why does Croatia have to be in this group or that group? We haven't heard that argument, Mr. Secretary. And I therefore believe that, although I agree in principle, in principle, I agree that it is necessary to abolish privileged parliamentary pensions and the HDZ club is not against but we have not heard the right reasons why this seems, in particular we have not heard the arguments supported by clear figures and we have not heard your opinions and views of the Government on key problems in the pension system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1967	Thank you. I have a replica of Mr. Representative Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1968	I would disagree, my colleague Ivić asked the question why Croatia does not follow those 11 countries or I do not know how many of them have some of the privileges, because Croatia is in an uninvited financial position, because Croatia is one of the few countries that is barely getting out of recession yet. Then, you told your colleague Ivić not by emergency procedure, this Law, I am by emergency procedure but I agree with you, all state officials by emergency procedure, do not leave the debtors of the first order, second row and talk only about one segment. And when you were talking about privileged that others who didn't fulfill full-time work were somehow privileged because they get pensions on the basis of what they paid into the pension fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1969	Thank you. We have Mr. Ivić's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1970	You know very well that the economic crisis, recession, financial problems are not specific to Croatia, but that all the countries of the world, including, of course, the European Union, have the same problems as Croatia. So that argument if you're talking about it absolutely doesn't stand. The fact that what I said about the fact that 85% of Croatian pensioners did not perform full-time work is in favour of what I did and claimed to be in a privileged pension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1971	Thank you. Next up for debate, MP Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1972	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. This morning, a debate on this political move, a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Preferred Pensions said a lot of things, I will not speak of, of course, fuel collection that is due to certain things that are far from the borders of Croatia, I will not talk about the need and justification of increasing VAT rates that are directly due to the quality of government in past years in these areas. But I'm going to look back on the need for this move that has a basis for very simple fundamental reasons. In fact, when we go outside this building and walk the streets of Zagreb and other Croatian cities, then we meet people who are affected by very directly by general conditions in Croatian society, we meet young people who have lost a real opportunity to education, we meet pensioners whose pensions are not enough for the lives of a man and for the achievement of all those rights guaranteed by the Croatian Constitution, we meet workers who do not receive wages and in such an environment the thing is not only political but human jurisdiction, to show one sign of solidarity with those people and to show that we are people who are worthy of their trust, to show that we are a meeting that can deal with the turbulence of the time in which we live. It is also common knowledge that crisis country systems are not easy to come out of the crisis. Getting out of the crisis is not just about quality decisions, good leadership, he's looking for two basic assumptions of people who are covered by a crisis or looking for trust, he's looking for hope. Hope that things can change and trust people you expect to implement decisions and lead you to that path out of the crisis. This measure will not bring as previous exhibitors have observed some huge financial savings in relation to our overall financial problems as a society but perhaps the beginning of a return to trust policy, perhaps the beginning of a return to the dignity of the parliamentary deputies who are being fair as the general dignity of Croatian politicians lost somewhere in these years of Croatian democracy, due to various things which are the authors of some colleagues and colleagues sitting together with us today in this House. It is time to return positive perception to Croatian citizens in Croatian politicians and to the people who lead them. Fear has been expressed, that is, that is, what will happen to young colleagues who are sitting here in the Assembly today, and perhaps in four years' time they won't be sitting, given my age I don't belong to the youngest or the oldest, I will surely be one of those who once they end their career as short as it is, will have to look for a new job and a new source of existence. It is not time for people who are afraid of life, those who are afraid of life and the challenges that are ahead of them, who are not confident enough and who do not trust themselves, who need to be provided with a parliamentary pension, is not the time for them today, it is time for people who have courage and who want to create assumptions that Croatian citizens can look into the tram tomorrow morning in the eyes of those pensioners who go to the beach, with an extremely low pension and with the standard that Croatian politics afforded it, let's be honest and let's face it all. For this reason, I call on all colleagues and colleagues to as a sign of principle and willingness to plant our backs together with Croatian citizens under the burden of this crisis to support this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1973	Thank you. Correction Mr. Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1974	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, I'd like to correct the incorrect assumption that we're going to return this measure to the council's representatives. We here do not depend on working books in the Croatian Parliament but depend on the will of Croatian citizens, we are chosen by voters. We are therefore employed by the voters and who of us after this assembly will depend on our abilities and on our contribution to the citizens and voters who have chosen us, our work book is not a employment office but our voters who have chosen us in the elections and that is the only truth and this measure is the destruction of the dignity of all of us distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1975	Thank you. Mr. Calmeta's next representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1976	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Here's what I'd have a few thoughts about this law. But first of all, I want to say that we are all sitting here with the will of the citizens and because the citizens have chosen us and given us their voice. And that is why I believe that we must share the fate of our citizens, or I would like to say that I absolutely support the amendments to this law and that we are all going under the General Pension Insurance Act. So there's no dilemma about me, and I support that. I don't doubt that this is a pre-election promise. Clearly, the political party in the pre-elections makes promises and wants them when it gets citizens' trust, and what was in this case is that it wants to resolve them and that promise is then realized. So, it is not in my opinion that this is all normal and in the context of the democratic and political struggle of individual parties in the fight for citizens' trust. As far as the emergency procedure is concerned, well, you've decided to be so as to first resolve the matter of MPs, and then to solve others, that all those who receive pensions according to special regulations, I think that and I agree with those who said that they should still go in two readings and that is more, because this law, the first users of this law, will not be able to say so for 3.5 years, so there is enough time, and I don't think that they should have gone into an emergency procedure but that they should include all those who treat this and other laws, and as regards those who receive privileged pensions. For example. I think the miners of Tuvaluac Mines or I don't know the workers related to asbestos or members of the HAZU that they are not any political elite and that they still have to receive a pension under certain special conditions. I also think that the data says that there are only 12% of pensioners in Croatia, and that they have met both criteria, that is 65 years of life and 40 years of work experience, and I think that those people who are only 12% should also be rewarded because I say they went into retirement meeting both criteria. I don't know, maybe they should have their pensions up to their last salary or something. Secondly, one question that also opens, Mr. Minister, so we have a difference among the MPs themselves, some MPs may, after their term of office, if that is no longer to be done, return, for example. Professor at the university, some who work at scientific institutes or doctors, the question of surgeons... For four years, he's been operating on the question of whether or not he's fit to operate. Let's just say that's one question I think needs to be solved, too. And one more question. And what about the future EU parliamentarians? We will not know, I suppose, that next year we will also elect representatives in the EU parliament. We will become a 1.7 full-fledged member of the EU, we all wanted it, we are all happy about it, so it is not questionable at all. ...and we will have our representatives in the EU parliament. I don't know, I know those MPs are getting paid by the criteria that are in the EU parliament. I don't know how they receive and what their pension will be, I don't know, but if they're going to receive a pension on some special terms, I say I don't know, but if I think it would be okay then it would be okay if Europarliamentary representatives who will be tomorrow to receive a pension like all the other MPs, so under the General Pensions Act, and if they have any excess to go to the Mirovinski Fund, then let the Peace Fund have more funds. Okay, I'm opening the question, maybe I'm wrong, I don't know, but if they do, that would be my suggestion. So, Mr. Minister, Mr. Vice President, I said at first, this law should be supported because we all have to share the fate of citizens and in that sense I will support absolutely this law. But here I had a need to say a few of my dilemmas and suggestions that I think might be resolved, and if they are not and will not be resolved and are not the subject of this law to think about them then when the Government proposes to amend some of the other laws concerning all those other categories that receive pensions under special conditions, that they should also be taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1977	Thank you. Next agent, Mr. Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1978	Dear Vice President, Ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. The amendments to this law corrects a huge injustice that was in front of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia concerning the privilege of parliamentary representatives, the judges of the Constitutional Court and the main state auditor. With certain privileges, the hatred of politics among citizens was largely expressed that politics is something that is not good, something that is very underestimating, and I believe that the amendments to this law in that part will also change the views of our citizens in at least one part when it comes to politics. All the privileges, especially the unwarranted privileges that were and were among the Croatian citizens, were clearly our message from the Croatian Labourists, which we told the citizens that we would make every effort to correct this injustice in the Croatian Parliament. What I must say, and this is what we have heard today, is that the position of Croatian Labourists in that section should be excluded when it comes to privileged pensions for all officials. And we are pleased to hear today that very soon they will come to the Croatian Parliament and amend the Law on the Rights of State officials because Croatian Labourers have also made a proposal to amend that law. And I believe after the adoption of this law when the preferential pensions for parliamentary deputies will be abolished will be uncomfortable for the president of the state to be the only one with a preferential pension, and eventually his statements were that he does not want and will not accept that preferential pension. That's why I think as soon as possible and that part should be harmonised when it comes to privileged pensions. Furthermore, these days, there have been a lot of speeches about the stones that are barfing. I must say that the stones will continue to rot and there will continue to be blisters from these pebbles because regardless of what these benefits will be abolished for future pensioners tied to the Croatian Parliament, but there will be one total indignation of citizens to the benefits achieved and disproportionate when it comes to pension levels, when it comes to those small pensions that pensioners cannot survive from the beginning of the month to the end of the month. On the other hand, we have parliamentary deputies and MPs who have made very big privileged pensions. It will continue to sting in the eyes, it will continue to be stones that will blister, and those over 300 thousand unemployed who have no chance of getting to work will continue to whine and all others who cannot receive regular wages or those who receive a small and minimum wage. These amendments to the law, clearly some said today, will not make any savings. The budget and the next 4 years of it will accomplish nothing, but the great injustice that I have said before is correct, that dealing with the policies and privileges that have been, and today we have heard what is in some way and... that the representatives have just proposed the adoption of such a law and that MPs have adopted it, therefore such a privilege. [[You don't understand.]] When we talk about it, it definitely had to be abolished, especially in the part of the economic crisis and indifference in which our citizens and workers live. In any case, the amendment of this law will somehow bring back at least a fraction of the will and in some ways appreciate more policy-making. And in the end, my commitment and voice will be to amend this law because I believe that the burden of the crisis must primarily be borne by me here, and then, beyond that, to end all other privileges, and to preserve our citizens who are in one part of the indifference and who barely survive from the beginning of the month to the end of the month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1979	Thank you. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Agent Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1980	Mr. Vice President, unfortunately, I have to conclude that you have injured the Rules of Procedure after completing your presentation by Agent Calmett. Namely, you have injured Article 209(3), which says, I quote, "If a representative asks for a word to answer the quote, a replica, the chairman will give him his word as soon as he finishes speaking the quote." I've just done it in the last seconds of Mr. Calmeta's speech, and I've raised the replica board, and of course you've been instructed by Madam Secretary, I don't have the right to the replica. You have injured the Rules of Procedure, I will ask for this debate at the Presidency of the Croatian Parliament, and since there are cameras that I assume are not TV cameras but surveillance cameras in the Croatian Parliament, in the Assembly, I want them examined to determine at which point I have raised that tile. I will not allow the representatives of the Croatian Democratic Union...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1981	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1982	In this House, they discriminate, Mr. Vice President. After the threat of both the prime minister and the representative of the SDP to us at the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community where we are instructed to behave...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1983	I'm warning you in time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1984	Yeah, I'll be done. This really goes beyond measure, and I'm going to ask the President of the Parliament to discuss this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1985	Thank you. The primary practice so far is that during the debate it can react to replication, correction... Allow me, when I speak, I beg your tolerance. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Secondly, Mr. Kalmeta finished the debate, I began to give my word to Mr. Representative Tušak, and at that moment I noticed a confession, I noticed a replica. So you didn't respond in time. I agree with your request to be questioned at the Bureau, that the cameras are being recorded. Of course we're gonna respect this, and don't, I'm not acting on a model of intimidation or being imputed to something else. Next up for debate, Mr. Danesh Shaw's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1986	Thank you very much, Vice President. Mr. Minister with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. I would like to take part in the debate, say a few words about this problem because I appreciate that this problem is present in a certain way, as our people say it kind of quiets back 5, 10, maybe years. And this problem is present in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia, and I must tell you that in smaller, rural areas where people know almost everyone there, we are in a slightly more delicate situation than the large and urban environments. Because in the last 10, 15 or a month from the bakery over the cafe wherever you come and wherever it is in a certain way top topic, and that is also quite understandable since our voters have a certain right and that voter thinks if he has circled his chief or representative that with full right he can call him to account or criticize. At the same time I'm saying it because in this explanation I'm having a little something, some data is missing, at the same time in those environments, it's also very well-known to you, you have certain people who are employed in companies, you have managers, there everyone knows, with receipts from 20 to 30 and more thousands a month, and I'm saying that because these companies that are in a certain way participating I would say fat in the state budget in different incentives. So, it's not about entrepreneurs who only manage themselves, but it's about something and probably in a shipyard, there's also an agrarian, etc. So, I can't see, I'm sure they're going to retire, too. In this statement, there is no explanation of how many of these former pension managers are present. These are not small receipts or not reported. Because out of a million and a few hundred pensioners, it's not the devil's idea that only the representatives are the ones on whom these data is recorded, etc. and above that average of 8,000 and a few hundred, let's see how many in Croatia are such people who have hopefully bigger pensions. I think it's a very interesting piece of information. It would be good if we had that in mind. Two, three words only about these privileges, about privileged pensions. In fact, the essence of these privileged, or privileged moments comes down to me or the representative, or anyone who goes into retirement or misses years of internship, and just before we heard that almost 85% of the potential, or present pensioners, are in that position or missing years of life. These are two very important and crucial moments on which the pension depends. And finally, I don't think that people and citizens have any idea about it, the vast majority of what the accounting technique is, where and how that big difference arises if there's any significant difference if man can't use these privileges that I've been talking about. And finally, this whole situation culminated in such a way that there was a lot of comment that there was, that it was legal and that it was immoral etc. etc. I would like to remind you when, a year ago or in this past session, we changed that legislation, and then in one article, it was said that it refers to the next’s representatives, which is quite clear and logical, etc. Therefore, each of the campaign’s representatives probably knew or should have known what was waiting for him afterwards, that the law would change. And if there was perhaps a very, very little bit of immorality then all of us now try to think about the moment we raised our hand because then it's probably, it will confirm to the lawyers either the opposite reasons or the moment that even the sixth convocation is covered. And everyone who's gone now to do that and to them that I don't think would make sense. But I'm sure the citizens would accept that. There wouldn't be any problem here. I'd like to say so much about what's moral and what's not. Therefore, if MPs are perhaps 10, 30, I do not know how many of those who have retired from the 2 years of office in the Assembly plus one day with maybe 26, 7, 8 years of internship and with 50 and several years of life it is indeed in a certain way can be treated by privilege and may be used for the rest of their lives. Please, it was a regulation. And when the mandate started, he couldn't do it anymore, he didn't get a new term and he retired. So I think it's incorrect to at least put everything under the same hat. Because not all MPs are in such a position as to use these benefits as regards both the internships and the years of life. Here's how short I wanted it. And now I'm only going to end up with one sentence that can symbolize this situation like this. If they're in Baranja 22. After a successful referendum of nine municipal chiefs, two or one of them drank a little more, it does not mean that Baranja's chiefs are drunkards. There's only that much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1987	Thank you. We have a replica, Mr. Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1988	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm not getting into this last one, but I want to look at this passing of this law now in force, which has indeed been passed by a great hypocrite. Since this is the sixth term I am talking about the vast majority, and you can check it out by a respected colleague in the vast majority of both the HDZ and the SDP passed that law and practically did not refer to MPs in the sixth session, but precisely to some future MPs. In any case, this law should be supported. And I said it wasn't a pebble in a shoe. Every smart man takes out his shoe, then he takes out his shoe, throws out a rock. This is really about one injustice, one of the stakes that the Turks stuck on in people's conquests. It is one immorality, and such a law is impossible to favour only a particular group. And you're right when you say they weren't just parliamentary deputies who were privileged. There are almost all directors of public enterprises owned, majority state-owned, members of supervisory boards, administrations, etc. which have far higher incomes according to their manager's contract, large severances, etc. from a parliamentary representative, and even from the Prime Minister. But I expect this ministry to work very quickly on those ordinary pensions of ordinary people who have worked for 40, 45 years and who today have 1140 kuna to 2200 and cannot survive from first to first. They don't have bread and milk. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1989	Thank you. Next up for debate, representative Mr. Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1990	Honored Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen, MPs and MPs. At first, I want to say that I am in favour of abolishing such a law on the pensions of Parliamentarians. This law should have been abolished as such a long time ago. But I'm not in favour of the demagogue approach of some parliamentary MPs who have participated in supporting such a law of boredom by thinking in the front row on this left hand side of the constituency. Therefore, this law should not even be passed when it was passed in this way, or in this form, because it is nakaratous, not socially sensitive, and it is virtually not just that such privileges as the parliamentary representatives had in terms of retirement were indeed different from the Croatian set. But before I move on to the debate, I'd like to take a step forward. Since this law abolishes the benefits in terms of the pension of the tram map, I suggest and why not abolish the preferential diet in the Assembly restaurant. So I suggest that when we cancel everything, we cancel this because this really doesn't make any sense, so everyone can pay at the economic cost of what it costs. Why should I drink 4.5 kuna coffee, why wouldn't it cost 6 or 8 kuna? That's my suggestion. If they don't have any privileges, then they shouldn't even have privileges here in the Parliament. Why am I worried about passing this law? I'm concerned about the fact that you've passed the law in a hurry, or you're proposing to pass the law in a hurry. Unthinkingly, unsightly, therefore, and unqualityly for future generations of parliamentary deputies, and this is not an individual in this, one parliamentary representative, but what kind of staff selection will be for future parliamentary representatives. Why didn't the law say that this guaranteed pension was, say, four thousand kuna? Why, for example. Not in a year's time in the Parliament there's 500 kuna? So it was up to the MPs to acknowledge some security so much that they could speak freely here. This way, for several generations, we will have independent parliamentary representatives such as today's independent and the media by trilateral commissions, multinational companies and domestic commercial companies that control certain media and they set up political furniture and government. I don't think this is good for the future of the Croatian Parliament. Second of all, the government can't speak here right now, because the government is proposing this law, to clean up in its own backyard. Then it was supposed to be suggested by SDP clubs and others so we could clean it up. We're cleaning up in our backyard. This is proposed by the government, so on behalf of all of us. Therefore, the government does not clean in its own backyard because it did not mention itself, nor did it mention a SDP subsidiary in Pantovack. Why? There can be no double criteria, there can be no doctor in the hospital on an internal basis, and the other on the second criterion. And I'm going to tell you why, because the government didn't want to end these privileges for itself, and Pantochuck didn't make it, she shouldn't have dreamt about it. And now you're under public pressure, you're saying something, etc., etc. So we'll see, you probably will. But then this is totally demagogy because the law is neither just nor just nor clean of its head. Because you know who's in this country's head. And it's not the head of the Parliament, is it? He was supposed to be, he's a legislative body, and you know who's in the state's head. That's what's on the formal level. But there are even stronger reasons why you talk so much about changing this law today, and we said almost from all the discussions I see that we all agree that we should change it, but not this quickly because nothing happens today or the day after tomorrow. You want to tell the people, and then why didn't you tell the people that the government, I told everyone else, went the same way, and then it would be a good message to the people. But this is how you sent a bad message to the people. That it is not the same criterion for the government as for the MPs, that for Pantovac, it is not the same criterion as for the parliamentary representatives. And you've developed this debate here for one reason only, to release the smoke curtain, to entertain the people around parliamentary pensions, because it's kind of a lot of tension in society and in people about it, that they don't feel the poverty of the population, the rise of VAT, that the pensioners you've raised 30 kunas a month about Mr. Hrelja, that this VAT will drop their standard for every percentage of VAT by at least 2%. You didn't say that raising taxes on weekends and fields would fall standard because of it, you didn't say that you would now introduce new taxes, that you would also bring middle class, middle class, that you would sort of bring in a lower layer because by raising your salary tax above 8 500 kuna, which today is announced directly by gentlemen means that you will reduce the salary to doctors and senior nurses and all categories. So by paying taxes, you're going to reduce the standard of the entire population, that you're going to jeopardize the existence of most people in this country. And here you threw this like a squid when you ran away you threw ink at the Parliament. Let's get this debate over with. I generally, not to support but to be the first to abolish these pensions, I repeat in the end, the legal proposal is bad because it does not see the future of the quality of this House in the future. And here, too, it was conveniently expelled, appropriate in terms of time, by the ruling set of taxes, so that it could bring the population into a difficult position economically and that it could do everything he thought it would do and not say in the pre-election campaign that it would work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1991	Thank you. We first have a correction to the incorrect assumption. Mr. Hrelja's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1992	Dear Mr. Marasovic, I didn't talk today about the pension coordination being at 30 kuna level. That's not true. You may have pulled this out of your memory, but the alignment will be as much as the statistics show on wage growth and consumer prices in half. So that's it. Unlike the last 24 months, there has been no pension adjustment and where the real value of the pension has dropped statistically by 3.1%. So statistical pensioners could have bought less goods for their use. And if you were to look at the weighted spending of pensioners, then that would be between 5% and 7%.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1993	Thank you. We have a replica, Mr. Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1994	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Well, I think if something was demagogy today, then what you were saying to your colleague, Marasovic. So the question is are we morally and socially sensitive? Today, we are talking exclusively about the pensions of Parliamentarians. We're not talking about anything else right now. So this whole debate is really about itself. We decided today to correct one logical injustice. I'm 44 years old and I don't think about retirement. Whether my term of office will take four years, eight years or 12 years after he's finished, I'll be back to work in my geodetic profession where I know how to work. Which is why if you're in favour, which is why you don't vote for, if that's why the law goes according to emergency procedure, then it's very suspicious. You're trying and after that, speaking of amendments to this law, then you mention a VAT that we don't have the materials for yet, and we don't know if it's going to be like that or anything else. Make up your mind. If you're against it, you're against it, if you're restrained because of it, if you're up for it then vote yes and I'm sorry that Mrs. Kosor didn't get the word after Mr. Calmeta made it clear and loud that it was for the repeal of this law, I'm very interested in what kind of replica it would be.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1995	Thank you for having responded to the replica, MP Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1996	I advise you colleagues to listen a little more carefully. I've given an explanation why I'm not in this form, because such a law isn't covered by the government and the SDP branch in Pantochaka, which is why I'm not in favour. And don't talk so much about morality, ethics, especially for us in Split, the debate on ethics, where there is no ethics, and the morals of moral verticals, in millions of people living double morals. So here's the Parliament, we're talking about material facts, arguments and morals, of course, we all have to act morally, but I think moral and moral vertical are in... and I'm talking too much about these moral verticals today.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1997	Thank you. We have a replica of the vice president, Agent Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1998	Dear colleague Marasovic, you have compared this Law to the release of ink syrup, but it seems to me that in this presentation you have just done so, when you claim one untruth that this Law applies only to MPs and not to the Government. Not to members of the government, it's simply a lie. If that were the case, this Law would be both immoral and unfair, it would deserve every condemnation. If the government were to propose to the Parliament, abolish any privileges for MPs or any of their rights, and that right retains itself, and that executive power stems from this parliamentary legislative authority, that would be deeply immoral. But that is simply not the case, and you consciously several times, knowingly and deliberately deceive the public who is following this transmission. So this law applies not only to MPs but also to government members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u1999	Thank you. Replica representative VINković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2000	Well, I just picked up a replica so my colleague can answer me. Namely, speaking of the introduction of a VAT that I disagree with and the obvious intention is to increase it to 25%, you see your colleague Marasovic, apparently Kukuriku took that trend from HDZ to an increase in SDP by introducing a crisis tax, from HDZ, because HDZ has just raised from 22% to 23%. And it doesn't make any difference either because neither of them were in the pre-election program and pre-election promises. However, you're talking about demagogy, so I'm just going to remind you of this average pension that is somewhere around 2000 kuna received by the average Croatian pensioner and this privileged pension that runs from 12, 17 or I don't know how many thousand kunas. It is not a demagogy, it is an amoral state in which Croatia was brought to have someone have 17 thousand kuna pensions, and that someone who has worked for 40 years has 2,000 and cannot tie the end. He can't survive a month, he can't survive a week so we understand each other. And what I'm particularly into in this replica of yours, in which you've replicated, and I'm surprised that the SDP is silent, and even other members of the Kukuriku coalition are silent, when you called the institution of the President of the Republic, who was elected in the direct elections of the SDP branch, I believe that this is a blow to the president of the Republic, also to the direct choice, but also to the institution of the state. He probably prefers a political option but he is the president of the Republic of Croatia and the president of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And it is an insult not only to the President of the Republic but also to this Croatian Parliament and the entire process of democratisation in the Republic of Croatia. Calling the president a branch of a political party is a scandal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2001	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica Mr. Representative Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2002	I didn't insult or hurt anyone, I didn't mention the function or the name of anyone, I don't think you HDSB could be held back in any way in insulting some parliamentary representatives and people, it's not foreign to you either, but I didn't hurt anyone today or offend you. But, well, let's put it aside a little bit, when there's a rhetorical figure, but in terms of content, this really demagogy, I don't see what I'd be demagogue in if I said I support this to end this kind of congregation pension, I said they were unfair, I said they shouldn't have brought any of these, and I don't know what else to say. And I've also suggested that we end this play that we still have as our only privilege. Well, gentlemen of the assembly representatives, which is another five kunas for coffee, and maybe two more swears on the coast of Split. Let's get this off of us because tomorrow, Croatian citizens will call us for a cup of coffee, and that is why I support and remain on my proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2003	Thank you. For a five-minute debate, MP Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2004	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague. I took a word in the final debate of five minutes because my ears burned two said thesis here in the debate, one of my colleagues was Vuljanić that he wondered how many Croatian workers could endure the pensioners. This issue is not asked in the system of generation solidarity because the system of generation solidarity does not prejudge the conditions in which one will qualify for employment, how many workers there will be in relation to the pensioners. And that is why it is the state that is part of the missing funds in the event of high unemployment for the payment of earned pension rights compensates. Therefore, there should be no dilemma and we should not talk about this condition as long as workers can endure because by paying their contributions they provide current pension pensioners and create rights for themselves in the future. The state appears as a guarantee. It was also an inappropriate statement by counterpart Ivic that 85% of Croatian pensioners did not perform many years of internships. I think that's how he put it. I think it's a very wrong approach. In fact, we have about 12, 13% of people who have done over 40 years, but we have almost over 25% of people who have done a full-time job under the law, because women have retired at 35 years of age. And we have another unknown, 130 people taking proportionate pensions. They are in our statistics, and they must have gone into retirement either by our laws or by the laws of the countries in which they receive that pension. So this statistic just doesn't drink water. What I'm sure will do is that all of us here when we pass all the other laws will be further motivated to take care of the pension insurance system, to take care of bankruptcy laws, whether and when contributions are paid which are not paid because of the difficulties in the business, whether when we pass laws on the rehabilitation of certain companies or whatever happens, whether or not pension contributions will be forgiven, and recognition of rights, so on the one hand we have exit rights, and we have no money, we have no entrys, so we will certainly be more motivated by the adoption of such laws to protect and promote the pension insurance system as the only system from which we draw the law. So, we are under the Constitution of the social state, the state of social justice and the new social balance in this difficult situation, an economic and social imperative without which we cannot. I am sure that this law will solve the cause, which is disproportionate to the law, and that, as a consequence of disproportionate pensions, it has already been resolved and will certainly still be resolved, and this law will also contribute to the fixation of the political scene, it will certainly be a reduction of political pride and ambition to enter this House only because of the privileges. It will certainly contribute to improving civility but certainly solidarity with citizens but also ourselves, that we will not care how some of our colleagues from any party end up following the conduct of their duties in the Croatian Parliament. So it is certain that this law will be one of the contributions of such different behavior. And in the end, I wonder when we'll change the Law on Contributions? A thousand people who receive a pension of more than 45 thousand kuna are entitled to return more contributions because for them pension contributions are limited to 8 thousand 800 kuna per month and cannot pay more than that. So they have a lower contribution rate, and at the end of the year, on the basis of their request to pay more money based on pension contributions, they make a nice 13. Pay. It is a privilege that has more than 45 thousand kuna monthly gross payment. I don't think that this system of generation solidarity can stand it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2005	The Prime Minister called for the closing statement. Mr. Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2006	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Here is the end of this debate that was longer than I expected, but obviously there are various interests and hidden interests and desires, and the possibilities are what they are. The Croatian system at the moment when we are talking about the pension system has been overstretched and we have already spoken ourselves several times about that system where a pensioner is at 1.2 employees is hardly sustainable in the future. And on that trail it was a discussion by. This sustainability problem will be dealt with very quickly in the media, and a debate will be held on how to proceed with the pension system. What we've pointed out over and over again has no way back. So we're not holding up some new reform of the pension system. We want to strengthen the second and third pillars of the pension system where all of us in that second pillar are our pensions and our pensions for the future. So, about the future and the development of the pension system in Croatia, we are going to have a very quick discussion and it will probably be very quick and debate in the Parliament itself when we talk about it. But before my closing statement, I'd like to explain some things so that it stays written down and the numbers remain written down. Therefore, Commissioner Lovrin spoke of the number of deputies, or the number of deputies, and the extent to which it was reduced. What I would like to write down, that a total of 20 deputy ministers replaced 60 state secretaries, that 80 assistants replaced 153 management directors. So we're going to cut from 546 officials in management to 460. Therefore, this government has promised to cut costs and these costs will be reduced. So, as far as the law itself is concerned, it also refers to all the calls of the Parliament, so those who have not applied at this time for the recognition of their pension under the previous laws. So by way of effect of this law, all those who apply for pension, they will be considered and the pension will be paid under this law. As for ministers in the government, government ministers share the fate of parliamentary deputies because most of them came to the government from the constituency benches. And for those ministers who aren't parliamentary representatives, they've never had the right to so-called. a special pension, but they retired according to how much they paid in the pension system. I would also agree with Mr. Hrelja and I hope that this is not the view of HDZ representatives that there are privileged pensioners, pensioners who, by their work, have earned their pension pensions, it is not a privileged pension. If someone is working behind a machine, if someone is a welder in a shipyard, so you can't condemn someone who has difficulties and health and others to retire before, you just can't work anymore. He's not privileged, he's given a piece of himself, installed in that ship, into that machine. Therefore, I hope that's not the HDZ's position. And finally, we propose that this law be adopted because the abolition of the special conditions for the achievement of pension under the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament is deeply fair and allows for all the legal initiatives that we bring to the Parliament to be changed and accepted with a clear conscience. Because it says first clean up before you or do something to yourself so that you can suggest the same thing to someone else. Therefore, pensions that could so far have been made under the previous laws of the 17744 kuna, the adoption of the new law may amount to a maximum of 8872 kuna for the maximum pension of 40 years under the Pension Insurance Act. As we have already announced and said, it is not a financial savings, it is a budget savings in the future because we will no longer have such pensions, so this amount will decrease over time, and as far as the pension system itself is concerned, we have chosen to keep the pension system safe, that the pensioners will not and do not want to bear the burden of the crisis because there are other mechanisms that can enable us to pass this difficult 2012 which is ahead without major earthquakes. What we have said and what we will stick to, we will stick to our promises, and this is the first promise we have said that we will execute and carry out the act of accepting this law. So I also call on all MPs to make this law a consensus because I think it is something that we owe to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And everyone who keeps the fig in their pocket thinks they can look in the mirror and say I'm the representative of these citizens and the law I've passed is deeply just. And I have to tell you that not one person I've met in the last six months as far as we've talked about this law, not a single citizen of the Republic of Croatia has said that it should remain, means that this law that was in this form should be but is the wish of all citizens to change it and we are doing the will of the citizens in this act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2007	Thank you. We have a correction to the incorrect allegations, Mrs. Lovrin's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2008	Vice President, because he referred to my speech, I must say, I want it to be written that it is simply not true that the number of officials in the administration has been reduced. So, Mr. Minister, I'm reading your bill which is now the law and I repeat the numbers. So far, there have been 16 ministers plus 60 state secretaries. According to the new law, the official has 122 at least, and I have not yet counted the directors of police, customs directors, etc., all those you promoted from civil servants to officials. And to this new officials, now to the assistant ministers, you have raised the coefficient to the level of pay of the parliamentary representative, so all 80 ministerial assistants have the coefficient of the parliamentary representative who had the state secretary, and the salaries of the deputy ministers have a greater coefficient than the parliamentary representative, and somewhere just below the minister. That's true and let it remain written down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2009	Thank you. Correction next, Agent Mr. Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2010	So I would just correct this quote that was now said, and I've never heard it in the discussion today, which is that HDZ representatives said that someone who wasn't worth working for a machine or was a welder, etc. That he didn't deserve a pension. Such a claim has not been made, but I am very glad that the minister, too, said there will be no savings thanks to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2011	Thank you. We've concluded with the debate. The vote will be after the break. I'm setting a break until 3:00. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2012	And we move on to a vote on all these laws, that is, the proposals of the legal texts that we discussed today by emergency procedure. You've all been given the I.D. keys. Do any of the MPs or counsel have that he doesn't have it on him? Then I ask you first before we go to the polls on certain points to identify ourselves with our keys to see how many of us are in the hall first. Something's wrong, it says there's 83 of you here. Wait a minute. Now, I'm going to ask you one more time, it's hard for us to be in the hall of all 83, so when I ask you to identify yourself that you're here, put the key inside and you need to light this middle button marked with 0. I'm begging you one more time. Okay, someone's right not to engage, we have to tell you how many representatives are present? 93. We're going to vote. Final draft law amending the Law on the Rights and responsibilities of MPs in the Croatian Parliament, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 20. The debate is closed. The amendment submitted by the Committee on Selection, Designation and Administrative Affairs has not been submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, so we will not decide on it. I therefore put to the vote the final proposal of the Law. Please, let's get involved and vote. Of course, you who vote for the Law plus you who feel that the Law should not be accepted minus and who is abstentioned 0 squeeze. I'm asking for a result. Therefore, I find that most votes were passed the Law amending the Law on the Rights of Representatives in the Croatian Parliament in the text as proposed by the Proposer with 80 votes for, 12 abstentions and no one against. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. - Final draft law amending the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 23. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Here you go. Representative for the Proposer, Minister Arsen Bauk, Minister of Administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2014	I would like to thank Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to amend the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest for two reasons. The first amendment concerns the harmonisation of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest with the Law on the System of State Administration, and the Law on Obligations and Rights of State Officials and the Law on Civil Servants, which is why it is necessary to amend the definition of officials related to the prevention of conflicts of interest. The Government of the Republic of Croatia, with a view to protecting the interests of the Republic of Croatia and units of local and regional self-government in the management of companies where the Republic of Croatia, i.e. units of local and regional self-government, have shares or shares in the ownership or capital of the company, is necessary that the Government of the Republic of Croatia can propose at any time members of the administrative bodies and supervisory committees, and thus the representative bodies of the units of local self-government on the basis of the expertise and responsibility of the candidates, and without the conduct of a public tender procedure requiring a longer flow of time, while at the same time not guaranteeing and the ability to manage those bodies or at least does not guarantee better management of those bodies. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia proposes to the Croatian Parliament to bring amendments to this Law. I would also like to announce that, very quickly, the Government will propose a new law that would process this matter, and until then we propose that these amendments be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2015	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. Then I'm opening a debate. First on behalf of the clubs. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2016	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. Welcome to the Croatian Parliament in a new duty. Congratulations on your first appearance as minister. On behalf of the HNS Club, I would like to declare at first the position that we will support this proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia by supporting both of the reasons that Minister Bauk has presented here as a representative. Indeed, three legal regulations have undergone changes. These are the Law on the System of State Administration, then the Law on the Obligations and Rights of State Officials and the Law on Civil Servants. It is perfectly normal to adapt the text in this law to the no-technical terms, or definition of government officials, by the sequence of these amendments. What is likely to trigger attention is the second reason why it is going to change this regulation, which is to revise the existing system of election of members of administrative bodies, i.e. the supervisory boards of companies whose Republic of Croatia or units of local self-government, regional self-government is the founder or co-owner. For years, it has been said that the membership of politicians in these bodies is actually a bad solution because there is a policy that does not know how to manage public goods. It's one thesis that's only partially accurate. In fact, bad politics can't manage public funds. Good, self-sacrifice, responsible policy and such politicians certainly know how to manage public funds and public resources that are available not only by state but also by local and regional self-government units. We tried and tested a model proposed by the previous government impressed part of the public criticism at the expense of politicians sitting on boards, and this model we tested predicted that company supervisory committees would be appointed to people who would be won in public tenders. She was noble of intent. Indeed, it was believed that the most sacrificial, most professional people who had not only a good will but who knew much and who would fully devote themselves. However, we forgot one very important thing, which is that the law defined the roles of the supervisory boards slightly different from what was thought romantically in the section of the public. The Supervisory Boards have very strictly defined roles in the corporate governance process, and it is the supervisory boards that have to oversee the management business. So we have come to the situation that the public business administrations of course appoint a founder through the supervisory boards to control, and that is a double model that obviously does not produce good results. There are even more examples that prove that a number of units of local and regional self-government have avoided the application of this law and to this day, calling for so-called. The indetermination of the regulation that we are now, by this proposal of the new Government, actually abolishing. So in many supervisory boards of companies at local and regional or county level, and now we have politicians, or people who have appointed local politicians. I wouldn't even call them politicians, because it's not often that they've been able to actually share the syncures. We forgot another detail, which is that it is impossible for 500, 600 or 1200 kn to perform such a complex task, and that you are not yet related to other commitments to founders and that you do not have another additional dimension of obligations and responsibilities. It is obvious that the Government of the Republic of Croatia wants to take matters under control in such a way that the work is done clearly, clearly, transparently in the interests of the strategic specifics defined by the owner and to take responsibility for it. And that's the key word - responsibility. To define who is responsible for the business of public enterprises that have about a billion and 200 million kuna each year in money and several times more in the good, or capital they have. It has been shown in some cases that the tenders were a completely insufficient model from which it was not possible to extract quality and that the owner was actually forced from a very narrow circle of under-competent and qualified people to choose members of the Supervisory Board. Now the situation is definitely changing, the deadlines are speeding up, and the founder is taking full responsibility for himself. Of course, the Parliament has a very important role to play in controlling the process of managing public goods in all possible ways that are in its disposition. The same role is played by the representative bodies of local and regional self-government. And there's the key. So it's an address where you can develop and demonstrate responsibility to public funds. And to avoid confusion, and despite the tenders, it is clear that many of the positions in the supervisory boards were attended by people on political recommendations. Therefore, it is necessary not to speak the language of the Esposites but to clearly and loudly take responsibility for the management of public funds. In this sense, I repeat, the HNS club will support the government's proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2017	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation by two of our agents. First Mr. Josip Djakic. Mr. Representative, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2018	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So it is incorrect to quote colleagues, Richembergh, that this move wants the Government of the Republic of Croatia to carry out its responsibility and take responsibility for the management of public enterprises. This is a demagogue trick that Mr. Richembergh is talking about because so far the competitions have talked about competent, professional people who understand themselves in the profession of these very types of businesses and take responsibility and are paid for their activity. So it's absolutely incorrect. This is a demagogue presented something that absolutely does not stand. Politically similar now will be the ones who will manage businesses.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2019	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Josip Salapic, correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2020	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Richembergh, on behalf of the club, incorrectly said that this is how the government assumes responsibility for the management of public enterprises. My colleague, it is true that this is how the government assumes responsibility for the management of the "Kurkuriku coalition" personnel. People who do not meet, I am sure, the conditions of expertise to be members of the supervisory board and that is to satisfy the cookies of your electoral partners and coalition partners of your coalition. And it is true that the law currently in force, adopted by our government with President Kosor, is one of a series of laws that we have passed to conclude Chapter 23 and negotiations for the EU. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2021	Thank you very much. It is on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party, Mr. Representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2022	Thank you, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The law, as Mr. Minister and Mr. Beus said, has two parts. One has to be made, we've got new officials, different names, different list of officials, and this law has to be aligned with that. That's unequivocal. The second part of the law doesn't have to be made, the second part of the law is wanted by the government, it wants to do something it doesn't think worked in the past term. He wants to introduce responsibility and political responsibility, I hope, in the management of public enterprises not only those owned by the state but also those owned by local and regional self-government. The principle of political responsibility is a key principle of the functioning of the political system. We have not often had the opportunity to see him in practice, we have often called ministers, assistant ministers, state secretary for political responsibility. So, not that this House is calling on a state attorney to press charges, to play judge, cadium and executioner, but to establish political responsibility for a certain political step, and to take the political responsibility of the man who pulled that step into politics bearing and conjecture and to leave the place if he did the wrong thing. I didn't know, I had no idea, there's the board of directors, there's the board of directors, I didn't get involved in it, even the ministers who were on the monitoring boards of the big companies of the type "Brodosplita" who were reporting the money disappeared, Mr. Jurjevic often asked where the colleges were? No one knew where the schools were, and the minister was saying I don't know. I hope this law changes that situation. Namely what? The government, i.e. ministers, should appoint people who will manage public money, public property, public enterprises, by their decision, by their act without competition, without concealment. Behind that, the government and those ministers should stop. I expect, if this law is passed, and most of it is there, it will be accepted, that it will no longer be possible for the monitoring board of large public enterprises to miss three, four criminal steps of the administration, or the poor steps of the administration, to not even be criminal, and that the minister says I don't know anything about it, I'm sorry, but it's none of my business. The minister, by this act, accepts the responsibility to appoint these people and accepts responsibility for the work of these people. In other words, if the Supervisory Board in such a large system does a wrong job and the Republic of Croatia remains at a loss of 50, 100 or 500 million as it has happened, that minister must go along with that supervisory board and cannot declare here I did not know it to you and they did not inform me. It can't be, your man is there, you've accepted responsibility for your man, and then you're welcome to approach that responsibility. As regards the criteria for selecting these people, the last government gave a provision in which explicit guidance is given that the conditions of people must meet or not be with them. This Regulation is much more stringent than the general rules of the laws on commercial societies and the Law on institutions which also prescribe certain conditions, however, this Regulation was more stringent. Whether, I suppose, the minister can answer that question, whether this government will accept these, such or similar criteria, or just stick to the criteria of the general law on trade societies. For example, the Law on Commercial Companies states that in the supervisory and administrative bodies of the company, a person who has an interest or works in a company of a similar profile or a similar field of activity as one who is in the supervisory or management body cannot normally work. With that if the owner, he returns to the owner of that man, if the owner allows it to be done. How the government will deal with this situation, whether it adopts a criterion by which such a situation cannot be taken or decided from case to case that it thinks it should in a particular case. This is particularly important we could have confidence in our government and our ministers, they were elected here in this House and all are honorable and honest people who think best to work for the sake of Croatia, but this law and this situation concerns companies owned by local and regional self-government. Will all these criteria be applied in an equally honorable manner if they are left to an appraisal and in those places a question. It would certainly be more appropriate for the government to set up a clear and write down some order of criteria that people who will be in the administrative and supervisory bodies of these companies must meet. The government's responsibility in this situation requires that we give them a salary, that parliament pay them to choose people without any other body, the responsibility of the government grows. I expect the government to understand this and to accept in front of the public and before all of us this responsibility on the promise to behave on it. Otherwise, we'd find ourselves in a situation where we have a democratic institute wrapped in cellophane and there's something inside that's not really democratic, something that looks like a division of war prey and something like that. I would really ask the government or the minister to plead then we'll know how to vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2023	Thank you very much. Correction of an incorrect allegation, first Mrs. Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2024	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, the MP was saying, he fell a little in contrast, he talked about some times when he didn't know where the schools were, so the members of the Supervisory Board didn't know that, and he said that this bill would change. Well, that's not true. This Law will not change that precisely because when it was asked where the schools were, it was not known, because this was the way the election was or was appointed by the supervisory committees as is now proposed to amend the law. And precisely because it was intended to introduce transparency and preventive anti-corruption measures, the past government proposed amending the law and this is in the anti-corruption programme in a way that members of the supervisory boards are appointed transparently by the basis of a public tender rather than purely by political similarity. So it's not going to change this law, but it's going to go back to the time when it didn't know where the schools were.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2025	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2026	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. It is an incorrect assumption that we have a democratic institute in principle, and that something else is wrapped in the cellophane. It is true that these anti-corruption measures imposed that SDP representatives, together with HNS representatives, voted in favour of such proposals and demanded that this is exactly the moment for the election of members of supervisory boards and administrative bodies in state companies. It's nothing wrapped in cellophane and it's not a demagogue program, and especially what you're proposing is surely a dictatorship of a party that will be appointed to people by similarity and manage and oversee these companies. We will surely seek responsibility for every false move that will be made. Be assured, more than you, and stronger than you, we will seek the responsibility of all those whom you have appointed as supervisory boards and boards of directors.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2027	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Representative Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2028	Mr. President and this final correction of the incorrect allegation as well as all the previous three are infringements of Rule 209 of the Rules of Procedure, respectively, of Rule 214 of the Rules of Procedure. In Article 209 it is very clear that a representative can correct the alleged (on the facts presented), MPs correct beliefs, expectations, attitudes and assessments, that is contrary to the Rules of Procedure. If the representatives want to express their political position on what someone has been saying, however, they are entitled to do so on behalf of the Club, then they can give a replica and allow the MP to say, this is therefore an abuse of Rules of Procedure 209 on correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2029	Thank you very much. What I can say is that I have already asked you fellow MPs and MPs, and that is that when correcting the incorrect assumption that it is good and useful and desirable and I should say to indicate exactly what is correct, which sentence, which thought. I think, don't, don't argue about it anymore, I'm asking you again. And Mr. Representative Jozo Radosh, I am obliged to tell him, too. Therefore, the replica cannot be submitted to the presentation of either the representative of the club or the representative of the applicant. So we need to know exactly the same thing. Please no more, not now, please. Here you go, but if you won't have it right, I'll take your word for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2030	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Article 209 has been injured. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament because I didn't say anything I didn't write down.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2031	Please say 209. And another one? This Regulation shall enter It's basic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2032	Article 209 of the basic article on what is the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and what can be done in the part where an incorrect quote is corrected. I've been making an unseemly allegation exactly right once and twice. If I have to, I can do it again.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2033	Please. Thank you very much. It is not necessary that I hope that we have made it clear to each other about the fact that the infringement of the Rules of Procedure is being pointed out, and in what way is the correction of the incorrect allegation. Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Representative Josip Leko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2034	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. To define what we're talking about, about amending the Law to prevent conflicts of interest. Listen and you'll hear. So the two reasons are already mentioned here. One is formal, harmonising regulations and laws with the new circumstances of the Government and Ministry Act. And the second is the government's responsibility for public affairs and public interest. So on the first alignment, we can't even oppose it because it's the Parliament's obligation, so we can't be against our obligation to comply with regulations. As for the second, colleagues and colleagues, the government took responsibility for public affairs and the public interest of the Republic of Croatia on 23.12 last year. By objective criteria of that day, he bears responsibility. Whether or not she wanted to be responsible for both state-of-the-art and state-owned enterprises or companies in which the State has shares. And from the point of view of the Trade Society Act, there is no dispute that the owner is legally appointed members of the Supervisory Board. And nothing's changed here, people. Nothing's changed. That chain of responsibility must be uninterrupted. Owner, Assembly, Supervisory Board, etc. So this is a clear situation, a government, a company assembly, a supervisory board and responsibility. Nothing's changed about that. Any government, former HDZ or SDP today, it's the basic law and so regulated it has to be. As for conflicts of interest, the HDZ government has indeed made a decision on the corporate governance code of companies in which the Republic of Croatia has shares or shares. Is that it? It is. That's where it's prescribed that it's a conflict of interest. Either appointed supervisory committees through a public tender or under the responsibility of the government and the minister, however conflict of interest remains. And he's regulated in that decision. To read to you "The course of interest exists when a member of the Supervisory Board who is not neutral in relation to the subject of decision-making or from the fact of his relationship with other societies, persons etc. He can tell that he has a different interest than society." So whether we appoint him by public tender or by full responsibility of the minister or government remains a conflict of interest and remains this decision. And what's cleaner? It's cleaner to take responsibility. Please, therefore, the experience from the previous term of appointment through the competition is not at all the reference experience for the responsibility we are looking for, it is not at all reference because it was named from the state administration in the competition. Minister, let's be realistic here. We just spent a little more money and clouded the whole situation. It's not formal. Don't get away with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2035	Please, no throwing from the bench... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2036	The minister is not formally alone. We know how it works. We know, we know we've seen the last call on how it goes. You name it and you order him to bring the bag when you want me to say so. That's how it was, that I can hide now. Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2037	How am I supposed to react rather than give you a warning now because you're throwing yourself out of the bench by the article... please, you can't react like that. You can but then you can't participate in the debate. Please, you can't throw it off the bench. Read Article 214.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2038	We have to tell the truth.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2039	Here you go, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2040	Thank you very much. So, the contest seems transparent but experience says it's not. And who's the judge, right or wrong? It showed up recently. So, colleagues and colleagues, let's be sure to say correct and accept the fact that the government says we will appoint, we are acting as owners' rights, we will appoint a congregation, the assembly will appoint a supervisory board and we will not interrupt the chain of responsibility. According to the members of the Supervisory Board, the Commercial Society Act continues to operate with all restrictions, rights and responsibilities and acts of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which I have just quoted. So there's nothing really controversial about it. Now we can shout political passwords, hide or not hide, but the facts remain facts. Because of this, and we will soon hope to get on the bench, because of the responsibility of the Croatian Parliament for law enforcement, it is our responsibility, but also for assessing the management of public interests and public goods will come to the benches of our representatives and reports on the business of state companies. It's gonna be the best not... It's the best answer to be who's right. [[You don't understand.]] That's the best answer. So far we have what we have and what we have has given the Government of the Republic of Croatia the right to propose laws, and to support the adoption of these laws, in this way we make responsibility completely transparent. So you name, you establish a chain, you're in charge of business. The Social Democratic Party advocates' club will, of course, vote for those laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2041	Correction of an incorrect allegation. First came Mr. Representative Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2042	Thank you, Mr. President. So I would correct Mr. Vice President's incorrect claim that "the conflict of interest may arise whether the Supervisory Board is chosen by the basis of a competition or by the basis of the minister's responsibility". That's not true. That is why, because it is the responsibility of the Minister and of the Government, and when members of the Supervisory Board are elected and based on the competition, it is not delegated, so it does not delegate responsibility to the Supervisory Board but remains a responsibility for the members of the Government and the Minister. The only difference is that we have defined the path to the selection of this member of the Supervisory Board of a particular company or public firm by the basis of a tender in which we have laid down the conditions that a member of the Supervisory Board must fulfil, and you know that the Croatian Faculty of Economics has even established studies for corporate management where people have passed those examinations so that they can be invited and be members of the Supervisory Boards. It is therefore not excluded from the responsibility of the minister nor in the existing law, as it will not be excluded either in this law. But under this law, it is possible without a bid for politically similar members of the Kukuriku coalition to become without control of members of the supervisory board.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2043	Thank you. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Mrs Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2044	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here, I want to correct Mr. Vice President Lek's misrepresentation, and I quote: that the owner continues to appoint, so the government, the board of directors, and that nothing has changed. That's an incorrect quote. In fact, there has now been a lot of changes since the government, as you know, has made a series of decisions and then regulations to avoid to the greatest extent possible political influence. Ministers were no longer able to be members of the Supervisory Board, however, the choice through the tender is very different from that of the Government to appoint people by its own means and certainly we must and we have the right to doubt that it will indeed be purely political-like. I would like to remind you that we also made a decision on anti-corruption plans and programmes that all public companies had to make and have to implement, we had to respect, and the government controlled it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2045	Thank you. And Mr. Representative Đuro Popiè, also correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2046	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It is not true that this experience with competitions for members of the Supervisory Board is not referenced and it is also not true that ministers or other state officials were elected to the Supervisory Boards. Experience is very reference. The competitions carried out in this term of office for the last two years have been carried out by more than 1400 people, people from the business world. And all those who have been selected and their CVs are verifiable and we stand behind all these people and their results, and this will just be seen from the 2011 results of public companies, the revenue achieved and the profits achieved, and we will see how much and what the right path we've been on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2047	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go. ... Please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yeah, yeah, if you're going to have a club session then ask for a break please from HDZ. ... Yeah, yeah, look, but... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, it's not forbidden, but it's forbidden to speak when you don't get a word, that's what the Rules of Procedure says. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go, sir. ... Here you go, Mr. Vinkovic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2048	Thank you, Mr. President. Right at the start of the HDSSB club will be against this law. It is quite clear that there is no best, most efficient, most acceptable system of governance in the world but therefore even weirder becomes the government's decision to refer to this emergency procedure in the constituency benches the draft law amending the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, with the final proposal for a law. We expected that this law would be in many ways related to conflict of interest, including these black bags mentioned, various funds, but obviously none of it. Therefore, this system of elections and administrations and supervisory committees is abolished not only here at the state level but also at the level of regional and local self-government through a public tender. So we're not just talking about supervisory committees, we're talking about board members who've chosen each other through a public tender. Hand to heart, politics has always determined and who will sit on boards, whether the path of a public tender or the path of appointment as it is now proposed, but this time after a single step and after one I would say a more transparent way again to the supervisory boards and to the boards the politicians enter, and the election of members of the Supervisory Board is rejected through a public competition. The finance minister explained this, that only members of the board of directors should be elected in the supervisory committees of companies for which the Government is responsible, and I quote: "There must be people we are sure to implement government policy, and there must be people on the boards of public and state-owned enterprises who have no right to personal opinion, but must consistently implement government policy." As far as I know, both in practice and in theory, I do not mean socialist practice and theory that is much closer to some, but just in companies it is known that the supervisory board and the management do not have to protect the interests of political parties, but rather the interests of society, and only then try to reconcile the interests of the owners in this case of the state or some of the units of local or regional and regional self-government. But let me get back to this first sentence. There is no best, most efficient, most acceptable corporate governance system in the world. This attitude is not me, but the World Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, which, when developing corporate governance standards adopted in 1990 and ninth years, collected the most important principles of business from the practices of developed countries, as well as individual companies that have shown as an expression of efficiency in day-to-day business, as well as the development of competitiveness of companies on the world market. To what extent they have proven successful, the fact that this organisation and principles apply not only in the Member States of that organisation, but also in non-member countries. Here I will specify the sixth principle bearing the board's responsibility title, and this principle implies that the corporate governance framework should ensure the company's strategic management, effective control of the board's management and responsibility towards the company and shareholders. The maximum number of those standards provided for in this Recommendation is aimed at creating an appropriate profile of the Supervisory Board’s Executive Directors by forming through three elements competence in the performance of the supervisory function, loyalty to the company or company and independence in the performance of the function. So these three elements are the basis for a successful handling of a company. Indemnity to the political party, to the chairman of either the party or the presidency, or to which body within the party that that director or member of the Supervisory Board will be responsible and who will deserve some future membership in the supervisory committees, a place on the list in the city, municipal council, county assembly or no God again in the Assembly on the list for the Parliament. We are also aware that the state must have control over its ownership interests, but numerous cases, therefore not from somewhere from the 13th or 10th century of 925th century, the seventh or so coronation of King Tomislav, but from this close to the 1990s, so today they show that we would not have said criminally because these situations produced serious crime and the robbery of Croatian society, but even grotesque situations when certain ministers in certain court proceedings during their testimony claimed that they had never, and were members of the Supervisory Committees, were perhaps members of the administration of these societies never read these materials. So I'm just going to mention one of these fresh situations, like "Brodosplit," for example, everything that's been going on at the Privatisation Fund. It wasn't just the heads that fell for the roast or what they said over the border under the shotgun, but there were heads falling over and over all kinds of black leather I don't know how they say I don't insult MPs, but I think the expression is fancy bags, etc. But obviously there was a lot of crime here. I'll remind you only of Đakovština. Fortunately, the former government had seen last minute before the elections. That's what I thank her for. But today these same workers have probably already spent their severances and have no day to live on. But look at the wonders! There the government was appointed two members of the Supervisory Board of Two Girls who received their own decision - making fee in order on the Supervisory Board. It is the same government, from 2000 to 2003 and from 2003. So here's to 2012 and 2011 respectively. Several times she rescheduled that company but by force of opportunity, thanks to the administration and such a supervisory board went bankrupt and there went billions and billions of kunas. I'm not going to mention "Brodosplit," I'm not going to mention the ministers who sat on the board of directors and all those companies from Croatia's insurance until I don't know who they were sitting in. All this time they've been shown, reports showing that in these companies everything's great, that it's a fairy tale, how to manage these societies, these companies. Unfortunately, these financial reports, when little Comrade Bajic was on political order when he sailed the captain with a small vitre, he also addressed the entire DORH system to these companies, began to be visible how these companies served either to finance a particular political party or to easily rob these companies, workers and all of Croatia. But what the new minister who has now gone and happily saved a lot in these four years, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia itself must understand that if this one law is passed that this relationship between executive and representative authorities must be equal at the same levels. Therefore, what applies to the Government of the Republic of Croatia as executive power must also apply to the Mayor, and it must certainly apply to the Mayor. I don't know if it's the Dubbab community, they probably are because they got that famous overpass and the highway exit that cost a lot, even though it's going through maybe two or three vehicles, but in any case, not wanting to offend anyone, that kind of relationship has to apply to everyone equally. So this is what I'm talking about as the mayor of a city with about 30,000 residents who are the only one responsible for their signature, and there are more mayors here, so they probably know what I'm talking about, which is the only one responsible for the law on the functioning of local self-government, so even companies owned by a local self-government unit, it's not the City Council or a council president. So what is true for the government of the Republic of Croatia, Milanovic as Prime Minister, for the first Vice-President of Cacic, the second, third and most already there are, and for all members of the Government and the Ministers, it must be true for both the mayor and the mayor. Because they're the only ones responsible. The other thing is if there is a new possibility behind this law of the new government and new political options in obstructing all those who are not in political likeness to the current government on local self-government units, and I would no longer call the "Kukuriku coalition" since clearly one feather is slowly already being waste, it is visible even after the appearance of the distinguished performance of Cain, but these are the things of the coalition that is in power. But I'm saying, so what's worth to the government must also apply to local self-government. Because neither the mayors, nor the mayors of the municipalities, nor the mayors are local sheriffs, but they were elected directly to the local elections and they know very well their responsibility. And they can appoint supervisory committees, know how to name management through a public tender, work with them, and protect the interests of citizens in their field. So this is primarily focused on the ruling coalition since it is obvious that this law under emergency procedure will be voted upon. So you must understand that if the Government can appoint company administrations, if it can appoint supervisory committees without the Parliament's consent, the same should apply to local self-government units. Same way on the same system. Because no councilman, not SDP, not HDSSB, not HDZ is responsible for the law, not for the budget, not for the company, I will mention the city of Đakovo, but for the mayor. And his head will fall down, and his will will be pursued by the State's attorneyship. Finally, public companies must be successful on the market, not political syncure. And more importantly, regardless of how members of the Supervisory Board will be elected, whether it is state-owned or city-owned companies, the results of the business and the results of the work and management and the Supervisory Board must be the most important. We're about to replace all those who brought the company into bankruptcy, no matter how they're named. And for the rest of those companies to do their job successfully. No matter what political options they come from.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2049	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2050	One last sentence. A successful surgeon does not have to be a member of the political party, it is important that the operation is successfully completed and that the patient survives. In this way, I'm afraid that many patients will die, thanks to political appointments, by resolving coalition relations, not on the sickbed, but on the market, and that's the least we all want.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2051	Now that's the third sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2052	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2053	Thank you. Mr. Representative Davorin Mlakar on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2054	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to try to classify the exposure on behalf of the HDZ club into two groups, if you agree, the reasons why the HDZ club will not support this law. First there are two formal reasons, and then I'll say something about the essence later. So the first reason why we think it makes no sense to support such a proposal is the fact that the government has proposed that this law be adopted in an emergency procedure or by an emergency procedure, avoiding two law readings in order to correct this text through discussion and possible remarks if possible. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure and which states exceptionally, therefore, exceptionally from two readings, the law can only be adopted by emergency procedure when the interests of defence and other particularly justified state reasons are required, i.e. where necessary to prevent or eliminate major disturbances in the economy. These are the only reasons when the law is passed by emergency procedure. The fact that you stated that this law should be brought into line with the recently passed bad laws on civil servants, on the rights of civil servants, is not the reason set out in Article 159, and probably would not have suffered public interests if it had tried to pass this law in a regular procedure. In addition, it is even less clear why the final provision of this law is that the law enters into force on the day of its publication in the National Journal. So, in this proposal, you did not leave even that democratic minimum standard to vacatio legis or time limit so that everyone to whom the law applies can become familiar with the content of the law, so that at least you left an 8-day notice in the People's Newspaper that the law enters into force. These are the formal reasons why we oppose the adoption of such a law, of course, something was said in previous discussions, I will try to sublime our objections to the following. This law changes the existing law only de facto into two things. It is one that introduces new categories of state officials and thereby further disrupts the established structure in the state administration and the one concerning the holder of political functions. Another thing that is also within the reach of this Law, which says norm, is to delete a public tender. So two are the changes proposed by this law. One is a new category of state officials and the other is to delete a public tender. As regards the adoption of new officials in the amendments to this law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, this is, of course, a possible variant in this Law, although it may not be the happiest solution for this law to state and list all those who are considered officials in the Republic of Croatia but given the need for harmonisation, it is of course that you have settled this in Article 1 of this Act. To indicate that you are again and I will repeat what you have tried to convince your colleagues and on the parliamentary committees, introduce the Chief Director of Police as a political function in the Republic of Croatia, that the Director of the Tax Administration is now a political duty, that the Secretary-General of the Government has appeared instead of the Secretary of State, that there is a State Auditor, that there is a General Secretary of the Constitutional Court then simply questions why there is no Secretary-General of the Parliament since there are more secretaries here, and all the way to the Deputy Head of the Office of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the head of the Office of the President of the Croatian Parliament, who is in line with the Prime Minister and otherwise the Assembly is led in these categories in front of the Government, and that is probably by the precedent should be, it is even the order of these functions. A spokesman for the Government of the Republic of Croatia becomes a political duty with us, as well as assistant ministers who are only a new function for current civil servants who, until the amendment of the Law on civil servants, had the same responsibilities and obligations as current assistants, only had a slightly lower salary, but you removed their jobs so that you could de facto replace them and appoint new officials once again to the minister's rank. Of course, with a higher salary than the principals had as civil servants. This principle, which is now implemented already in the second law, after the Law on Civil Servants, not only is it not good, this way you have violated the quality of the state service again, you have brought down the rank of civil servants for at least one more degree lower, and all the time we repeat that our state administration is bad and that we need to professionalise it, strengthen it and make it better. You're doing exactly the opposite. You, instead of raising the rank of civil servants, you're putting it down and you're naming people as politically similar to those of the civil servants so far. Because in the later articles of this same Law, what has been the rule so far that these people are chosen through competitions, now no more competitions are needed, there is only political resemblance. And some things can be defended, you know to me it's clear that most of your efforts will defend and explain the government's position in view of these statements. But this is a question of whether the more objective selection criteria are competitions that determine the characteristics of people who are selected, the conditions, the expertise, the work experience, the language skills, the testing, and after that talks to do the rank list and what you said in the introduction of a law but it takes a lot of time, which is true, it takes months to read the best, is simply an insult to common sense that someone claims that the political criterion is more transparent, fairer or objective than the criteria of competition on which people will be chosen in any job or in this case of duty. In view of this, we think that in addition to the objection of this type you have de facto done something worse that you have hurt and internationally undertaken obligations because the Republic of Croatia has committed to depolitizing the state administration and not only now to politicise the state administration, we are doing the same thing in companies owned by the state or owned by units of local self-government. What was an objection or what they said and should be noted for competitions in the supervisory boards of companies has already been organised and schools that have passed a number of people to obtain special qualifications so that they can compete in those jobs. From now on, or from the adoption of this Law, it will of course no longer matter. And all those who are under that criterion will fall out because in the transitional provisions, you have left the possibility that all those selected in the competition will be doing the job only until the moment until they are appointed politically similar. I don't think you're doing these favors to the government or these companies that the government should worry about. As taught by what was said earlier, this is not a special responsibility of the government or the government takes responsibility for this. The Government shall assume responsibility under the Constitution, Article 115. The Constitution is prescribed the government's responsibility for the situation in the whole country and for the resolutions it covers. Therefore, to say that because you will politically appoint members of the Supervisory Board, the government has taken some responsibility is nonsense. The government has responsibility under the Constitution, and the principle of choice is a principle that will guarantee objectively and honestly elected people who should lead these companies. Unfortunately, you weren't ready to do that. But to interpret all the time that political similarity is a transparent, objective or better criterion than a competition that has ever been worth, it is indeed an insult to common sense. And in the end, fifteen years is exactly this principle of saying alimony or putting all the people in these companies you've been talking about, just de facto the last year of 2011. The members of the Board of Commerce and Supervisory Boards shall be selected by invitation to tender. So all those objections that you've highlighted as someone who didn't know what it was about, they should be attributed to the model that you're now returning with this law, and that's the worst you could do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2055	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, go ahead. And let me tell you by the way that the deadline for the speech application is up. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2056	Mr. President, let me answer a few of the things that were brought out in the debate, but I'll stick to the subject. So this is the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, and the topic we are talking about, the way members of the Supervisory Board are appointed has nothing to do with conflict of interest, and we know very well why this matter was in the Law of Conflict of Interest. The conflict of interest is drawn between private and public. Whether you are appointed by the Government on the basis of a tender or appointing, you can always come into conflict of interest regardless of how you are appointed. That's the first one. But we know the reasons why it was in this law. So, I'm not going to spread the subject any further. Secondly, as regards the objection of increasing the number of officials covered by the Law on Conflict of Interest, I consider it commendable, as more people will have to keep an eye on the provisions of the Law on Conflict of Interest. Therefore, it is in some way a counter argument for not accepting the law. So if 20 more people need to give property cards, they need to fall under conflict of interest, that's commendable. The government thus makes it difficult or difficult, but let's say it increases the number of people who fall under conflict of interest which is good. As far as the management thing that MP Mlakar said is concerned, it's not the subject of this law. So, however, we can discuss this when there is a theme of management, there is no problem. And another thing that's trying to spend and kind of takes for granted. That's two things. First, if someone is on political duty, the Deputy Minister, Assistant Minister, State Secretary before, does not necessarily mean that he is incompetent or that he is politically similar. He is only on political duty and knows that after a change of government falls under the law on the transfer of power. After all, you have examples of state secretaries from the last government who are now in office in this government. You have examples of the director of the last government who were appointed assistant ministers in this government. But they know that when there is a change of government that falls under the Law on Change of Government. So I don't see much of a problem here. by their appointment, not by competition, they have become neither more corrupt nor less capable. Therefore, they were appointed in a different way, and this is the only thing that depends on them to cease their duties on the basis of which they were appointed. Secondly, it is also not necessary that if someone is appointed by a tender that is not politically committed or not as it is said politically. Thus, the same thing cannot be fully equated. Therefore, we think that this is a more transparent solution that allows the Government to perform its functions in these bodies at any moment, but allows another government to do the same, and also enables local self-government units, representative bodies to participate in corporate governance in their own ownership. Therefore, this is not a law written for one political option because at a local level we have more political options. We also have HDZ, we have HDSSB, we have HNS, IDS, SDP whose members perform duties in representative bodies or mayors will have the opportunity to answer for the people they have appointed. And this isn't a law that describes someone's criminal responsibility, but this is a law to prevent conflicts of interest. What we're changing right now really has nothing to do with the conflict of interest, and, of course, management of companies is a special topic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2057	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2058	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, you have incorrectly said that this is a better solution and that this has nothing to do with the law with the supervisory committees and the management of the supervisory committees. Mr. Minister is an important principle, and the principle of the HDZ government and under the chairmanship of Ms. Kosor was depolitisation and public administration and management of companies in supervisory committees, and we have passed a whole series of laws precisely because of the European Commission and because of Croatia's European environment and the conclusion of negotiations. Our goal was to depolitise the public administration, but also the supervisory committees, and we gave it in our report to the European Commission. It's a whole series of laws. This is just one of a series of laws that applies to that. And you've gone three steps backwards with this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2059	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. First, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2060	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister and Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I support the adoption of this law and perhaps more than one other law should be passed by emergency procedure. The question today and that is why, before I explain it, those who talk about depoliticalism today when they say it and the way they say it, and the works behind them really aren't their subjects, and really when they talk, they sound like abdominals. In fact, the question that this law apostrophes is a question which today, when asked, causes subjugation and suspicion and raises suspicion, which is a question of responsibility. For what? Because irresponsibility was assumed, and everything else was questionable and suspicious. Question, who's asking who? Someone's always got to set someone up. By some logic of the matter if it were a public tender, if the required proposition would be expected to guarantee maximum objectivity. However, we have enjoyed these public procurements and unfortunately the biggest problem of public procurement is not a problem of small digression and a small comparison, I think it was established analogy and allowed, in this sense that in a larger amount the Republic of Croatia was stolen from the basis of public competitions than those who did not exercise God but were also misusing and were on the other side of the law. In Croatia, therefore, there is a greater problem of illegality or lawlessness and robbery that took place under the cover of the Tobos and such competition institutes, as well as other forms, and when that form is spread behind it, there is something that only this authority will have to deal with. This is one of the first steps of that one prevention and therefore you don't have to jump there because, not these people, the key people in the board and the supervisory boards are not going to be elected to the competition. Who chose those people who responded to the contest? Look at the little structure of the people that came. But let's let it go, there's always someone closer to someone, even ignore it. But what are the consequences of their actions, so they turned Croatia black. I am not going to talk now about the actions that take place in the courts of Croatia, but it is my duty and our duty to prevent these things from being prevented, to see something that may have arisen in some good intentions in its opposite. We can't be immune and stand by. These people were appointed to public competitions, we launder as Pontius Pilate responsible for their actions. What the director of a state-owned company was doing there, how she was doing business, that we didn't care, that the ruling one didn't care. He's been elected there for a public competition, so please go and talk to him. When things are set up like that, when they're set up like that, then really the one who calls for responsibility can say that, to some extent, he can say that. And the one who's set up there can also say I've been chosen, which you have to ask me and question. So I will repeat, not afraid of those words because these words are necessary for Croatia, of course they may still be a form but they should be given content such as responsibility and solidarity issues. So the government takes absolute responsibility for those they will appoint. Likewise, there is an old form left for those who will choose who have appeared on the basis of a public competition. In fact, that form is less of a thing, and we're arguing about it here, and we're supposed to argue about the results of that way. Once there was someone and here recently I thought my colleague Leko on the board said, always someone has to name someone and the government itself just because the chosen democratically elected person has not automatically received such legitimacy that he can do what he wants and that no one can ask them. That is, therefore, the assumption that the government is taking responsibility, and how it will be ruled is the issue of transparency and constant questioning. Of course, the first ones were called in by ruling to control but also by opposition to question. Both the government and those who take action, especially those who manage large assets, they are constantly, each of their actions must be pre-suspecting. They are not the accused of being proven guilty by someone else, they themselves must constantly justify their actions and interpret them. I think that's what we need to make a deal about. And whether you agree or not, but really the contest, I say maybe he was at the best but he eventually turned into that the cover to run away from responsibility and it can no longer be tolerated. I've already said that on the board and I'm going to ask again a question so not only for the government that had these people, who now has double responsibility as under the old Roman law, it's always the one who chooses, and even the one responsible... In the competition, you had a few options, why you chose to do so, and you ran away from that responsibility. [[You don't understand.]] Let's remember... in elogene, the mistake in choosing, always stands, and especially those persons who take responsibility. [[You don't understand.]] If they take responsibility, and they are not up to it, they are also responsible for the work they are not up to. And so far, we've had this situation to say they don't know what's going on in a particular company. The government often said that we don't know what was going on. Some who knew and knew well answered. So when my colleague here, our colleague Marin Jurjevic asks the former prime minister where the money from Brodosplit is right for him, I know who your uncle is. So do we still want answers like that? You see, this kind of thing doesn't go down in court anymore, and he knows who his uncle is, and he doesn't burn it anymore, and he's not gonna score any points. So in 2003 we had a Penal Code in which we incorporated the responsibility of management structures i.e. members of the Management and Supervisory Boards. Unfortunately, we know how this KZ ended, the Penal Code novel, and fortunately we've passed a good new Penal Code, I think that in some things it needs to be fixed, but it's bad that it goes into effect only in 2013. He's not a resolute minister here, but he's a member of the government and he certainly needs to take care of it, not only to protect workers, not pay the wages as soon as possible, and also to be responsible for management structures. Only then, here is Mr. Minister, and this law which is a good form but which needs to be given content, to immediately incorporate their responsibility, so that members of the boards of directors and supervisors whenever something happens in the company, any shortfall on any basis or bad business that they may be called to account. Under our current Penal Code, unfortunately, because this one is not yet in its full application, especially this provision of misappropriation of trust which I say is specifically designed for this kind of people, for managers, for company managers, that we have today had one situation or still have and where some can really defend themselves before the court and also to the general public and when they are not yet called to the judiciary, so you wait for me to know about these things, so even though they are members of the board and members of the Board of Supervisors. In the good part, they may not have known, but no one should accept such a job because it will be under the new Penal Code, I appeal once again for it to come into force as soon as possible in order to achieve this material responsibility, so that no one can be told because it is nowhere to be exculpatory, ignorance is therefore no escape from responsibility or justification from responsibility. Unfortunately, that's what we've had so far, that's what we enjoyed. And I think that it is common to all of us that companies are primarily as important as it is in France and many other countries that have introduced capitalism long ago are engines for the development of Croatia, not engines and what has led Croatia into the black, or source of development, rather than the source of corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2061	Thank you very much. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. The Honorable representative of Đurjica twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2062	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Antičević, it is incorrect in your debate when you said that this law is in reality a prevention so that Croatia does not turn black. So I'll tell you something about the City of Zagreb. This is exactly the kind of brilliant and fantastic solution you have for Zagreb Holding. Here you have politically set up the Board of Supervisors and the Management Board and there you do not know who is stealing, where the money is finished, how much Zagreb is down. My colleague Antičević, Zagreb is turned black in just this kind of policy, just by solving the legal regulations that you now try to impose on us in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2063	Thank you very much. The next correction was requested by the respected representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2064	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Agent Antičević said that members of the Supervisory Board were elected in such a way that they turned Croatia black and that we are looking at these cases today in front of the courts. It's one of a series of incorrect allegations. I warned the lady of the committee and the committee, but apparently she doesn't think it's false. It is true that this Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, which introduced this way of elections and appointments of members of the Supervisory Board, was amended in 2010 and the first members of the Supervisory Board were thus appointed only at the end of 2010. Therefore, people should not be offended in relation to them, because it is a criminal offence if they are given a criminal offence that they did not commit. Therefore, there is no criminal procedure against these people at any stage of criminal proceedings, and it is therefore not fair to repeat it here at the plenary session after the warning that it is simply not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2065	Thank you very much. The next correction of the incorrect quote is the respected representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2066	Mr. Vice President, that's the content that the esteemed representative Lovrin just said. The members of the Supervisory Board appointed under the last law have been appointed over the past year. I said that on behalf of the club and none of them as far as we know were invited to any kind of responsibility, especially criminal. And I think it is inadmissible that in this way interpreting the goodwill of the bill's proposal it speaks of people whom this Law does not apply at all. What is now proposed brings us back to that time and to those people who are called to account for their actions.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2067	Thank you very much. Four MPs reported on the replica. The first in line is Honorable Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2068	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague. The question of responsibility is really important, and if you listened to my presentation on behalf of the HDSSB Club, you could notice that indeed the way in which members of the Supervisory Board or administration are elected is not so important. But returning to the political appointment. We are going back a step, and here through the referendum we will probably and finally enter the European Union that has far different criteria. But this issue of responsibility must be equal at all levels of decision. Therefore, if the Government is an executive and if it appoints both the administrations and members of the Supervisory Boards under this Act, then that possibility must be legal at other levels of government behaviour and from regional self-government, up to the local, to the least of the municipalities with one great difference that the Croatian Parliament has appointed both the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister and the entire government, while local self-government and regional self-government heads of local self-government who are the only responsible for the functioning of the units of local self-government have been elected directly, directly through. And very quickly, and here I especially appeal to the SDP mayors he has here, but also to everyone else. Very quickly, what happened before the direct election in almost all units of local self-government could happen to them that for 500,000, thousands for ice cream sold councilman, lost most in a particular representative body only end and no longer have the possibility of supervision in companies where local self-government is the majority owner or owner of that company. [[Leko: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2069	Thank you very much. The next line will be presented by the respected representative Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2070	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Antičević, what was it and it was bad. It was bad we all know why and how bad it was. Some times it was wrapped up in this democratic cellophane. Some times it's not even in some environments, I'm talking about local self-government. Things are very clear. The sheriff determines everything he does regardless of the cellophane around him. But you mentioned the responsibility of how well I listened and counted 16 times. Responsibility is a key thing, but we need to decide here there are two branches of responsibility. One branch is the responsibility of those people who have been chosen to manage public companies to be on boards, boards, in the administration as already, and their responsibility is legal above all and above all legal. They should also be responsible for their actions, and the other responsibility is for those who chose them. This responsibility should be subject to something I would call a political code and that is something that we should introduce into political life. So if I chose the wrong man for the wrong place and that man did the wrong thing my political responsibility tells me that I have to step away from that place because I don't know how to choose people. I don't know if that's the consequence of this law. If it is, then it's democratic law. If not, then I doubt my intentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2071	Thank you very much. Replication response, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2072	Here's my colleague Vuljanic for a little while, I think that's exactly what this last question of yours is and the answer lies in this law. But, of course, that law should be complimented with those other laws that I've said something about, and what you're saying is certainly a matter of responsibility which is a higher level and which more people are involved especially when it comes to the political level is greater and responsibility because they are higher and pay. It's something that even implies. And with us looking at our society as low as possible, only the worker is responsible, he is responsible to everyone, and often he should not be responsible because he is responsible for others. You can imagine a turner who falls asleep, and he's in that place, and he's set up for it, and he says what you call me responsible when I didn't know that train was passing. And he didn't know it, but it's his job to know it. And everyone will be responsible. But the director of the company didn't know, he was esculating, the minister didn't know he was esculating, the Prime Minister didn't know he was esculating. This is our problem, which is a higher level of responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2073	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, distinguished representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2074	Which should have been before the replica of the Rules of Procedure, but here is the injured article 214. The honourable representative asked, you don't have to give a warning, but I think in local self-government, there are no sheriffs or marshals in the region, but they are directly elected local self-government leaders. If you don't understand what it's like to sign up for the next local election, get 50% of the votes and become a local sheriff. It's very hard, very hard. But the people know who they're voting for.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2075	A colleague, Vinkovic, is not an injury to the Rules of Procedure, I claim in front of the entire Croatian public.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2076	It's a hell of a thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2077	But I'm deciding now. That's life.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2078	Well, you can, look, you can decide, but
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2079	I wouldn't pollemize. And second, do not impoverish Croatian. Let the man say that he thinks it's good. I'd like you to give some freedom and imagination to the MPs to express how they think it's best. ... Thank you very much. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much, I heard. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Be parliamentary and ask for a word. Thank you very much. The next representative respected... And there's more? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay, sorry. The next representative who is entitled to the replica is the respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2080	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Although I was also offered by my colleagues Ingrid this word of responsibility that you mentioned 16 times, as my colleague's neighbor said here, but in this material, there are no rules on liability or sanctions prescribed by any responsibility in any other law. How are you going to sanction the City Council or the County Assembly for putting the wrong man on the board? How can you do that? Furthermore, this legislative proposal that you spoke of in such a way as to bespeak, it is the same or crossed law that ruled from 2000 to 2004. And then we know that there were people who were appointed by the government to the board of directors, who performed 28 functions in the 28 supervisory committees. Is that a good thing? At some point, I'm not saying it's all the time. Furthermore, we know well about situations and affairs at the time both in INA and Shipyard, and who is sanctioned by these supervisory committees? Well, there are some ministers in the government today. And they were board members, and now we're talking about those INA sales affairs and everything. You can't argue that way, they're all bad, and everybody else is good. The management system itself and the supervisory boards have not yet come to the right solution. Because the clientalism and nepotism that these same supervisory committees carry out equally will be carried out and carried out during these cokes yes or corn. It's so clear and obvious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2081	I assume, Your Honor, that you've been thinking about company assemblies, and not local units' congregations and representative bodies?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2082	Can I answer that?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2083	You may, you may.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2084	You said, i.e. in this legislative proposal, that members of supervisory committees in commercial societies owned by cities or counties are appointed by the County Assembly or the City Council. So, if a bad man is elected chairman of the Supervisory Board, are we going to replace the County Assembly or the City Council for that? That's what I was saying about the situation. And at the state level, are we going to replace the government of the Republic of Croatia? Whether to offer resignation for a poor member of the Supervisory Board or president, such as HEP, HAC, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2085	Thank you very much. The next one came from a respected representative, Đuro Popiac. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2086	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Therefore, it is also necessary to know clearly about public undertakings, therefore state-owned companies and private ownership of governments or is subject to equal commercial law. And the role of supervisory committees and the role of management is exactly the same in private-owned companies and state-owned enterprises. Therefore, of course, to say that the consequences of the actions of the people selected in the public competitions in the supervisory committees are black or, as you have already said, a harsh violation of the professional dignity of these people. I'll just tell you a few numbers because you're probably not familiar with it. Company d.d. JANAF leaves at this moment to future obviously supervisors and manages 630 million kuna cash on the account and 2 billion investments in the course of 0 kuna debt to suppliers. INA, we will not talk about it now, where Croatia is mostly owned, but the same three members were elected by the Croatian Supervisory Board government by prominent Croatian oil experts. Petrochemy 140 million kuna to get in last year. Croatia's electricity industry 400 million kuna in 2011 gets with 0 kuna debt to suppliers probably for the first and last time in history. So that is, these are administrations and these are supervisory committees that have wrapped Croatia in black. And remember these numbers because we're going to ask you after you what you're going to do and what numbers you're going to leave in these companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2087	Thank you very much. Replicate response, respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2088	Who's going to ask who's asking us that? We need to answer. And we're also all responsible for the citizens here, but I think it's a good thing that you said that in private companies, when you pulled the parallel we agree on, and that's where people are chosen without competitions. It's in the control structure. And what you've listed now, companies that have done well, so that's supposed to be. What about these others? You say these were left in the budget, or in the profits themselves, we will not return to the distant past which is the boomer of all those companies that have left themselves just to develop and modernise the spilling into the state budget and untraceable, but this answer here, when you so require such an answer, I didn't mean to talk about both the things where the money didn't end up there, but ended up in a bag and who knows where else.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2089	Thank you very much. We've exhausted replicas and corrections of incorrect allegations and responses to the replica. We are now going to the original debate of the respected representative, Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2090	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Minister and Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. So, this bill has two amendments, the first refers to a new list of state officials, and the second refers to how the supervisory boards are chosen in companies where the state has stakes, i.e. shares or shares. Through this debate, we could hear that it will be such changes to the problem of negotiations, of harmonising domestic legislation with European legislation and even so far away that the European Commission will react, however, I would like to say this. My thinking is that every government that has won the election on its programme has the right to organise itself so that the programme is implemented. If this government has decided to organise itself so that there are no State Secretarys but its assistants, it is her right. And as when the former government introduced the state secretary's office by abolishing the assistants, I also thought it was her right to organise her work and work and set up how best she would implement the programme she won the election. Therefore, I do not think this should be questionable at all and that this has nothing to do with our membership in the European Union because we have different systems in the countries of the European Union. From the presidential system, parliamentary system, semi-presidential, office, etc. Therefore, this should not cause doubt. And as for how to appoint supervisory committees in state-owned companies, majority, 100% or where the state has stakes, I think that a law on commercial societies that is in line with European legislation should be applied directly. What is said there, owners, are members of the congregation of the stock company. They shall have the right and they shall elect a supervisory board which shall supervise the operation and appoint the administration of a multi-member or one-member company. What would be the problem if it were not also done in state-owned enterprises, but that is where the Commercial Society Act applies. You don't even have to choose management at the competition. These provisions differ in the statutes of companies as the administration is elected. Somewhere in the competition, it's chosen without competition, it's the right of the owner to decide because the shareholders' assemblies are taking statutes and it's the right of the owner to decide how the administration will be elected. The company law provides for the responsibilities of the management and supervisory boards. That is why every year, the congregation of shareholders gives discharge to the congregation if it is satisfied with what business it was in one year. Therefore, after one year, it may be possible not to obtain a discharge from the Supervisory Board or the Management Board, they shall be changed. Why wouldn't it be in state-owned enterprises like that? In Croatia, state-owned monopolies are many. These monopolies only because the monopolies should have a high share in the business, so they are very profitable because there is no reason to, for example, the electricity industry, the Croatian railways that even receive subsidies from the budget and make losses do so. They should be well-intentioned investors, not the state budget. From infrastructure, energy, etc. Well then, this amounts to getting at the end of the year of HEP or some other companies can be discussed whether it's not real, is it not too low. Just by being here in front of the judicial authorities right now, the responsible people from these companies in one period are responding to what business was like in these companies. So, what I'm saying is that state-owned enterprises are not the property of the government or the parliament, that's the property of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and that's why it's only increased responsibility for how these companies are managed. Because if they deal with losses, citizens must compensate for these losses through tax revenues or through the state budget. And that's why this is a sensitive question. And in the way that the Supervisory Board or the Management Board is appointed, whether it is in a political way if there is no competition or there is no politicisation or policy involved, it has nothing to do with it. If we go to extremes in such a way, then all appointments appointed by the Parliament are political and all appointments appointed by the Government are political. Whether she was in the competition or not. The Company Act did not say what kind of education a member of the Supervisory Board must have, and this is suitable for certain institutions that organised seminars of some supplementary education, gave some kind of certificate or diploma to a certain number of people who should have a monopoly to be in the supervisory boards of companies. The company law also prescribes if companies, i.e. how many supervisory boards can be one person. And it can't happen that someone is in the 28th or as many words of the board of directors here, and also the statutes of the trading companies prescribes who can't be a member of the Supervisory Board because they're thus fighting against unfair competition. Therefore, the election of members of the supervisory boards in state-owned companies will be as much as the responsibility of the people who actually propose such members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2091	Thank you very much. We have a request for a correction of an incorrect quote on your exposure. Honorable representative Ana Lovrin will make that correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2092	Thank you very much. Well, here's a colleague, Zgrebec, talking about these two changes in two ways of amending this law, and she said that the different definition and alignment with the State Administration System Act, or the number of officials, had nothing to do with Croatia's accession to the EU. But that's not true. I agree with my colleague that any political option has the right to establish executive power in that part of how it thinks it will best implement its programme. So, about the Government Act, I wouldn't do anything, it has nothing to do with it. The Law on the Construction and Circular of Ministries and other Central Authorities, however, the Law on the System of State Administration and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Servants, as well as the provisions of the negotiating chapters, and the negotiating positions in which Croatia has committed itself to depolitisation in part of the public administration, thus reducing the rank of civil servants who are politically variable with each change of government. So in that sense, it has a lot to do with it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2093	Thank you very much. We have one replica. The replica was reported by a respected representative of Šima Djurdjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2094	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I used the replicas institute on purpose so my colleague could respond if he wanted to. You said in your debate thesis certainly that you in the Kukurik coalition got the majority, you have the right to have the majority bring, change, supplement the law, but I am surprised by the way it is done and by the colleagues who defend that law. Here, for example. We all advocated that the direct selection of mayors, mayors, mayors, Mayor of the City of Zagreb in the first session of the law was changed. We unanimously passed the Executive Act, put it out of service. Today, you and your colleagues have also advocated that members of the supervisory board are selected by competition, and now these same people claim that this competition institute is not good. I don't think that's correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2095	Thank you very much. We have a reply to the replica of the esteemed representative, Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2096	I wasn't talking about officials or tenants, or the Law on Local Self-Government, the direct selection of mayors, I was talking about concrete changes in this law. And I said I'd never mind, that every government would edit how it would work the way they thought it was best. The HDZ government thought it best that members of the supervisory board be selected by competition. A government that's up to date says it's not necessary. We do not violate the Company Act, nor did we violate it when we said that we would choose this competition neither now nor now. Therefore, this is the decision of the current government and it has the right to do so and if it gets a majority in Parliament, so will it. As it was a year ago when the Croatian government then proposed that members of the supervisory boards in state-owned enterprises be selected through competitions. It was her right and she got her support on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2097	Thank you very much. In a word and in 10 minutes, a respected representative, Ana Lovrin, appeared. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2098	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister. We heard in this debate from the ruling majority in the Croatian Parliament almost 20, 30 times the word responsibility. That was terribly important. Okay. Here I ask the question, what is the responsibility and where is the responsibility of the prime minister, where is the responsibility of ministers in the Croatian government who almost daily urged Croatian citizens to go to the referendum and vote to join the EU last week? Wasn't that hypocritical, since this government is proposing, and this majority of parliament will now pass a third or fourth law that directly violates the negotiating positions. If you forget, I will only talk about this segment which belongs to the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, we started with the criteria for opening up for chapters 23 at the end of 2007, then we were obliged to revise the Anti-Corruption Action Plan, so the revised Anti-Corruption Strategy with the Action Plan, then we handed over the negotiating positions and opened negotiations in 2009 and then we got the criteria for opening and closing in 2010. In these criteria, it is taxively listed what the Republic of Croatia will do and what needs to be done to ensure that this chapter is temporarily closed. And based on that, an access contract has been signed. Now that we have signed the basis of this all-access Treaty, when Croatian citizens are invited by the current prime minister and by the current Croatian government to say that the EU, we are now systematically passing laws that change what is written in the negotiating positions. I will repeat, the opening criteria say literally under criterion 6 "The Republic of Croatia needs to strengthen prevention measures in the fight against corruption, and in particular increase transparency and the integrity of public administration and commercial companies owned by the state". The 2010 Action Plan against Corruption, which also showed the European Commission the basis for negotiations concluded under measure 6 in preventing a chapter of conflict prevention of interest, reads "To bring amendments to the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties and the Law on the Mandatory Rights of Croatian Officials which would be prescribed that members of the Supervisory Boards of Commerce be elected through public tenders". This is an action plan, based on this action plan, the law has been amended and has been substantiated before the closure of the European Commission's chapters that we have done everything, that we have implemented and appointed members of the Supervisory Boards as the basis of a public tender and now we are changing it. So, I think I just don't know who can claim that the political appointment without any announcement without any knowledge of anyone that it's more transparent than it is to be appointed on the basis of a public tender when the general Croatian public announced that for the management of commercial societies owned by the state, so on public property, people who consider themselves to have knowledge, skills, ability and will to act in that capacity to apply. And then, of course, the government of those people who have their CVs, who will illustrate what they know and how they are educated, will then make a decision about who it thinks is best for the job and is irrelevant to what political options it is, even though then the political option that is close to the government does not mind if it shows that it has qualifications, knowledge and ability to behave in this job. The argument we heard from the HNS representative on behalf of the club when he spoke, that one of the arguments for the adoption of this law is that it was not implemented at local level. Oh, come on, I've never heard of a reason to break the law because someone didn't do it. The fact that the HNS and SDP, for example, in Zagreb and Holding did not implement the law that should have been implemented cannot be a reason to repeal the law. It can't be a good argument. And they didn't lift it exactly because counterpart Beus said that at the local level, the places serve political synergy. So since they didn't have the strength, the courage, whatever, to lift the political synergy and announce the public tender, now we're going to change that law so that those synergys are in accordance with the law. Also, someone on behalf of the SDP seemed to be telling me that the owner chooses the supervisory board after the ZTD. Right, it's chosen by the owner. He owns the state. In this law, and also in the amendment, we have, as counterpart Vinkovic said, a double way of choosing, so at the state level, it will now be named according to this proposal by the executive authority or government, and at the local level it will be by the representative body. If we go by the logic that the owner appoints members of the Supervisory Board, which is true, and that the owner of the state or unit of local or regional self-government, and that the ex-legation is managed by the Executive Authority, or the Mayor, Mayor and Government, then that level should be maintained to the local level or perhaps consider being transparent and that, at national level, that person confirms the Croatian Parliament as a legislative body, to be a pandan for the representative body at local level. And, of course, the argument that the owner sets up or appoints members of the Supervisory Board does not speak in favour of this law. The owner, under the Company Act, is indeed appointed members of the Supervisory Board. How the owner will do that is his business. In the case of private, private property, it's the owner's business whether he's gonna call the competition or not. In the case of state property, it is a matter of the legislator to prescribe whether it will be appointed by the Government, whether it will be appointed by the Parliament, whether it will be named on the basis of a public tender or not. Therefore, it would not in itself be illegal to appoint it without a public tender, but it is certainly and certainly less transparent, and above all contrary to the established negotiating positions and contrary to what we presented to the European Union in the Anti-Corruption Action Programme that it will be done and based on which the negotiating chapter 23 is closed. Finally, it would be good to say in fact that this law should be made clear to the Government that it could continue to politicise as it has in the amended laws further politicised the state public administration, that it is necessary to further politicise public enterprises and that they need some instrument or some way to replace all those who were appointed a year ago by the basis of a public tender by the previous Government. But I'd say that's why they shouldn't have reached out to the amendments to this law. According to the ZTD, they could have done so without amending this law if they wanted to. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2099	Thank you very much. Your Honor, we have two replicas of your colleagues on your exhibit. The first is a respected representative of the twilight Đurđica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2100	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, fellow Lovrin, here's what I'm listening to and look at you, what you're saying in reality is the fact that after the election, the food chain has insinuated, the appetites have grown and people need to be taken care of. And because of this, what is not Mr. Milanovic, I will not call him the sheriff, announced in my plan, the political cleanups have set off in such a strange way, being appointed to the supervisory committees of people who must not have their own opinion on Mr. Linic, but who will conduct only what will happen if he makes the wrong decision, whether Mr. Bauk will go to jail for it or will give all his property because someone had to conduct politics outside of his opinion. Or, for example, Will you be much faster to settle some loans for... at Mr. Cacic's, in Croatia's insurance. [[You don't understand.]] There won't be a lot of debates, because they'll say from above, please get rid of it, and it'll get rid of it. I think the people know and now they see what he's really got.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2101	Thank you very much. The answer to your line, the esteemed representative of Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2102	Thank you very much. Madam MPs, I certainly think that only that political option that wishes to completely dim the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board in public enterprises can be reached by the measure of amending the Law that has so far been prescribed and amended precisely because it has been established that there has been no good governance in public enterprises. This amendment of the law has been passed so that it can abolish the law which is chosen by the basis of a public tender for the reason that it is then a greater choice of people who are capable, qualified and have all the desired qualities for the conduct of the job.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2103	Thank you very much. On your presentation there is a replica and respected representative Josip Djakić. Here you are, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So here I would just like to say and repeat that the current legal solutions to conflict and to prevent conflicts of interest have been quite nomotechnical but also to the standards they have addressed and drawn close to the full criteria and criteria of the Member States of the European Union, that the solutions so far have been those that have closed Chapter 23. It was forgotten by gentlemen when they went to amend and supplement this Law, that in all segments they met what most European countries used and how they work on their political agenda. Today we can only call this a political panphlett which is another one of the blurred eyes of Croatian citizens. There is nothing here that would be useful and that would be concise and entirely special in protecting the public goods of the Republic of Croatia. Since 2003, several times the law has changed to find the best, most qualitative, most efficient solutions by harmonising them with European standards and norms, and so is this law that you are changing today. The model of institutional resolution and prevention of conflicts of interest was most credible in such public procurements of the selection of competent, professional and quality people proven in the economy and who have enabled their work, as you have heard today, that these public companies in the Republic of Croatia are doing business with profit and benefit from the state budget. So today I can say when the private interests of officials are contrary to public interests, then today you show best how you will use public powers to appoint those who will have neither competence nor anything but will be only politically similar. Finally, we can conclude that the bar is small, and the crocodile is too small.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2105	Thank you very much. In ten minutes on this subject, respected representative Branko Bačić. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2106	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It seems to me another replica was in the meantime, but it wasn't. Okay. So here is the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, although it is brief and it has all five articles all insufficient to show the government's clear commitment that the criteria within the state administration with expertise, with knowledge, are transferred to a political similarity or that in places that have so far been determined according to the criteria of competition, according to the criteria of success, the values in the state administration are replaced by the criteria of political membership. What I believe we will all agree here is that it is the fact that all of us, that our mouths are full of the need for further professionalisation of the administration, for further depoliticalisation, and that on this trail we have passed the government in negotiations with the European Union trying to make laws governing the system of state administration right on track and further professionalisation and depolitisation of the state administration. Through a proposal of this law that only complies with the Law on the System of State Administration, the Law on Civil Servants, the Law on State Officials. But yet he, as I said, clearly points out that we have set ourselves up for another criterion that is not good for me and will not contribute to what this government intends to do in the section relating to the state administration. I'll elaborate that through two examples. The first example is, therefore, the re-instituting of the assistant minister in which it was practical, and this has already been the subject of talks these days and the current morning, and today during the debate, we have replaced the post of director or secretary of the ministry practically by giving him all the jobs that the director of the administration had until then. The Head of the Administration in the State Administration System should be a person who has indeed passed a path to the State Administration that has acquired the relevant knowledge, which has been further improved, a person who has passed a certain degree of experience, I would say, a certain working experience in the system of state administration and practically poses a challenge to every civil servant to become, to come to the head of that body that practically carries out the most complex tasks in the entire system of state administration. We have, in this way, reduced the position of director of the administration, reduced the level of progress in the state administration by one level so that practically the largest position a certain state official can reach in the state administration is reduced to the rank of head of department or possibly the rank of head of the sector, i.e. chief of service. I think it's demotive for the entire system of state administration and it shouldn't have been done, so clearly and in this context, then a clear position of the minister, the assistant minister wouldn't even be in this law and that's why I'm getting attached to it. If the criteria set out in the government's programme at the beginning were to be cited, it was a motive to reduce the number of government officials, then in the end, here only a month after the government was appointed did not happen. Because if it is, and the fact is that there were 67 state secretaries in the last government and if we add 19 members of the government to that, including the Prime Minister and two vice-presidents who didn't have a portfolio, that's still only 86 state officials we can consider a team of state officials in the narrow sense of government. In this way, we, according to the Prime Minister, will have 3, 5 to 7 ministerial assistants in each ministry, so let's take one average number of four ministerial assistants. That's still 80 assistant ministers. If we add 20 deputy ministers to that, that's 100. And another 22 members of the government. It is 122 members of the government that are somewhere almost 50% more government officials in the government's narrow composition compared to the previous government. So I really don't see, I don't see what the reason would be, and the reason why it led the government to abolish the director's office or secretary of the ministries, the persons who were civil servants, who, thanks to their work, knowledge, the virtues appointed by the basis of the competition to that function and practically subordinated them to the appointments of assistant ministers who, and I don't want to say, are not going to be good. They don't have to be good, but part of them practically becomes a ministerial assistant to come to this ministry for the first time, the management, manages the most complex jobs in the ministry and practically doesn't have to have a day's work in the system of state administration. So it's on one side demoting, not good. And I don't think that was the government's well-measured move when it went into that part. The second part, which is also why I do not agree with this bill, is to give up the principle of selecting members of supervisory boards in commercial companies owned by a majority state or public undertakings. I, in fact, said to the Vice-President, that according to both the government's model of responsibility, the minister's responsibility remains unquestionable for the situation in the portfolio, for the state of the public enterprise as much as the Government has its responsibility for the situation in a particular public enterprise or in a particular sector. Therefore, it is not questionable that, in this way, by selecting members of the Supervisory Board through a public tender and by appointing, it is not disputed that the Minister and Government are still responsible for the state of play in the public enterprise, i.e. in a majority-owned company. However, the criteria and the model for us to come to members of the Supervisory Board through a public tender, which sets out a clear criterion for who can, for example, be a member of the Supervisory Board of Croatian Insurance or of another public firm, leads to the fact that the position can be reached by persons who, by their own means of life, meet the prescribed criteria with their knowledge. Therefore, among those who meet these criteria, it is easier, simpler, to determine the person who can do the job because all those who have fulfilled these criteria are virtually similar so that they can carry out the work professionally. Therefore, the Government has the legitimate right to propose to the Parliament that members of the Supervisory Board be appointed in another way than they have now been done and, as has been the case for the last 15 years, but in that period we have found that this was not a good way and therefore we have proposed a model whereby members of the Supervisory Board are chosen by the basis of a public tender. So it is clear from one example I have set, and another example, that we are giving up the principle of a public tender, which we are practically choosing persons primarily by the expertise that meets the criteria of being able to behave and not by missing persons who do not have to, but usually choose those places by their political or political likeness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2107	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We have two replicas on your exhibit. The first for replicas came from a respected representative of the coat of arms of Peđa. Here you go, counsel.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2108	Thank you. First of all, I would like to warn you that a respected colleague in his presentation did not exactly stick to the Rules of Procedure and in particular Article 210 of that Rules of Procedure when it comes to what an esteemed representative is allowed to say. I'm very sorry that you weren't in this assembly and you weren't discussing when we talked about the Law in the system of state administration. This law in its first part is in line with that. This House has passed the law, this House has defined who state officials are and it is therefore our obligation to extend the application of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest to the persons we appointed as state officials. So I don't see any question about what we're bringing here right now. And I'm sorry, I'm very sorry that your observations about whether it was necessary to expand the circle you didn't present when that debate was on the agenda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2109	Thank you very much. For reply to the replica, respected representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2110	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'd like to answer to my esteemed colleague, Mr. Grbino, that my debate was absolutely within the scope of what this law regulates. Today, we, for the first time in the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, also include an assistant minister. Therefore, through my debate, I made it clear why it is against the assistant minister to be in charge at all. Therefore, since I object to him being at all an official because this should continue to be the director of the administration or secretary of the ministry clearly, then I have the right and, in this sense, to oppose him and to be an official who enters among those officials to whom this Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest could potentially apply.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2111	Thank you very much. We have another replica on your exhibit. Honorable representative of Gordana Sobol. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2112	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Bačić, therefore, and you today and a series of your colleagues all day trying to convince the Croatian public that we are now further politicizing the state administration because we are directors of the administration, and instead of them, civil servants, we are putting ministerial assistants. My colleague Bačić, it's not a very short memory for us. Not to us who have been here for longer, not to our citizens. So let's remind the citizens what happened. Your government has appointed ministerial assistants neatly along the political line. It could have been like that under the past law. Then you changed that law, so you called the nice assistant ministers under cover of a public tender again as the government for directors of the administration. You've translated the people you've put in the seats of the assistant minister into a public competition with the directors of the administration. What's this really about? And then you say that you helped depolitize the state service. Well, I remind you that in several orderly reports, the attorney general told you exactly the same thing and warned you about what happened. And what it's about, well, this is if you want to do this today is what we've passed in the past law at least honestly, so it's known that they're appointed as political and when the government leaves then they go politically from that government and resign. Isn't that fairer than what you did? You renamed your political assistants directors, and now you're accusing us of politicizing. Come on, buddy. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2113	And the memory and knowledge is fragile, and the reply to the replica has respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2114	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Namely, fellow Sobol, you're wrong. And it is not difficult to run an analysis of how many former ministerial assistants were later appointed through the public tender system, selected... Slowly, elected director and secretary of the ministry. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's, and I'd be interested in that analysis, too, and we can make it see if you're right or wrong. So, however, the former government and previous governments have appointed ministerial assistants does not mean that it was a good system and that we would defend it today. And I'm holding it, and I've said it today and I keep saying that the system in which the director of the administration as a civil servant performs the most complex jobs in the state administration should be the person coming from that system, and it's right through the public tender system that allows him to do that position and that job that is identical to the job of the director of the administration, and that's the assistant minister can come to a person who hasn't spent a day in that system of state administration where specific knowledge is really needed. Therefore, in order to become the director of the administration, he must meet all the conditions prescribed, and we have done this job on the one hand to the European Commission, in the process of harmonising our legislation because we wanted to deprofessionalise and depolitise the state administration on the one hand, and, on the other hand, together with the World Bank, we are working on this process to strengthen and strengthen the entire system of state administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2115	Thank you very much. The Honorable Vice-President of the House Nenad Stazic reported on this debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2116	Thank you very much. Commercial companies owned by the Republic of Croatia which they are, they are public property, property of the Republic of Croatia, who is responsible for it? It's the one who runs it. Has the SDP managed these companies in the last eight years? It's not. Why not? It wasn't because he didn't have authority, it was opposition. Who was in charge? HDZ, HDZ authorities, and we know how she managed it. By way of members of the boards of directors and supervisory boards. Who was responsible for how it was managed? No one. We don't know if anyone's going to criminally respond, but it's none of our business. WAS there, however, a political response because of the fact that no one was going on in these companies? The members of the Supervisory Board were appointed by the Government. And only a year ago was applied why? It was found that the thief, that crime, that irregularities in these companies were so much that the former government wanted to escape from it. So let's just depolitize it quickly so we don't be politically responsible. Well, then we won't be politically responsible for what's happened so far. It was a modus operanti and so politically no one was responsible. What would this government need now? What do you suggest? To leave those people you put in these public companies where they've been stolen for eight years? What's your proposal? This government would be crazy if you agreed to something like that. Well, then she'll answer because those people in those companies you set up will work. What is this government doing? He takes responsibility and says clearly, we will put these people up, we are responsible for their work, and we answer politically, and you have the right as an opposition, to monitor the work of these companies, and to question the government why you appointed such supervisory committees and such boards. If they keep what's been going on for eight years, you're right. As we had the right for 8 years to ask you why there is no political responsibility, though we asked you in vain, not in vain. Because the answer was given by citizens in the election, so what does the citizens in the election want, what did they show they will? He wants the government responsible, wants the government responsible for its actions, he wants the government responsible for the property that's public, which is state-owned, that's what the government wants. And what does this law propose? It proposes such a responsibility by the government and you are now rebelling against it, it is completely unclear to me. This government would be easier to step aside from its responsibility and say so what we care about are chosen in a public competition, even we didn't choose them, they were chosen by HDZ and what the new Minister of Agriculture can now do. What he can now do in Croatian forests or waters, so he says that Cobankovic chose them, which I have to answer for. But the new minister won't and the new government isn't acting like it, but they say look, we'll name these people and we'll be responsible for their work. Is there anything more logical than that? I don't know what would be more logical than that. And why hide behind that public tender now, when it's known who's right, we're looking for political responsibility, for many ministers, I won't name them, we're colleagues here in the Parliament. We've been looking for their shifts here as ministers. Why? Because there's been an apparent thieving in their repositories in companies, you know how you've been acting as ministers yourself? So what do I have to do with it? I'm the minister, so it's the board of directors, they're supposed to be watching, not me. And the minister's name there was nothing to anyone and the government's name there was nothing. So people dear, let's start acting logically. This law is not favourable to the government because it assumes greater responsibility, the government proposes a law that accepts responsibility. It's the same with the assistant ministers and directors of the administration. You say they were professional people, so when they were so professional, how did they destroy the state like this? So what would that state look like if they weren't professional? The minister's assistant works according to the minister's instructions. He's running government policy. He's running a government policy. The government responds to the citizens, primarily to this Parliament, and to the parliamentary majority as well as to you as a parliamentary minority, it must suit you, because you have been elected, and someone has chosen you. But it also suits the citizens. Therefore, he must have the right to appoint people, associates, the closest associates with whom he will implement a particular policy. What policy? Well, the one who won most of the election, the one the citizens want, the one that they want. Well, otherwise, citizens would have chosen one policy, and those of your experts who have ruined would have spent and obstructed that new policy. Well, listen, it'd be really goofy. So let's not go at logical suggestions seriously. Let us understand that this is the law that the Government assumes responsibility, accept control of this government, be critical of it when it is necessary and if necessary. If it is seen that these companies are not doing well, it means that the government has appointed the wrong people, let's call on them for this right, you have the right to do so as an opposition, but don't object to the government for wanting to choose its associates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2117	Thank you very much, dear President-in-Office of the Parliament. On your exhibit, we have one correction to the incorrect quote and three replicas. Let's go with the correction. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker is correcting the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2118	Thank you very much, Vice President. I think the vice president of this House, Col. Stazic, has said one great insult to civil servants. A colleague of Stazic and you and your party and the president of your party and the president of the state and the President of the Parliament these days were full of mouths about how the negotiations on Croatia's accession to the EU have been completed. These directors who spit so highly in this House were the bearers of this process. I'm sorry, too. Mr. Stazic said the principals ruined this country. I say that's not true, but that these people have done their job very well and very well. Finally, as far as the finance ministry is concerned, counterpart Linic made a clear statement about the situation he found at the finance ministry, and I think it is in the biggest contrast to what you said. Every grain has a weed, but I don't think it's fair to insult honest and hardworking people, and we can politically argue as much as we want. Just as it is the political right of every political party to arrange something as it wishes, and the other is to oppose it if it does not feel good.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2119	Thank you very much. The replica was reported by a respected representative, Petar Cobankovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2120	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, Deputy Minister. My replica goes to the esteemed vice president of this House, and I'd like to say that he would say standardly with his brilliant and sharp vocabulary and tongue to force some things through. Dear friends, unfortunately that's not how it works anymore. You must be aware that this law is the essence of turning the wheel backwards. I'm not going to say that we were ideal, but what we were doing was something that went on and on and on and on and on, and now you want to get it back. Why do you want to go back? Well, that's clear, you need to fill up the syncs, you need to take care of your people and set them up. Now the problem isn't in those who meet the conditions the problem isn't in those who can pass the tender procedure but unfortunately, I'm telling you that the open problem is for those who don't meet the conditions and who can't go through it. A similar situation is with the renaming of directors as assistants because people who could be elected to the director's post also had to have some professional training, from certain years of internships and everything else. The appointment of an official in such places may result in people who do not have to have adequate professional equipment. And that is the essence and you want to meet the needs of your people in this way and thus satisfy their interests. And the government is also responsible and no one wants to run away from responsibility and that the election of members of the Supervisory Board is a competition, so it doesn't mean that the government has taken off its responsibility. My dear friend, they've been named by the government. But she named it in a way that she called through public procedure and got far greater competition from which she chose which one could adequately do the job.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2121	Thank you very much. For the replicated Vice-President of Parliament Nenad Stazic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2122	You say we're taking the wheel back. What was the situation? Ideal for companies owned by the Republic of Croatia. Far from it, far from it. Who responded politically? No one. Now we want someone to answer, and you call it turning the wheels back.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2123	My fellow MPs, keep your peace. There's no need.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2124	You call it turning the wheel back. Clearly expressed will to know who answers, who is politically responsible for any appointment. Will he name him in a public competition, will he appoint him as his discretionary decision? It's his thing. He, as a minister, as a member of the government and government as a whole, is responsible for his work, answers. And when something happens in the vault, the minister flies. When it happened, you know what we agreed here that we wouldn't talk about the past. I said that by explaining why we don't ask the government questions on the current morning. We don't want to talk about the past, but at the time of Racan's government, Health Minister Ana Samljenic Rukavina left because there was a mistake in her portfolio. She was neither responsible nor she... made the filters or got them, but there was a connection in her vault. She caused political responsibility. We haven't seen political responsibility here in eight years. And now we want her, we want political responsibility. And that's our wish you call it turning the wheels back.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2125	Thank you very much. The next replica on your exhibit has a respected representative, Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2126	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here you are, sir. I'll give you 10 minutes and you'll offer your responsibility. The Croatian Government has this responsibility under both the Constitution and the existing laws and does not need an amendment to this law to be responsible. But you say you need non-transparent and clouded appointment of members of the Supervisory Board in order to be responsible. You're responsible without this law. And what you're offering, you're offering us responsibility, and I'm asking you now, if that responsibility is going to be like the responsibility of the SDP and the HNS in the case of Zagreb and the Zagreb Assembly and I'm asking you who flew away and who was politically responsible and who was in any way responsible for the loss of the 2.5 billion-dollar Zagreb holding company that is known, and what you don't know is that I can't even mention but 2.5 billion certainly. And I ask you who is responsible for this and will you be held accountable here at national and national level on that basis, because thank you very much for that responsibility. And besides, you claim that you also need to politicize the highest rank of government officials because you are responsible for them. I've already said, God forbid us such responsibilities because one day you'll say you're responsible for the entire state administration, so you might come to us with the law to put everyone on the political line without them choosing a public competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2127	Thank you very much. Replicate response, Honorable Vice-President Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2128	Dear colleague Lovrin, you're replicating me, I can't be surprised that you're so active, I thought you retired, you activated your representative's pension. (Laughter)
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2129	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs. Representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2130	The violation of Rule 209 of the Rules of Procedure, because Mr. Representative did not speak about the subject which is before this House, and besides that when man has no argument ad rem, and that is an argument on what is being discussed then goes in the lowest way, and that is the argument ad hominem, so it offends a person personally. He could've talked about this subject, there was a agenda point this morning, he could've replicated it, he could've talked about it, I could've answered it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2131	I didn't interrupt you, I don't think the pensioner is an insult or a pensioner is an insult, it's a logical condition for every man who works. ... Thank you very much. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We have another breach of the Rules of Procedure, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2132	I'm sorry, but I think my colleague hurt Article 209. The Rules of Procedure may not, in the future, correct the incorrect statement, except in the case of basic exposure, in particular when it corresponds to the chair. Thank you very much. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2133	You haven't seen your colleague. It was a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Dear MPs, it's very important that you say that citizens or journalists hear, so let's let you answer the phone, so if you get the word you're saying, we're going to be tolerated because each of you is building your own picture, no matter what side you're on. Thank you very much. We're going to the next line. Honorable representative Branko Bacic has a replica on the fundamental presentation of Vice-President Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2134	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So the Vice-President of the Parliament again spoke in the same way about how in this way, not specifically by selecting certain members of the company, more responsibility is being established by the government. In fact, I said that earlier, this is not true because regardless of how the government has approached the selection of members of the boards of directors of public companies, its responsibility does not absolutely increase or decrease. So that's not true, and that's where I replicate it. The other thing is, you said this government would be crazy if you kept the members of the supervisory board she inherited from the former government. This government may change those members by virtue of the Company Act whenever it wishes, as provided for by the law. Therefore, no one asks that you do not change the law to keep the members appointed by the basis of the competition. The government can do so through its congregations, which are ministers, change the members of the supervisory board, and call a tender for new members. This is what we say and what Mr. Cobankovic said earlier, which is that the competition establishes a number of people who meet the requirements, often it must be competent people who can do this job and with this broader spectrum, the government has a wider choice and this job is accessible to everyone, not only to those who are close or closer to the government. And third thing I want to tell you, I remember what you brought out here tonight, remember you. In fact, this system was also during the HDZ governments, and it was during the government of the Ivica Racan and with all due respect to Mrs. Ana... Rukavina was still cases in the ministries and ministers that were responsible for public and majority-owned enterprises in which irregularities and illegalities took place, so they did not resign and suffer political consequences. [[You don't understand.]] That's why I'm warning you to remember this debate of yours very well tonight. God forbid, there may be similar cases in the next term, so we will see how much such responsibility will indeed be achieved through the work of these ministers and these ministries.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2135	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative, vice president of the House Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2136	Dear colleague, you're saying that a public tender would get a wider circle of people potential, qualified enough to be members of the Supervisory Board. Perhaps, but the key word here is trust, trust that the government must give these people that they will really oversee the work of these administrations and respond. If there is no trust in them they can be professional I don't know how, can be professional and dishonest, and who will answer? Government. Those dishonests can be like this. Of course, honesty with expertise doesn't have to have anything to do with it, but here is a key word of trust. Whoever answers has the right to name the one whose work is right. And he can't have a criteria for some kind of public tender. Why, because someone else is going to tell him look, I have better conditions than the one you chose, and I've only competed I won't write it to you because I mean stealing there, I have excellent conditions and now you have to name me as Government. Well, you won't see that. You want one transparency, you want one who appoints that's why he's responsible for his appointment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2137	Thank you very much. We have exhausted the replicas, corrections of the incorrect allegations, violations of the Rules of Procedure, so we could move on to the next debate, which was reported by the respected representative Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2138	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. What you gentlemen are on the left is indefensible. Even if he came... from your ranks who moved to this side he can't defend. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] With us in a philosophical theological theological debate where you push it, it can sort of take another two hours. But in the eyes and eyes of the Croatian public, you cannot defend this the same way as all of us could not defend or defend the privileges of MPs in terms of pensions etc. And you wanted to tell the Croatian people through pensions by abolishing this, we're honest, and now, through this provision and through this law, you're politicizing the state, you're creating a political retrograde process, you're pushing behind the 1990s, and maybe there was an excuse because there was a war. These furniture received 60, 70% in Croatian voting numbers, and you didn't get that much to sort of, you're legal. Yeah, but you got a quarter of the vote. It used to be 60 or 70%. I don't know exactly, don't come after me for a number, but you know what I'm talking about. So, you're bringing back the rule of law, you're deregulating and you're kind of bringing the rule of law back to all the criteria that I wouldn't be explaining here in the last 10 minutes. So I wouldn't go into that philosophical, theological, nihilistic debate. The bottom line is that you gentlemen are on this side and under your pressure and under the pressure of the Croatian public, Croatian people and all Croatian citizens, of course we will not say anything like that but we will be able. We don't want politicians, politicians need out of boards. Policy must not be dictated by the management of kindergartens etc. The arguments were both made by the Croatian public and such strong and negative phenomena that took place in many of the companies you speak of and I agree with them have taught us to change the system of governance of these state-owned companies and these other companies. And this government, the previous government tried and went through public tenders. And that's a step forward. Croatia should be a millimeter better today than it was yesterday, and tomorrow gentlemen should be one millimeter better than today. You're going a mile back, you're taking the Croatian rule of law back a mile. You have deceived the Croatian people. It doesn't have any dilemma. You have translated the Croatian people through the water. This is not what the Croatian people voted for, because the Croatian people voted that the rule of law goes forward in this sense in which they say. So imagine, gentlemen, how many young people there are, educated, capable of 330,000 unemployed, etc., broken-down companies. Why not give them a chance to get a job and work and get 100 kuna through a public tender? And you know how many fights there are in polling stations to get 100, 200 kuna a day. So, you've politicized the state not only through this issue, but I don't want to be involved much now in the matter of ministries, assistants. In America, when the furniture changes, 13000 people change to 300 million people, and so far in Croatia, 220 people have changed to 4 and a half million people, and now, according to your statements, 5 hundred people and political directly by those hard politicians. So in Croatia 5 hundred on 4 and a half million, in America 13000 on 300 million, and that means I wrote down here a little quickly I calculated it like this. This means that in Croatia, at 2307 residents, a politician, and in America, at 9,000 politicians. You understand? This means that the same criterion is that in America there should be 30,000 changing politicians in Croatia or something like that. That's where you push this country, that's where you're going. Mladen Delic would say, "People, is that possible?" and it is possible, gentlemen. You're changing your beliefs, and you're not changing your beliefs, but you're changing your policies after you've won the election. You told the people to give us power. No, we have some kind of program. You didn't even tell him who it was. Now this is your program, and now you can see what the people have chosen. And it's easy, you can't change the consciousness of the Croatian people here in some way, if you've changed your uniforms. You've changed red ties. You were always in red. Where are your red ties? So I'd kind of show by that there's a continuity of thought compared to what you said 15 days ago. I would at least have kept those red ties in your place, if even pro-forme and aesthetically going like some continuity of politics exists. Because it seems to me that the black legion on the right is as black as it is black. So, nothing. I apologize for this expression, but I mean this is indisputable against the European Union, against European values. So, everything you said in the European Union campaign and your top officials, they didn't say it out of conviction. But that's because it's in now. I believe this Croatian public will condemn this retrograde process and should have improved the system and I believe. Because if I have more, and I do, I can see that I may have another 30 seconds. Mrs. Anticevic, you're saying that in the social enterprises of the administrative council in the private companies of the administrative council, they did this or that. People are all the same either in social enterprises or in private or in parties. We're all about average people. Who was in the Governing Council of the Rijeka Bank when over $100 million was stolen? Who was in the board of directors of Victor Lentz when 40 million dollars were stolen? Who were the ministers who gave 40 million dollars? Who is in the board of Credo Banks in Split and whose policy option is that? And I know, but I'm not gonna tell her here. Whose policy option is that? That's right, where 500 million kunas were stolen. And then those 10 million euros from the INA if it's stolen comes to you as a toothpick. There's 500 million kuna stolen here at Credo Bank, so you're asking whose policy option it is. So people are if we're gonna admit we're all about the same and red under the skin. This is a system change. You're just returning that system that generated such bad and harmful phenomena. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2139	Thank you very much. Too difficult words, neither too difficult qualifications solve problems nor citizens nor us in the Parliament. Better arguments than verbal aggression. Much better. For the correction of the incorrect quote on the presentation of the respected representative, the respected representative Marin Jurjevic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2140	Thank you. This indeed I agree with Duja was neither philosophy nor theology, this was dujology, and I am correcting Mr. Marasovic's quote, "You have deceived the Croatian people." No Duje Croatian people were deceived by those who sang to him one thing, and they ripped off his skin, robbed him, humiliated him, destroyed him, led him to the brink of breaking into the disaster of the economic endurance of the moral breakdown, and therefore they were paid the bill in the light of the results that you received neatly in the elections. Otherwise, the correction of the incorrect quote cannot be answered by replication.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2141	Thank you very much. We're done with the corrections of an incorrect allegation. In 10 minutes, a respected representative, Josip Kregar, applied for the debate on the subject. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2142	Ladies and gentlemen, the president of the session. I've had a lot of patience to listen to this debate that has often not been related to the subject of the debate and I don't mean to call on the Rules of Procedure, all expecting that there will actually be a debate and that we will see what context in which we decide and what it really is. I may have it wrong, but the way I see the situation where we live is a deep economic not recession but a crisis. It was not created on December 4th, it was delayed and often covered up, but now comes to collect everything it gives away. I may not see the reality completely, but I read a newspaper that may be misrepresented, but that describes scandals that concern exactly public companies, state-owned companies from Djakova to Split, which are fairly evident from serious crime. I'm reading exactly the text that says why the representatives stayed in the cattle, forgive the MPs and the MPs, that's our concern. I testify to one general loss of trust that exists in the elected representatives. This trust did not disappear now through Christmas, it exists and should be held accountable in this context. That's what I'm saying because, first of all, the urgency of this law has been discussed here. This law doesn't make it urgent, it's extremely necessary and hasty. It's about the fact that the government was put into a situation where some people said that everything that was written in the laws was good, and that others, I think the vast majority, think that there are huge discriminations between what was written and what was done in practice. And that's another element of this debate, then. The European Union has encouraged Croatia to make the necessary changes, reforms and in the political system, as well as in this respect. But first of all, she approached Croatia differently than other candidates by assessing reality and reality, not just what it says in the law. What the law states in this respect is that the appointment of supervisory and management committees is quite different from practice. No, I won't call for opinions, public opinion or law, I am, and there's a lot of debate about politicisation and depoliticalism, and I would also do one analysis written and establish that out of the hundred and seventy of such political or professional, actually professional appointments were followed by political appointments. But to return to urgency and that element. The government, many think, not only does this have to go to a rush procedure but it's late in our expectations, and any delay actually means a violation of authority, agreeing that it's as good as it is, and I think the people think it's not as good as it is. That is why I will push for this proposal to be accepted because the government must have instruments that will respond to the moves of the moment, the economic, the political, the psychological in which it is located. To deny it to the government by argument as I have heard actually means in an indirect way to question trust... I think it also has an important impact on the way we vote in this House. [[The speaker doesn't understand because he doesn't speak in a microphone.]] And one more thing I'm going to add... These amendments to the law are necessary, but not enough. [[The speaker doesn't understand because he doesn't speak in a microphone.]] I expect the government and the ministry to work to realize those intensities that existed, the intentions that existed in creating even the first draft of this law, which were actually aimed at restoring the credibility of politicians and politics as a process. So please shorten the debate and vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2143	Thank you very much. Your Honor, we have two replicas reported on your exhibit. The first for replicas came from respected representative Josip Salapic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2144	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow MP and Professor We both come from the same institution from different cities. What is the point of this proposed law is that it is a step backwards for Croatia. Many universities, not our Legal but Economical, have given candidates the opportunity to further improve and educate corporate governance so that they can be professional candidates for the supervisory boards' competition. In these years and a few days, it turned out to be good. We do not have any bad public experience after the election of members of the Supervisory Board to show that these members do not work professionally and responsibly. So here you have suggested yourself that you do an analysis of what it is, you will do it, and here I promise you that we as an opposition in the Croatian Parliament after you amend this law because you have enough hands to do it, make an analysis to see what are the people that the Government of Zoran Milanovic will appoint to these supervisory committees. Is this about politics or is it about expertise? I think that's the fairest thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2145	Thank you very much. The replica was also reported by a respected representative of the twilight Đurdjica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2146	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Representative, since you were also a member of the City of Zagreb Assembly, so I ask you nicely, I see that none of your representatives or Mr. Stazić, nor does anyone want to answer the question I asked, which was asked by my colleague Lovrin, but so do I. Can you explain to me the Zagreb Holding? Explain to me how that, not so it is an absolute parallel to this law, in the same way you are running Zagreb Holding as you propose to this Law, state and other companies, we see what the results are. If you answer, you were a congregation representative, you were very responsible at the time. As we can see, Zagreb is turned really black with huge minuses, the price of everything from gas to communals goes up, people no longer know how much it will cost to transport, whether you as a congregation representative and as a professor respected at the university asked if it was good, who would answer and how responsible I am as a congregation representative for making these decisions, especially in holding, in which over 10 years the SDP has been leading the main word.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2147	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2148	His proposal is not bad, he has the full right to establish, analyse the result of the newly elected boards of directors and supervisors who came to the administrations. But there's one element I'd like to comment on in his presentation. I remember these courses for members of the supervisory and management boards, I remember because Mr. Hrvoje Vojković and Mr. Matkovic praised me for having been excellently tested and were on... I remember their fate wasn't the fate of a professional on boards or management where they were, but quite a political decision. Mrs. Sumrak, I would like to refer you to this, which your HDZ colleagues from the City of Zagreb have to take a look at the reports and mandatory instructions given by the Supervisory Board of Management. When you look at it, then you can criticize me because you'll notice that we've been very well and persistently influencing management to avoid the worst possible scenario. And which is why I can make it quite clear. Holding was brought into this financial situation because of the demagogue city government policy that neither I nor Professor Smocic, who was also a member of the supervisory board or any of those who criticised the results. As you know, we are in the congregation, and even from your party for your conduct, all we get is praise and not lust.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2149	Thank you very much for your replicas. My replica to all of you Zagreb will remain a white city and do not touch it nicely please. Representative Boro Grubisic has applied for a debate on the subject. Ten minutes is yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2150	Let me speak, Mr. President. There were here words of responsibility most, of depoliticalisation, of the professionalization of boards of directors, of administration, but it is simply impossible in any political set of powers, so what is now proposed in this legislative proposal is actually not a shift from millimeter back, but it is a return in time from 2000 to 2004. It's completely identical. When it is said that any of the boards of directors and supervisory boards, as counterpart Stazic said, should have been responsible, and no one answered, so now the government's decisions appointed in the supervisory committees will also be responsible, they will not actually be responsible, because there are no tools, there are no arguments that would determine and sanction that responsibility. They say the only choices are those that evaluate the work and management and supervisory committees that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has set out to manage state-owned companies on its behalf, so here are the units of local self-government where, again, representative bodies are interesting to have the representative body, city council, city council or municipal council decide on managers in companies they are founders and run. It is true that we remember the time when by the Government of the Republic of Croatia directive a man such as Superman was appointed to 28 supervisory committees, a capable man, flies everywhere, as Batman arrives, manages companies, oversees, later reduces something, one was in 14 supervisory committees, as it is possible that someone oversees the work of 14 state-owned companies or companies in which the Croatian state has most of the ownership stakes, it is physically impossible. Besides being in the Government of the Republic of Croatia Minister or I don't know what. These were the times when and when those actions we all know about were carried out in Viktor Lenc and Split Bank, when pre-prepared actions were carried out in connection with the sale of 25+1 shares, said one representative that it was 26%, 25%+1 shares, but well that's the former representative, that's 26% of the shares. But, well, he's gone, so we won't mention him. It's better if he's not here. Therefore, if measure 6 is in Chapter 23, which Croatia is in negotiations with the European Union and it is related to preventing conflicts of interest, in order to make a move in this segment, one shift is made precisely in terms of depoliticalisation in the selection of supervisory committees, in the selection of administrations, it is now actually delegated. I don't want to talk about whether the European Union or the Commission will pay attention to this bill, maybe they will, maybe they won't, but that there is a right as the chairman of those who won the elections to name and this is what it says here at any time. Very hasty or very often variable category... so I fail to go from the other and says it can at any time. That's exactly what it says. He can do it any minute. This shall be proposed by the members of the Management Authorities and Supervisory Boards on the basis of expertise and accountability. I also wanted to look back at these seven-day courses that attended some in the tipuric arrangement at the Faculty of Economics or dislocated in Slavonski Brod or I don't know where in Đura Đakovic courses for members of the supervisory boards. Look, in seven days, a man learns and gets an excellent grade to be a member of a company's supervisory board that's about to fail in six months. And he was educated, educated as a board member. He even has a degree. What's this about? It was a fog sale and today it's a fog sale. Financial engineering of certain circles. I would suggest because I am not an adviser especially to the Kukuriku coalition or this one who gives to whom coalitions that they could hold this public tender, so keep the institution a public tender for the election, appointing members of the Supervisory Board. It is that something may be a slower procedure and then it has an appeal part and I don't know what it is either, but they could also appoint this Institute of Public Competition for the election of the Supervisory Board people they think are professional and responsible for. And who was it that determined the expertise and responsibility and those chosen as former governments in the supervisory committees, so through a public tender? Who defended it with the HDZ coalition, the HSS, and I don't know who everyone doesn't have to choose professional and responsible in a public competition. So we know how the contests go. Well, every competition knows just needs a picture and says it's for him. Even if he passed a course so excellent this seventh day for a board member then he has everything... to be a member of the Supervisory Board. No one has defended the fulfillment of measure 6 and this Kukurik coalition from carrying out the same thing in this way. As a matter of fact, I'd say spilling from hollow to empty. One of them did it this way, the other one did it through a public tender and it's actually all the same. That's why the club here's colleague spoke on behalf of the Vinkovic Club, and I haven't even looked back on local self-government yet, but I have two words to say. It is interesting how the Government of the Republic of Croatia delegates MPs to the Supervisory Boards that is still a Stalinistic Terminology, so you delegates to supervisory committees across state public companies and does not actually see indirect trust in the Croatian Parliament and has confidence in the city councils. So, the government will appoint says here by saying supervisory committees in public enterprises. And when it comes to the Komunalac in Slavonski Brod, then the city council can, neither the mayor nor the Djakova in what I don't know about Winkovic's company you have there. Here, therefore, in the Parliament of the Republic of Croatia there is no faith that does not say it with a saying here, but it stems from what it says, it indirectly says. Great, in the representative bodies of cities and municipalities you have confidence, and in the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia you have no confidence, because he is the representative body of this state in which you have the majority in which you can decide whatever you want. And as Mr. Stazic said, you won, so you can do whatever you want. But there will also be a debate on people you will delegate or degut where you need to go to supervisory committees and HEP and Croatian forests, etc. to see the expertise and responsibility and résumé of persons who are delegated to the supervisory authority. I think I will personally be restrained on this proposal because it actually brings nothing new, it is even two steps back, but the thing has to be solved as Kregar said quite quickly, the situation is what it is, so here's what it is to give the rulings to name professional and responsible persons as they say at any moment, so be it for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2151	Thank you very much. We have registered one replica of colleagues from the same club, the distinguished representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2152	Thank you. Here, Mr. Grubish, let me look around for a second. One question for you. Here on the side of HDZ, we heard that such a bill is a political pamphlet that it is clouding the public's eyes that the entanglement of new political-like personnel from its own party, while only on the part of the SDP has heard that companies conduct politics and that policy has changed that it has to change precisely in companies. Regardless of the model whether it's a seven-day course or a pro-formal public tender or a direct choice where responsibility will be assumed directly by the Government, do you believe? Personally, I'm not optimistic that there's really going to be a better work of these companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2153	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2154	Well, just like my chairman said at the moment, who was it? No one. And who will answer in the future? Nobody again. My dear colleague from my club, clearly, may say some future election and no one else. In fact, there's no other responsibility, and there's no responsibility. And it's a tragedy that there's no such thing as how I've already said I repeat any tools, instruments or sanctions prescribed or even in this legislative proposal if it's not right to answer. There's no instrument, there's no tool for responsibility. And Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic talked about responsibility 16 times, and she's gone. Responsibility, but not Ingrid, Ingrid's here.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2155	That concludes the debate on this law. Finally, Minister Arsen Bauk called. Five minutes on behalf of the club. Did you fill out the application? Save the paper. You'd better stick to the Rules of Procedure than save paper and report a hearing on time. Come on, five minutes on behalf of the club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2156	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, even though this application paper has been rounded up on behalf of the club and the final word on behalf of the club, it doesn't say that there must be two papers anywhere. The HDSSB will not support this law for the reasons mentioned above. There's been a lot of words in this debate, so I'd say even fears. It is quite clear to me and it should be practical and political thresholds in the Republic of Croatia that after the elections all those who came through the political path of preparing their bags, I don't mean those black bags full of foreign exchanges, money stolen, etc. but simply prepare their own affairs, make their mandates available to those who have been given the term of office of citizens to lead this state or local self-government or regional self-government in the next term. I'll just repeat, since here's Mr. Kregar said he supports the urgency of passing this law, the law is indeed an urgent condition in the state and the situation in all companies and companies in which the majority owner of the Republic of Croatia is not well but is disastrous. This is also witnessed by the daily increase in the prices of all possible services heading towards the citizens. I'm not just thinking about fuel, and soon it's going to be gas, and soon there's going to be electricity, etc., etc. But I remind you that these citizens may have shown the most credible in this referendum what they think of Croatian politics and political elites. And anyone can interpret it in a variety of ways, but this was the weakest response ever to any elections or any referendum in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, it is not the voters' lists that are wrong, but rather the Croatian policy that led to this only possible solution. But speaking about the European Union, the European Commission has just wanted to direct the development of corporate law as part of the Union's acquis. Winters group of legal experts headed by... The Winters, which established the modern framework of company law or company rights in the European Union, gave concrete recommendations on certain issues. [[You don't understand.]] The maximum number of standards provided for in the recommendation is aimed at creating an appropriate profile of the director and management, forming them into three elements: competence in the performance of administrative and supervisory functions, loyalty to the company and third, independence in the performance of the function. This is the basis for managing one company and one company. This law, the final word, cannot be accepted and HDSSB will not accept it for another reason, which is that the system of responsibility for governance, and responsibility has been a lot of words, must be equal at all levels. If the Executive Authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Parliament appointed it, then that executive authority if it appoints both administrations and supervisory committees here, it must also be possible for units of local self-government and regional self-government, because the mayors and mayors are no sheriffs, no gunmen, Wyatt Earpov, Doc Holiday who was not sheriff in the Wild West but participated in that account at O.K. Coral. Simply this system must apply to everything equally, both local self-government and the Republic of Croatia. To all those who do not believe in it I recommend that they go to the local elections and win the 50% +1 vote, not on the list, but on their name and last name. And it will be bad if this law is the beginning of something that has long been announced, and it is a reduction of powers and an end to the direct election of local leaders. It is not a road to the European Union, it is a road back to the Balkans. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2157	Thank you. Finally, I now give my word to the Minister of Administration, Mr. Arsen Bauk.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2158	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and fellow MPs. Thank you for the discussion. I suggest you accept our bill. I would like to look back at two more things that were mentioned in the debate, so this law was not our ambition to redefine or in any way affect future relations between the executive authority and the representative bodies of the units of local self-government. It's one topic that requires quite a wide discussion and I believe the political consensus, but in any case it was not the subject nor the intention of this bill to amend the law. And a second answer, therefore, to Mr Vuljanić, representative of the Labourist who asked about the criteria. The government will set out the criteria set out in this Regulation which, because public tenders are not being conducted, is being put out of force and I believe that they will not be below what is now being done. In any case, there will be stronger criteria than in the Company Act. Here were two answers I should've given. All the other issues that have been touched in this debate, starting with the system of state administration, the relations of state secretary-helpers will be time to discuss them in more detail, but I say it is not the subject of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2159	Correction of an incorrect quote, colleague Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2160	I must correct the esteemed, as the Prime Minister said, because we are all elected to the lists regarding the non-interference in the authority of the local self-government leader. Although the previous law was extremely bad, I do not defend that law, but here in Article 2(2) is said, therefore, this is the new bill: In the current paragraph 3 that becomes paragraph 2 behind the word: the representative body of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government remains a representative body, instead of the score, the point is placed and the words are deleted on the basis of the previous competition. So it remains that the representative body this time in a very bad way will name something that is not in his jurisdiction. In the same way, the Assembly should appoint all members and administrations of all companies.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2161	Time, and the other you haven't corrected anything from what the minister said here. But you haven't corrected any of his allegations, you've given your opinion again. So stick to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2162	It's not an opinion. This is what the law says.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2163	Oh, yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2164	That's what the law says.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2165	What it says in the law was defended by the minister. You haven't fixed anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2166	Mr. Minister said that...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2167	Let's not pollemize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2168	... does not interfere with the relationship between the mayor and the representative body. The demand is very much in the way. Absolutely.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2169	Thank you. We'll skip points 3 and 4 because they don't have the conditions to discuss them. We didn't get a report from the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2170	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law amending the law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 23. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get involved and vote. Thank you. I find that most of the votes 75 for, 17 against and 2 abstentions have been passed a law amending the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2171	We'll skip points 3 and 4 because they don't have the conditions to discuss them. We didn't get a report from the board. I suggest we unite the debate on points 5 and 6. So, about point 5. Final draft law amending the Law on the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 24th and 6th. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian Financial Services Control Agency, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 19. Is there one of the MPs who would object to a united debate? If there isn't, then I'm saying we've united the debate. The proposer of these laws is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received a proposal for action in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted on two legislative proposals by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received their reports at the session. I ask if the proposaler's representative would like to further explain the proposal. Yeah. Mr. Boris Lalovec, Deputy Minister of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2172	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. In front of you is the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks with the Final Proposal of the Law. In short, the Ministry of Finance actually proposes to change the composition of the Agency's administration where the new members would actually be the first Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to be the President of the Administration, the Minister of Finance, the Deputy Chairman of the Board of Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament as a member of the Board of Directors, and the Chairman of the Committee for the Economy of the Croatian Parliament as a member of the Board of Directors. So very, the main objective was to rationalise the business of the administration so that we believe that there are no major changes to the previous law other than the rationalisation of the members of the administration. ... Also, the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Croatian Financial Services Control Agency with the Final Proposal of the Law. [[/Intruder Stazic, you don't understand.]] This law proposes a new way to regulate the organisation, the internal structure of the Agency for the purpose of its effective functioning. Other changes are of nomotechnical nature. The proposal does not affect the independence of the Agency's work or its work so far. The Agency is proposed to establish a administrative council consisting of five members, one of which is president and who is going to propose a proposal by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to appoint and resolve the Croatian Parliament. The administrative board would have the power to decide from the Agency's work and competence. Furthermore, it is proposed to establish the Secretary-General as the Executive Body of the Agency to carry out the Agency’s management, i.e. represent the Agency towards third parties and manage its internal work. It is proposed to appoint and resolve the Administrative Council as the Secretary-General. The Secretary-General shall be appointed to the term of office of six years and may be re-appointed. Furthermore, this law aligns the expression with the applicable legislative framework governing the financial market and the basis of which the Agency has the power to adopt implementing rules, as well as controls and controls, i.e. the granting and withdrawal of licences, authorisations, licences and consent. We accept all amendments That's all. [[/Intruder Stazic: Is that all?]] Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2173	Okay. Thank you very much. So we've heard that the government accepts the amendments that have been addressed so far. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Yes, my colleague Srdjan Gjurkovic's Finance Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2174	Dear Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its 2nd session held on 24 January 2012 the proposal for a Law amending the Law on the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks with the Final Proposal for Laws submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by act of 19. January. Financial and State Budget Committee of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of its competence as referred to in Article 65. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the law in question as the parent body. In the opening statement as we did in the previous presentation of the Government's representatives, it was presented what is being changed, which means that the first Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, who is in the position of the chairman of the Board of Finance, the chairman of the Committee on Finance and the state budget, is a member of the Board of Directors and the Chairman of the Board of Economy of the Croatian Parliament of Management. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided to propose to the majority of votes 7 for and 4 abstentions to the Croatian Parliament the adoption of the Law amending the law on the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks. Dear Vice President of the Parliament. The second report is related to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. The Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed at the 2nd session held on 24. In January 2012, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia by Act 19. January 2012. Financial and State Budget Committee of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of its competence as referred to in Article 65. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament discussed the law in question as the parent body. In his opening statement, a representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia pointed out that the proposed amendments to the Law on the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency are governed by the new organisation of the Agency in accordance with the law governing the institutions. Accordingly, it is proposed that the Agency has an administrative council consisting of 5 members of which is one president. The President and members of the Management Board of the Agency shall appoint and resolve the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The Agency shall be represented by the Secretary-General of the Agency who shall organise the work and operations of the Agency and shall appoint and resolve the Agency's Administrative Board after the public tender has been carried out. The term of office is six years with the possibility of reelection. In addition to Article 4 of the final draft of the law, it is prescribed that the Agency is obliged to pay an surplus of revenue over expenditure at the end of the financial year to the state budget. The Committee discussed the following points: the opinion was made that, in accordance with the provisions of Article 1 of the final proposal of the law, candidates for president and members of the Management Board should be proposed as soon as possible to the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency as possible. The debate further noted the need for the final draft of the law in paragraph 3 to specify that the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency shall, in its jurisdiction, have in addition to the authorisation, authorisation and consent granted under the specific rules of law and their confiscation where their users do not comply with the legal provisions. The Committee took the view that there was no need to submit an amendment to Article 3(3) of the final draft of the law, as the representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia informed the members of the Committee that the Committee on the Legislatives of the Croatian Parliament had already submitted an amendment to be supported by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The opinion was also expressed that the provisions of Article 15 of the applicable law are more precisely regulated by the Agency's powers and the need to amend in a proposed manner is questionable. After the debate was held, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament decided by majority of votes, 7 votes in favour and 4 votes against proposing to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2175	I would like to thank the chairman of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs first. On behalf of the SDP club, distinguished representative Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2176	Mr. Vice President, Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will adopt the Act amending the Law on the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks because it is only about the harmonisation of a new, new alignment of the DAB administration with the Government Act, i.e. the reduction of management members from 6 to 4. As regards the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, the SDP Club will also support these amendments because they are only relevant in two senses. The first amendment is defined in Article 2 where the function of the management of the HANFA is divided and introduces the function of the Secretary-General of the Agency in such a way that, at the moment, if we only read it, it seems to be a technical change, but it also has a qualitative effect. In fact, the separation of HANFA's basic tasks to be carried out by HANFA's Administrative Council from the HANFA's organization and business is actually made possible by better quality work, i.e. the supervision that this agency needs to carry out over certain financial institutions. Operational affairs are therefore entrusted to the Secretary-General and thus actually enables the president and the entire board of directors to carry out their basic tasks in a better way. Article 15 is amended as well as the very reasons for the more clearly defined in this way, i.e. not all those supervisory tasks already involved, or defined by specific laws, are considered. Namely, when HANFA was founded then it was actually a joint supervision of all non-banking financial intermediaries, stock exchanges, regulated public markets, authorised companies, issuers of securities, brokers, investment advisers, institutional investors, central depositary agencies, investment, private investment and pension funds management companies, the Homeland War Fund and members of their families, the Pension Fund, the Central Insurance and Reassurance Register, the Association of Representatives and Intermediation in the Insurance of Legal Persons. Then legal persons who deal with Leasing and factoring activities, and unless that factoring is carried out by a bank, i.e. leasing within their registered activity. By harmonising these areas, therefore, all that I have listed with EU legislation is the detailed regulatory supervision carried out by an authorised agency, in this case by HANFA, and we are assessing that an amendment to Article 15 has been proposed because it lists the areas of supervision and points to specific laws which then define all the transactions that HANFA in a particular segment of supervision should be done. Since, of all the areas listed above, the HANFA control area has been left out of a factor that is not legally regulated in Croatia, we are also submitting an amendment to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and we also refer to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate this area as soon as possible, i.e. adopt a special law so that the HANFA and these operations can be carried out. At this point in time, the HANFA around these jobs actually only leads to business records statistics, i.e. companies dealing with factoring, and we think that this area should be regulated legally as well as these other areas. In this regard, we have also submitted an amendment to Article 3 where we would add that it also controls legal persons engaged in factoring activities unless they are carried out by banks within their registered activities. It's the formula she's been before. And we also suggest that the Croatian Parliament accept the next conclusion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to refer to the Croatian Parliament for discussion and adoption of the factoring law with the reasons I said in the presentation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2177	I thank my colleague Zgrebec. I now urge my colleague, Srdjan Gjurkovic, to present his debate on behalf of the HNS Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2178	Dear Vice President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party, Liberal Democrats, will support both laws. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency is clearly coordinated with the organisation of the Agency with the regular organisation of the agencies and in particular the decision-making of the Agency's competence and part-rounding. What is crucial is not changing the essence, changing efficiency and efficiency, or changing the structure that is needed as in these other laws that we have so far on the agenda. All this together in the function of increasing efficiency in the core objective of the Agency, which is to promote and preserve the stability of the financial system and to monitor the legality and business of financial entities. As regards the second Act, it is clear that the Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks is the first specialised financial institution, and the second one is one of our mechanisms for protecting the stability of the Croatian Banking System and so far it has been. Its timely reactions give both a positive attitude and a positive effect on citizens in trust in the banking system but trust in the state of Croatia. The Agency shall, in accordance with its roles, play two basic roles, i.e. functions, ensuring the savings roles of banks and savings banks in order to pay these roles in the event of bank bankruptcy, the Agency shall ensure, instead of banks and savings banks, the role of citizens and legal persons, and the second is to implement the consequences of bank resolution and bank restructuring. Therefore, the implementation of this new structure under the proposed law will receive both efficiency and efficiency and the reduction of management members from 6 to 4 faster and more efficient work and the HNS supports these two laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2179	Thank you. The HDSSB club agreed that the time for discussion would be shared by two counterparts Drazen Djurovic and Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2180	Here, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Prime Minister, gentlemen. HANFA is a state agency that has since 1. 1. In 2006, he has a job over the entire non-banking sector, oversees investment pension funds,... insurance, pension insurance companies, Leasing houses and monitors factoring. It also cooperates in preventing money laundering, protecting consumers, launching criminal and criminal charges in violation of the law in the area of its powers. What we asked ourselves about this bill of law, what the hell is this bill? HANFA is one institution that worked well, has done its job well,... so far and why and what to change at all. She made a few strong moves as a state agency, sometimes even stronger than the government was ready on the financial market, she pulled some strong players' ears and we don't see the elements why now, why one institution has to be well-organized, and it has to go into reconstruction after just one term, why it has to change over and over again. And now what's changing? Therefore, according to the current Act, the Agency had an administration appointed by the Croatian Parliament of 5 members of which one president, according to the proposal to amend the Act, by the Administrative Board, also five-members with the President, and this administrative council therefore resolves and appoints the Assembly, however, the Agency shall be managed by the Secretary-General of the Agency responsible for the work and operations of the Agency, and shall appoint and resolve the Administrative Council of the Agency. The board of directors is representing the Agency towards the Secretary General. In the light of the proposal for why these amendments are in the first place, it is stated that the internal structure of the Agency is governed in accordance with the Law governing the institutions. In this way one already arranged agency that worked well goes into internal reconstruction, and in an organisational sense is set up under the Law on Institutions. As one said, it is equal to kindergartens, schools, and health institutions. According to this proposal, the Secretary-General of the Agency shall organise and conduct the work and operations of the Agency and all public authorities shall be transferred to the Administrative Board, including the supervisory operations of the surveillance entities and then who it oversees, and who it manages, remains somewhat vague. Furthermore, had it not been for happier intervention of the Committee on Legislatives, which the whole public noticed, but when the bill came, only the proposer had not observed the remaining amended provisions under which the HANFA could no longer issue a ban. So far, HANFA has issued and withdrawn authorisations for approval of consent, licensing and authorisation and, according to the proposal we received from the applicant, it has no longer been able to withdraw those same authorisations of approval, consent and authorisation and authorisation. The Legislative Committee has given an amendment in which it remains. Also, there were several other measures that made this bill that make HANFA work less quality than it would have been under the old proposal. One of them was that the proposal did not provide for a public announcement of the HANFA decisions. The amendment of the Legislative Committee remains that and now a much easier form of publication on the Internet, which is quite a good solution, better than in the National Journal. It is surprising how the legislator is and why it has complicated the structure of HANFA to be restructured to one model that was not needed and on the other hand there have been a number of gaps which have now been corrected by the amendments to this proposal and we are finally wondering what this proposal is. So we've had and we've got an institution that worked well, and it's time for a shift at the administration and it's over. So we see neither reason nor support this proposal at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2181	He will continue his colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2182	If I were to continue exactly, Mr. Chairman, on the final draft of the law amending the Law on the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, I might add here and the sale of banks. Since four members of the administration are proposed, one of which is the first Deputy Prime Minister, the second is Finance Minister, the third is the chairman of the Finance Committee of the Croatian Parliament and the chairman of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament. And given the announced sale or privatisation of the Croatian Post Office, this name should then be added to the state agency for the resolution of banks as well as the privatisation of banks, as such is the intensity and intention according to Mr. Minister of Finance's statement that Croatia's postal bank is likely to be sold because these are all test balloons. Instead of considering in this financial environment about... which would be the Croatian Post Office if all the accounts of the Croatian state of all public enterprises from HEP, Croatian Forests, Croatian Waters and others went through the Croatian Post Office, this is what is considered privatisation and will most likely be done in view of the composition of this new reduced administration in the State Deposit Insurance Agency and Bank Rehabilitation. In fact, it's about the concentration of power, so this administration has been reduced from 7 members to 4 members and it's about the concentration of power in the hands of this one. When we know the composition of the ministries and when we know that there are persons in these ministries from finance to the economy from some commercial banks and in the government of the Republic of Croatia in the government of the Republic of Croatia, then it is understandable that the Croatian Post Bank will end up most likely as a competitor to other commercial banks in the Republic of Croatia. That is why, in addition to this comment, it would have really been said that behind the hills it is only being supervised behind this legislative proposal and my colleague Djurovic will be against this urgent procedure, an urgent legal solution as it says here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2183	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Club, a respected representative of counterpart Ivan Shuker will be debated. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2184	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, it's a very short matter of amending the DAB Act. First, this law does not change because of rationalisation or anything but this law is changing and I think the proposing representative should have said so. It is changed solely because of amendments to the Law establishing the Government. Because even before, the Deputy Prime Minister was in charge of the economy as chairman of the administration, the finance minister was a member of the Committee on Finance and Economy. Therefore, it is simply something that is prescribed but purely because of the record and because of the public it is necessary to say why this law is being amended. But what I'd like to say when it comes to DAB is I'd like to say two things. One is that today when it comes to the privatisation of the Croatian Post Bank, the DAB in the moments when the adequate capital of the Croatian Post Bank with a hybrid tool saved that bank and later the Government with its 550 million recapitalisation led to the fact that the Croatian Post Bank is already a respectable bank and the DAB has also made it clear now that this tragedy has occurred to the savings of the Credo Bank, which means when the state forms an institution and when the state reacts in time. And you remember that the initial financial economic crisis in the 10th month 2008 we changed the decision on guaranteed savings and therefore the DAB, as soon as possible, at the time when I said that accident to Credo Bank's savings, made payment according to the Saving Deposits Insurance Act. And when we talk about amending the HANFA Act, I honestly tell you, it's not clear what the urgency, why the change of one institution, and if a regular institution in the Republic has shown independence in the past six years, then it's the HANFA, where the heads of the HANFAs at no time have allowed any political option to interfere with their business. And so they resented both the left and the right. And now the basic question is, why are we bringing some financial laws to our noses? And to illustrate that to you with only one piece of information, the other day you were there on the left trying to explain why you needed to extend and bring back the Law on SMS taxes, and we spoke with audiblely why you shouldn't. and watch now in moments until President Josipovic has yet to sign the law so that it can be published etc. The finance minister organises a meeting with the biggest operatives and tells them if you invest we'll have the law abolished by 5. Months. Does that not suggest a great indemnity? Doesn't that suggest that we don't have to pass laws overnight that... The government could by its regulation, at the moment until the meeting, appoint the headman of the HANFA and give him certain powers which were given to the management of the HANFA and on the basis of this, he should report to the government and at one point approve that this is the case but would not stop a complete life. Later on, a colleague of Bečić will talk about it and I would not want to take that part away from her, but simply with her ignorance of matter, with no knowledge of the financial market with no knowledge of what HANFA regulates, you have simply frozen life in Croatia. Mr. President, if the SDP colleagues won't listen to their HDZ colleagues, they hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2185	My colleague and colleagues, please let's wake up a parliamentary colleague speaking, let's ensure peace.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2186	I'm trying to say from the position of the profession without the intention of politicizing because I think HANFA is an extremely important institution. And that's how I'm going to try to illustrate to you what countries have done that have far longer and democratic and also as far as the financial market is concerned, transition from us over the past year. Let's say the Americans have since 1 January of this year 400 regulatory new measures to regulate the market that has caused chaos. Because the financial market has caused economic chaos with its downfall. And if you won't arrange that market to the smallest detail, you'll lead to chaos. And just some of the amendments that appeared first of all at a debate by our HDZ colleagues, we didn't want to propose them, but you would have rejected them, so it's better that you suggested them because then you would adopt them, simply suggesting that this topic was very unserious. Also, those who proposed this law should have known that in the European Community there was an amendment to a series of directives aimed at strengthening and stability of the financial system. We should also know and I would like to remind you of this to wait this year to amend the Investment Funds Act. It's all something that regulates HANFA. However, let me tell you from the position of colleagues from the profession and us from the Croatian Democratic Community, which is actually proposed by this law, to which we bring one of the best independent regulatory agencies in this country, with AZTM sure. So we bring it down to organisational form with all due respect to the institutions that I'm going to say, to the organisational form of kindergarten and home to health. We're bringing HANFA down to it. That's true for you, because in the explanation of the government, and also in the explanation that is stated inside you state that you are changing this law to comply with the law on institutions. You can't compare HANFA to such institutions. The secretary-general can't get a post above the HANFA administration so far. But you suggested, ours is to warn that it's not good, if you'll accept that we'll see. Public announcements of HANFA acts are also abolished, deciding on someone's rights and obligations. That's contrary to what we've taken from Eu. To say that it will be published on HANFA's website, and that it will not be published in "The People's Newspaper" is simply not the same. One is these papers from the working bodies that we get on the benches, and the other are acts that we vote and that are published in the People's Newspaper. They have a very large difference in importance, in monitoring, in recording, in archiving, etc. But since these acts that are being published can have a profound impact on the fates of not one but thousands of people. If certain laws are not respected, then I think we should certainly be in order for these acts to be published in the People's Newspaper. And I don't really understand who's bothering the fact that these acts are being published in the People's Newspaper. Also, what is crucial to me is how unprofessional, unprepared, I will not use other words, have approached the amendment of this law is the amendment of Article 15. So, among other things, in the old article 15, everything that HANFA does is taxed, and in this new proposal, the law is generally numbered. Now, if we're talking about transparency, clarity, is there a better proposal for an article describing exactly what the regulatory body is doing or is a better article that you're proposing, which suggests what the HANFA should do. However, the most devastating provision which has been deleted from Article 15 is a provision prohibiting the possibility of withdrawing a licence, i.e. a licence for anti-legislative entities, which directly maintains the criminal and criminal conduct of a part of the non-banking sector, and that is a fact that you cannot escape from. What you are proposing now with the amendment, the amendment came after a debate on the Committee on Finance, following discussion by HDZ members. So look at what provision is attempted, a provision in which they are not punished, in which no permission can be taken from those who do incriminating works. It tried to get through this new law. What kind of message we send to all investors, what message we send to all those who want and at home and who want to come out to invest in Croatia if we do not offer them legal protection. When proposing amendments to this law, did anyone read Article 15 well? No, unfortunately not. And if it hadn't been for the opposition, this would have gone away. It cannot happen that the key things of this law are regulated by amendments because these amendments proposed by clubs and by individuals and by committees regulate the key things of this law. One is, among other things, the one concerning the withdrawal of an activity permit for those engaged in incriminating actions. And these are facts that you can't escape from. You cannot escape because your mouth is full of honesty and stories about honesty, but you are destroying an institution that controls a complete non-banking sector in the Republic of Croatia. And when we talk about taking action, the key thing you had to put in if you went into the amendments to this law, which is factoring and it is being inserted by the amendments but only after the debate. So if it were one intention to improve this system then this would all be proposed by law. Because watch what can happen if the Government and it is certainly a law that I will support to go by emergency procedure and will surely be supported by the Croatian Democratic Community club, if the Government proposes... to regulate the factoring. [[You don't understand.]] Why, because until this is proposed by this bank law, all bad portfolios can be cleaned up. And what's going to happen is there's going to be a bunch of uncharging claims that's going to spin one round of bad financial decisions again. And that's what we need to talk about here, and that's when we only talk about these two things clearly shows how much we've technically approached, and ultimately from my colleagues' debates in front of me, except for one part of the discussion of HDSSB colleagues, it's clear how technical access to this problem is. But I repeat, one of the most important institutions in the Republic of Croatia and one of the institutions that has led order to the financial market, whether or not my colleague Samodol liked it. So if someone unwarrantedly chatted what was said on the tail, they have institutions that would say you didn't act in accordance with the law, sometimes you have to do it differently. But he clearly sent certain messages, and we're going to destroy it now, because with this kind of structure, we're destroying it. My people, we experts in this area don't have much and let's not fool ourselves. The financial market in Croatia is weak. You know when it was the biggest activity, when practically on the Zagreb Stock Exchange there were 4, 5 major companies. Since these shares have sold us trade on the Zagreb Stock Exchange is very small, but it is very important in the processes that will follow if the Government continues the investment cycle and if the law on the takeover of companies etc., that the market is clear, that the market is stable and that whoever wants to invest money in Croatia, I say whether it is at home or outside, knows clearly by what rules it participates in the game and also knows that it has a regulatory body that protects it and protects its invested capital, and that is the key thing if you want to attract someone to invest in the Republic of Croatia. And therefore, colleagues and colleagues, I don't understand the one you approached to amend this law, the law that should have been amended. He was supposed to go in two readings, but you shouldn't have changed him at all. All you had to do was build it up like other European members did and like America did. It is also forbidden for HANFA to give an opinion on EU regulations and directives, opening up room for opinions on issues of different ministries. It's the same thing that's not good. If someone's doing some work, then he should give an opinion. A certain ministry because of this or that interest, because of its intricacies, not because of bad intentions, can give a completely wrong opinion. Also, that the surplus income from HANFA is being paid to the state budget clearly destroys the independence of HANFA and... depending on the state budget. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's a fact. Look at the HANFA Act, look at how things are coming in and as soon as you tell them the difference between surpluses, you actually have to invest extra income between income and expenditure in the state budget you take one part of their financial independence to a particular thing, push them under the dependence of a certain political nomenclature. And so finally, it follows from the bill that the relationship between the Governing Council and the Secretary-General will be regulated by the HANFA Statute as a key organisational instrument. I don't understand what the secretary general is doing, what his responsibility is and what he's doing here. He's a foreign body. It's the management of the HANFA that runs the HANFA. And finally a colleague and fellow appointment for six years clear political message. And if after a certain time comes, and I hope that political changes will come, then the law will come again. Mr. Vice President, let me at least say two more sentences. Because I know the truth hurts and sometimes it's hard to hear arguments. But colleagues and colleagues, you must face the fact that by now you have made a series of decisions that will be very devastating and difficult for Croatia. But I repeat, no one has given you the right to destroy the best regulatory body in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2187	But that's why you've got more to say at the end of the line, even if you're out of time. Thank you, Mr. Representative. In an individual debate, Mrs. Advocacy appeared, and the correction. Excuse me. Correction of the incorrect allegations by Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2188	Two false allegations. ... In fact, through this Act it was intended to get through that the HANF does not issue licences, or withdraws the activity permits. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's incorrect, even though it wouldn't say that in this law. In each individual law relating to, for example, the Insurance Act, on certain investment funds. It says everywhere that the regulatory authority, i.e. the supervisory authority, is, in our case, the HANFA for this matter. Therefore, the individual law is directly applicable. Secondly, the appointment of the secretary-general would actually disrupt the agency's work. Well, it's been specifically defined as part of the Secretary General's work. He organizes the Agency's work and manages the business, and supervision is carried out by the administrative council.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2189	Thank you very much. Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2190	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, you have injured Article 209. Rules of Procedure. My colleague Zgrebec can't correct my opinion. That's the facts.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2191	Today there have been corrections on your part of at least three to five other opinions, and you can wink at each other now, and I'm just saying it would be nice to stick to the Rules of Procedure all together. And we're gonna say that one more time until we change it, and then I guess we're gonna do something different. Thank you very much. And at the end of the debate, Mrs. Nevenka Becic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2192	Thank you very much, Mr. President, government representatives, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. Since I come directly from the economy, I cannot look back on this proposal of the final text of the law on Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. Namely, I have information from the economy that has been verified by the economic operators where certain legal entities have been damaged because the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency has been not performing the work of the district and the competences referred to in Article 15. The law. It is true that on December 29th, the Croatian Government adopted a regulation appointing the interim chairman of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, granting him the authority to represent the Agency and to carry out the Agency's activities, but the interim chairman of the administration does not have the authority or the right to perform the actions and tasks referred to in Article 15. The law. And these are the very actions and jobs set out in Article 15 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The law gives security to legal entities, investors, natural persons who want to invest in a regulated financial market in the Republic of Croatia. What's the damage? I'm going to point it out directly in a few copies. Therefore, investors who have been engaged in the purchase of securities and shares of stock companies listed on a regulated financial market in the Republic of Croatia have committed significant financial resources to realise some of their investment ventures precisely in this direction that I have now stated. Of course, it is expected that such an investment will be realised within that time limit. But what happened? It happened that according to the law they had to go to central... deposit as a guarantee or cash as a deposit or bank guarantee. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Bank guarantee costs. It produces costs for economic operators. The depositing of cash also costs, because cash in the economy serves to rotate and bring extra profits, not to stand deposited without any interest and any contribution in the central... Guys. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The interruption of the continuity of the work of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency has just led economic operators to suffer this damage and the question of who will make up for it, but it is not only that damage for the Croatian economy because the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency has today issued no conclusion or consent to which it has granted the permission to publish offers to take over potential investors who have entered into those investment procedures. But what happens next? In this final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, which we will discuss today and vote on, it is proposed that this text be adopted, but in Article 6 literally states: The Government of the Republic of Croatia will propose to the Croatian Assembly candidates for the President and members of the Governing Council of the Agency within 15 days of the date of entry into force of this law. When does this law come into force? So by day of publication in the People's Newspaper. What does that mean translated into the language of us coming from the economy? It means that we've been disabled for more than 30 days in the realization of the projects we've taken. Furthermore, this Article 6 shall mean that within 15 days, the President and members of the Governing Council of the Assembly will be proposed. While it is proposed, while the Assembly adopts it, while it is published in the National Journal will go on for at least 30 days, perhaps 45 more days. Plus these 30 that's already gone. Well, it's a three-month block of investment investments in the Croatian economy that is on its knees. I think that when we change the legal rules, we should all be aware, be thorough and be responsible. Responsible for Croatian people and Croatian workers working in these Croatian entities. This is a bad message to all potential investors because everyone will wonder how we will invest our funds there in that economy when we do not know when any law will change, or as long as the amendment of some law takes place whether the existing law will be put out of effect or will cease to apply as it did in the case of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. Therefore, the fact is that since 22 December, this agency has not carried out those actions that must be carried out by law, which is why I repeat the economy has suffered damage. I took this out on the Finance Committee, too. Of course, these are the facts that I have presented, but we also all have the opportunity to amend this Article 6 somewhat and to appoint, within a very short period of time, the Council and the President of the Council in a very urgent procedure and to grant him the power not immediately but within 24 hours, to carry out all those tasks for which HANFA exists and which are listed in Article 15 of the Law. If we do not do so, you must know that the economy has already suffered damage and will continue to suffer. And the message is clear to all investors insecure investment in the economy and economy of this country. This is what I had to say because my colleagues and colleagues from entrepreneurship address me and comment because they believe that as a person who comes directly from the economy, I can convey to my colleagues and colleagues in the right way, as well as to the members of the government, to Mr. President of the Parliament, too, what is holding them down and what is causing them a narrow throat and making them impossible to do their daily jobs based on which they exist, and yet on the welfare of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2193	Thank you, too. The replica was answered by Mr. Representative Igor Radjenović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2194	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, not doubting the good information of Mrs. Becic, who certainly comes from the economy or economy as she said all of this information that stands and a good part of the argument stands, but the arguments about how things happen are getting in the way of some colleagues from her club and all the message the government is sending here. This is what the Government, which was appointed on December 23rd if I am not mistaken and made, the new Government, but on December 29th, the man to whom the mandate was appointed by the V.D. and responsible, and the representatives of the Ministry of Finance argue that I believe in this, in a way, responsibly propose amendments and additions to the laws that are necessary and just do so in a quick procedure. So first and second reading, not stalling the story as we do. And what you're saying is Article 6 that certainly describes, and that's the deadline in which it has to happen in 15 days, and somehow my feeling tells me that we're going to do it this week is the reason we're sitting for this long is probably one of those. And I expect that very quickly the HANFA Administrative Council will make all these duties that this government is trying through the Ministry of Finance as soon as possible to revive the institution and all these tasks, the extremely important tasks that are ahead of it, operational by the end of this month. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2195	Thank you. Replica reply, Ms. Nevenka Becic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2196	Thank you very much. I'm exhibiting here in good faith. Therefore, it is true that under the old law, the Law on the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency in Article 4(6) states that the interim chairman of the administration may carry out all but the decision-making powers relating to the tasks referred to in Article 15 of this Act. So, you, when you appointed, when the government appointed the interim president of the administration, the truth is that he could not carry out these actions, but I believe that it was necessary to prevent this situation from being damaged, that it was necessary to extend the mandate to the existing administration for one month so as not to interrupt the work of HANFA. Here, that's my answer. So it took them a month's term of office so that there would be no impasse in doing their jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-25-0.u2197	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We move to a vote on the final draft law amending the Law on the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 24. The debate is concluded, I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get involved and vote. I find that most of the votes 74 for, 14 against and 6 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending the Law on the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
