ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15304	... MPs. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Thank you for your decision on a united debate because our focus in proposing a new executive system is based on certain institutes that we have passed through these four laws that are now mentioned and in which we intervene these proposals. The first and basic is the executive law that we have proposed as a new one, although we are based on the upgrade of the law which is now in force, while we are also giving up the 2010 law that was proposed and which we have delayed twice as you know. The law provided for a new institute, a public enforcement institute, from which we have given up, based on a detailed analysis of the structure of the executive cases of court burden and the possibility of improving the procedure. In fact, we are guided by the Council of Europe guidelines on better implementation of the implementation and these guidelines require that the implementation be made available, speedy and efficient and that, at the same time, as far as possible, protect the dignity of the debtors. We concluded that these objectives would not be achieved by introducing a private public enforcement service for simple reasons because the exercise becomes less accessible because according to the intended model we give up on it was the only legal way to force the demand. Therefore, the party was obliged to address the public executioner and, in all circumstances, to collect the demand, not only on other means but also on cash, because at one point it appeared as a problem. Therefore, the system was so designed that the decisions, i.e. public records, made on the basis of a credible document should not contain the subject and means of enforcement, but rather the subject and means of enforcement according to this new concept should be indicated by public perpetrators. It is an additional phase in the process that is now missing and this additional phase requires additional costs for citizens. This is the problem that is first seen in this system, so the availability of the execution would not be greater than that which is now in force, which is in force, otherwise the costs would increase. The procedure would also be segregated, definitely separated at the stage of determining the performance that would continue to be in the jurisdiction of the public notaries, i.e. the court, and at the stage of implementation of the exercise which would be within the competence of the public perpetrators, and this is the same phase, i.e. an additional phase that makes it difficult, i.e. keeping us away from the objectives of improving the performance. The question and effectiveness of such a system shall be raised when it is taken into account that public contractors choose the subject and the means of enforcement independently and independently, and may change it, and thus determine the costs and actions. So the system is also in this sense, instead of being improved he was in this sense improved. What is the same important goal, on which Europe has put us a great accent is the discharging of courts. In this system, disbursement of courts would not take place because of all complaints and objections to the work of the perpetrators would determine the jurisdiction of municipal courts, so they would certainly have an increase in the number of cases instead of a reduction. We have analyzed the executive system in detail as it is now in use and we have found plenty of space in which we can lead to significant improvement and acceleration and efficiency of the performance. What led us were good performance results through the FINA, i.e. through the agency. So since 1 January 2011, we have had in application of the Act on the implementation of the budget implementation and this is the second law in which we intervened. The Agency's performance is something that is still closer to our legal system, if we look through continuity and those tools that we have inherited from the social accounting service, then there are tools that allow the implementation to be carried out more quickly and efficiently and we believe that the implementation should be upgraded in this direction. Therefore, we have amended the Act on the implementation of the implementation of the budget in so long as we have determined that the executive document by which the Agency can implement the exercise and judgment, the decision of the administrative authority. So we expanded those foundations for agency activity through FINA, and we shortened part of the process, and we significantly shortened it, and in a large number of cases, this reduction will be seen. Namely, this is the most significant newspaper in our proposal. It shall be possible to direct payment of cash by means of the Financial Agency on the basis of the executive decision and the contract of the national court and of the administrative authority, i.e. the account of the employer of the non-payment of the salary. Namely, these are all the acts in which the search is expressed in money and it is logical that it is charged in debt. There is no need for this stage, which now exists, so determining the implementation of the implementation of the debtor's money in particular. It is logical that the claim in money is charged in money and we believe that this stage should not be further had, i.e. that it is possible to make direct payments through FINA. We used those tools that already exist to ensure the safety of this kind of execution is maximumized. So we have personal identification number data, we have a unique account register, and by connecting these two elements, we can carry out a performance on the assets that are on the debtor's account depending on how many there are. So the charge is done by this technical means, where we're actually losing every possibility of manipulation and we're being transparent in that part. This, of course, significantly speeds up the process of enforcement because that promotion that is still important to highlight is what we have defined as a primary one. So we avoid what is now the case that the believer can simultaneously initiate the executive procedure on all possible means that the debtor has. So at the same time, on both real estate and movables, we have five or how many items in relation to one claim. It will primarily be the payment of cash demand in money, which is logical, and in addition, if the funds are not available or if the account will be permanently blocked for that debtor, they will be transferred to the performance of other funds, i.e. movables or real estate. It is important to point out that we have significantly shortened the performance of the movement in the procedural section. So we've determined significant improvements in the process and I want to highlight this as important when there's nothing else, so when there's no funds, no real estate remains movable. And movables are the area of performance that actually touches the most socially endangered layers. This is the area where protection of dignity is primary and most important. The implementation of an indefinitely repeated implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the implementation of the exercise of the movement and which is based on the continuous arrival and inspection of the property of individuals is not something we want, or insist that it be carried out in as little a shop as possible and carried out in the presence of the credentials. We consider this provision very important because it is the believer who creates the course of the procedure, he is obliged to attend the implementation of the exercise on the movements to determine the state of these movements and whether they represent anything from whose value the search could be charged. Of course, there will also be an opportunity for the search to be paid directly, so we have introduced the provisions on which the debt account should be held in this situation, because it is a practice that parties on the spot when the census comes to the list and the survey of the movables settle the debt. We have intervened and related to better implementation of the exercise in terms of availability as much as we have determined, prescribed certain forms based on which parties will require this direct implementation of the funds. This is considered to be an important promotion because the data Corps that the party has to enter will be precisely determined in order to carry out the performance effectively. And for that typeing, of course, they won't have to ask for special legal assistance. What is also important is that we upgrade the information system, network public records offices and the Financial Agency. We're leading, we're going to introduce a special registries register, and compared to this problem that came up in practice as a big one, we've made solutions that we think are good, and that's going to make it impossible for what we've witnessed until recently, which is the appearance of counterfeit debtors. Namely, the debtor is an id which is strengthened in front of the public notary and to be carried out, i.e. that the investigation and the debtors would be carried out through the FINA, it is important that it be carried out through the debt register. For future debtors, this will be the obligation for anyone who is being locked up, and for the current moment when the believer submits it for collection, he will be required to do that shop to register it with the notary and only then will the FINA be able to collect it. We have also changed the actual jurisdiction so much that we have left the system under which the Court of Commerce is conducted. In fact, we believe that this is what we were invited to do, and that is what we were really offered for in practice. According to the provisions of the existing Implementing Law, the Trade Court may entrust the executive actions to the Municipal Courts, and that happens in practice, so what has been seen in our negotiations with the European Commission, we are not necessarily handling two cases in relation to one claim of one case and with that basis, the Trade and Municipal Court. On the other hand, the municipal courts will now, after being carried out on the basis of the executive documents, become the source of direct payment through the FINA, be significantly relieved of these procedures and will in fact remain only the implementation of the exercise on real estate and movables or I do not know on other rights. And for this reason, they will be able to take over this change of jurisdiction, and that will balance the practice in this part, and that is very necessary given the different solutions that have occurred. The guidelines for the implementation of the implementing act require, and the proposed law guarantees the availability of legal medicinal products at all stages of the determination and implementation of the implementing act. And in conclusion, as we have spoken about this law, we have received a positive assessment from the European Commission because, based on a detailed analysis of the situation of the case, their duration, the search structure and these outside of the judicial tools which we have mentioned, we have demonstrated through the Agency and through the FINA that what we are proposing is an important step forward and a significant improvement of the performance that will certainly be shown in practice, and we will, of course, follow this promotion and we are confident that within a year, 6 months we will certainly prove that this proposal is the one that is fulfilling and fulfilling these important guidelines for better implementation, i.e. for its availability, acceleration and efficiency. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15305	Thank you very much. We are going to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The first club is SDP and respected representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15306	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, my colleagues and my colleagues, the respected Deputy Minister. Here we are once more before us are the executive laws, i.e. a set of laws that should systematically regulate the implementation of the executive procedure in the Republic of Croatia. This time these laws are in the final form and I believe that we will adopt them and that they will enter into force in that form on 15 October this year. However, before discussing the text of the proposed laws, let me briefly remind myself of the chronology that preceded this debate today. Namely, the SDP and the parties to the Kukuriku coalition have also said publicly in the pre-election campaign that they are not satisfied with the proposed decision of the executive process, that they are not satisfied with the privatisation of the operation and that one of our main objectives will be to change the system. And already in December last year, immediately after the constitution of the Parliament, we agreed to postpone the application of existing legal solutions because we felt that their entry into force would be harmful. Harmful for the Republic of Croatia and all its citizens. After that, we have accessed a systematic analysis and preparation of new solutions. The analysis conducted a public debate, after which consultations were held with the European Commission, which gave a positive opinion on the solution that lies ahead. There's been a debate several times in this House. First of all, the laws concerning the postponement of the application of the executive law, and finally these laws were in the first reading of this House and we have openly and constructively debated them. Today, we have a set of laws that, in my opinion, are better than those that were to come into force on January 1st of this year. Better because they avoid what we find inadmissible. And I'm going to do it one more time, privatization of the executive procedure. Although we are aware of this, we also debated yesterday when we discussed concessions, that certain state activities must be entrusted to others because the state cannot perform them, however, it is not allowed to do so. Because this is about nagging into the fundamental rights and freedoms of man, and this is about taking away and implementing the exercise on movements the right to non-vulnerability of home, right of ownership, etc. It's that line we can't cross and we can't cross. And that is why the basic solution and the one most often talked about when the issue of Implementing Law was withdrawn from the question of public perpetrators. I can understand the problems these people face today, but I also believe that the problems of those people who have come forward, who have applied for public service are much less than those of all Croatian citizens that the service has come to life and that it has begun to carry out its activities. However, it is only one part of what is in this proposal. The deputy minister has already said a lot about this, but I must point out the agency's performance. Another solution introduced in 2010. But this solution is good and this solution needs to be expanded. Extend beyond those public notices to all other executive documents. Imagine the situation we've had so far. You have an account, you go to a public notary, a public notary gives you a solution to the performance, it becomes a powerful one, and then you go to the Financial Agency and your claim is charged. On the other hand, someone hurt you, hurt you, or otherwise hurt you. You're going to court, the court is in charge of proceedings 2, 3, 5, 10 years, you've been given a final verdict, unlike that case in front of a public notary, you couldn't go directly to the Financial Agency, but you've had to appeal to that court once again, pay court fees to get a solution on a rule where the same court that issued that verdict again says that the verdict is good and can be carried out on the basis of it. This legislative proposal moves this step. Thus, this legislative proposal is good for both executives and executives because it reduces the costs they must make up for before they join the task, and it reduces them for the perpetrators at the end when they are obliged to make up for the costs. Furthermore, this law essentially regulates something that has existed so far in practice. And that's that commercial courts leave all the executives to municipal courts. But imagine, you first had to address the Trade Court who, after a month, two would have reached a solution to the performance and then had to wait for the Trade Court to proceed in a procedure we all regrettably know how long this solution was going on, that is to leave it to the Municipal Court in order for it to carry out certain executive actions. And look, instead of one, we have two or three objects. This law now provides that we will directly address the municipal courts to make a decision and act immediately. The deputy minister was talking about the movement, and I'm gonna concentrate on the real estate performance. We had various solutions in the history of the executive law that went from 50% to a third of the value of real estate and at one point even to the fact that real estate was sold at no cost. Imagine, you could come by law, so the law predicted, offer 1 kuna for someone's property and buy it at auction. Fortunately, the caselaw has changed the solution a little, adjusted a little, because in this form it had no purpose to settle the prophet's claim but the sole purpose of such a legal proposal was to sanction the debtor. This law, in my opinion, accepts a better solution, raises that limit, and I believe that it should be supported in that section. Since we've talked a lot about this House, and it's realistic that we're going to talk about it in the future because none of the executive laws are and can't be St. A letter. It must adapt, adapt to changes in society, adapt to new institutions and institutes that will be introduced into society, all in order to be better and more effective and to fulfil the basic tasks that each executive law must have, and that is to effectively intend the claim of the believer but to violate the dignity and rights of the debtor. This law or this set of laws that is here before us goes in that direction. And I think it'll ensure if we don't already have a 100% effective performance, and then certainly a more efficient and efficient performance than we've had in the Republic of Croatia so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15307	Thank you, Your Honor. We have on your presentation a registered replica of the respected representative of Anna Lovrin. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15308	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Grbin, it's interesting that your chronology has been presented by the SDP in the election campaign. In this chronology you could go a little backwards and remember that this same SDP in 2010 when the Executive Law and all these accompanying laws were before this Croatian Assembly in three readings. In two readings, it was supported unanimously by the law, and in the third with 108 votes of 112 present to watch the SDP calmly watch as the state prepares for a year, invests some funds, money, people take some exams, it costs all the time, effort and money, and then it's still not clear to me today how and why in the pre-election campaign he promised that the law would be abolished, and only after he promised to abolish it, did you say, then he went to do some analysis to support what he had promised his voters, probably to those who were alive interested in not to pass the law, I'll tell you later why.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15309	Thank you very much. Replica's response, the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15310	Thank you. My colleagues, first of all, who does this and makes mistakes. Indeed, after the law was passed, we approached his analysis. Not just us, but all the interested public in the Republic of Croatia, as we call them, so is the professional public. And the majority agreed that the proposed legal solution was not good. We made analyses and guidelines indeed in the election campaign, but as you know, the person who changed the principle of the Ministry of Justice at the end of December of last year. The Ministry of Justice is responsible for carrying out an analysis, the Ministry of Justice that has all the instruments to carry out that analysis and to be the kind of expert analysis it should be. The justice ministry is also tasked with carrying out a public debate on a particular bill, to consult with the European Commission and other bodies, and we are unfortunately not conducting this until late December of last year. And indeed before that we couldn't carry out all these actions that you listed, but we did it the first time. And this law has been a fruit of the Justice Department's work since the first day that the people at his head have changed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15311	Thank you very much. The Croatian Labour Club and the time-shared representative of Dragutin Lesar and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15312	Dear colleagues and colleagues. For example, the implementation of the Implementing Law and the Implementing Act over money in recent times, we can learn how when supervisory authorities authorised to monitor compliance with a certain law are insecurely silent and citizens suffer damage. During the whole last calendar year and through media and personal address, we witnessed a large number of citizens whose accounts were carried out over money and who claimed they had not received an executive order and simply did not understand why their account was blocked. And it took a few months to reconstruct how the government was lurking over the violation of the law. According to Article 13 of the current Implementing Law, it was possible to carry out the performance if the executive order could not be handed over to the debtor via the court’s notice plate. But this announcement of an executive order on the court's advertising board was valid for legal persons and natural persons engaged in certain activities, not citizens' debtors. The publication on the notice board of the executive order for debtors came into force only 1.1.2012, this year in accordance with Article 360. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following For citizens, it could only begin to apply at the beginning of this year. the whole last calendar year, all creditors to the citizens, either finging the attempt to deliver or going directly to the court's advertising board, doing the exercises, and therefore, too many protected receipts have gone into effect because the citizens were not able to protect themselves in time. They didn't know there was an executive procedure. I have the testimony of those who have done these procedures that have been massively applied and none of the Croatian National Bank nor the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of Finance have responded to the flagrant violation of the Executive Law against the citizens for 100, 200, 300, 500, thousands of kunas of debt and the implementation of all of the birth benefits, children's allowances, student loans all living just because no one wanted to carry out surveillance, and we have asked for a public call and we have indicated that there is something wrong about the implementation of the executive procedure. Let this illegal practice, and even the state bodies, warn us now that we are making new regulations not only about the norm but also about its implementation. As far as the proposed law of conduct over funds is concerned, I'll only set two things aside. The media already announces that now there will be an end to non-payment of salaries because I quote "the employer's account of the outstanding amount of wages or severance will be an executive document through which workers in the executive procedure will be able to settle their claims". First, the employer's reckoning was declared an executive correction in the Labour Act, so it's not a newspaper. And the employer's obligation that when he can't pay his salary, salary or severance fee, he must give the bills of the paid share, is no news, but of course it does not apply in Croatia. And then employers who don't pay their wages don't give workers a reckoning that they haven't paid anything. And here it is again about a false hope offered to workers, that the executive payment will be able to block the executive procedure and remove the claim from the employer's account. Why, because Article 132 shall enter into force on the following year. A criminal law which has declared non-payment of salaries a criminal offence, but only in the shortest possible terms, that the employer has money and does not want to pay the wages. So he's got money, and he doesn't want to pay, because the formula used is that it's not a crime of non-payment of wages if the employer doesn't have the possibility of having financial resources or a lack of financial resources. So not giving, not paying an employer's bill to an unpaid claim worker, for unpaid pay, salary or severance fee, and beyond that is not a criminal offence. It is only sanctioned by the Labour Act in Article 294 with the penalty of, as a violation, 61,000 to 100,000 kuna. And when you connect Article 85. The labour law and 294 remain only in the area of the offence when you read Article 132. The penal law will show that the question of the collection of workers' claims by the executive correction of the employer's reckoning remains only a theory, not the possibility of applying because I did not encounter or data from the State Inspectorate found a sanctioning of non-payment of wages when the employer did not pay the salary. Only when and if the same importance of non-payment of wages and non-accounts for unpaid wages are we sanctioned by criminal legislation, then this makes sense. Secondly, Article 11 of this Act provides that the FINA and the state bodies shall match data on protected incomes which cannot be subject to the executive procedure and that is good. Therefore, according to the official duty to pay child benefits, maternity benefits, social assistance and all that is protected by law from enforcement under official duty, they have the data. But what's the problem? The deadline for implementing this is one year from the entry into force of this law, even a year. And the executive procedures, of course, go further. It would be extremely good and useful if the government had proposed that deadline reduced to at least 6 months or within that year to resolve the implementation, procedures, executive procedure for protected receipts in a different way. We're not going to help people because it's too long, it's not going to work in these procedures, and we're going to testify again with the executive procedures on protected receipts, the opening of protected accounts, but what goes into effect once, and it's protected, it can't go back. If you had at least intervened and proposed in the law that illegal enforcement of protected funds, receipts and after enforcement must be returned if it was not respected by law. Then that would be some kind of progress. There are too many cases of illegal conduct that we have the right only to bring legal norms, not to see what happens to us in practice when it comes to labour claims and executive proceedings against the poorest.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15313	Thank you very much. And respected representative Branko Vuksic, part two.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15314	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the respected deputy minister. It is also likely that this testimony by the president of the Croatian Labour Party club was purely populism, testimony in practice as the performances are done, as we are often honored by this left-hand side of the Parliament that Croatian Labourists deal only with populism, but I will try to practically explain what populism is. Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic recently stated: who thinks the Bible is complicated to read the Executive Law, I don't think anyone will quote it. The law of law is very complicated. Here's the Executive Act, this is a 90-year-old book, the contents of a few thousand-year-olds, and it's less complicated than the Executive Act. Neither is the Bible complicated, nor is this executive law complicated, if read well, if read as well as the Bible needs to be read and not completely sure, whether you are an atheist, agnostic, or a believer, in political matters they are speaking to touring. It is certainly not a complicated executive law, it is a complicated economic situation in the Republic of Croatia, a complicated life of citizens with uninventional, ineffective and pessimistic authorities. It remains for all those citizens who do not, over whom the work is done, only the Bible remains for sure, if there is no good Implementing Law. As of Friday, I believe they'll be helped by this executive law that's better than the previous one. Due to the performance of every day in the Republic of Croatia, the accounts of 400 to 500 Croatian citizens have been blocked, newly blocked accounts due to non-payments, and the loans of citizens do not pay because they have no reason to, because they either got fired or their salary was cut or the Swiss simply flew to heaven and simply what the commitments they made when they took up the loan can no longer be met today. Citizens are being executed for not paying for electricity, for not paying for phones, cell phones, water, TV fees and anything else. Nearly 250,000 citizens currently have blocked accounts in Croatian banks, or banks in Croatia, more specifically. The total debt of citizens to loans and communals at this point is about 14.5 billion kuna or 15 billion kuna, each day increasing. Due to the performance of this moment in Croatia there are about 1200 houses, apartments or business spaces on the drum, and the houses go to the drum you know well, not when the water reaches the throat, but when the water crosses the throat. So, on all these properties, more specifically real estate owners, an executive procedure has been carried out over the debtors. It's not a rare case that over 100,000 kunas of debt loses a house worth more than a million kunas or several million kunas and there are actually, there's the biggest crime going on. More than 20,000 items are currently in executive and bankruptcy proceedings. Can you imagine how complicated life becomes for those citizens who don't have the money to pay TV tax or gas, and their debt is 250 kn. Because after the conduct of the procedure, an account comes to them from the lawyer's office amounting to 1250 kuna. Many lawyers, such as Hanžekovic's law firm, who make debts on behalf of HTV, have made very rich taxes. They have made a fortune, of course, on the misfortunes of Croatian citizens who do not, not that they do not want to pay their bills but have nothing to pay their bills for. Despite the chaos in the judiciary, however, despite judges who have been in litigation for 10, 20 and more years, despite some judges who have almost pointed out the prices at their doors, they become the ones who dared to judge justly. Those who dare to unwrap a complicated ball. One judge ruled, a lawyer's office cannot charge $1250 in the executive procedure. And how much can he do? The judge said 400 kuna. Well done, sir, or good for you, Your Honor. In Croatia is one of the largest flossules before the law we are all equal, because in us are the laws of spiders through which great flies pass and only small flies are caught. From that, before the law, everyone is equally annoying. Flew that we are a righteous society. Because justice is a sum of all virtues, and we don't have too many. It's hard to digest and flossula that we're a social state and a solidarity society. Equality, justice, and solidarity are neither seen in the executive law. For example, the poor, the low-income, with a salary of less than the average net salary in the Republic of Croatia in the executive procedure will be taken at the level of two-thirds of the pay of the perpetrators. If the execution is carried out on the salary of the perpetrators with higher income than the performance will be the exception of the amount of two-thirds of the average net salary in the Republic of Croatia. The state has more understanding of those with higher wages. Reading this text by Mr. Milanovic, more complicated than the Bible, I noticed another one for our occasions of great illogicality that will give everyone especially to those who take the money big headaches. For the purpose of preventing abuse, it will determine the belief's obligation to guarantee the truthfulness of the data under the threat of criminal responsibility. With this degree of morality or, more specifically, immorality, only naives believe that true believers will generally provide true information. Does that mean they're not afraid of criminal responsibilities? That's what it They've learned to last until old, if they don't, to make sure they do anyway. He trades with everything. Had to be the last hole in that store on the piano. Well, we heard, and we saw, that Mr. Zdenko Antešić was an immoral gesture, legally impunity due to the immoral law justifying his need for a higher pension. Mr Ivo Sanader also had great needs, despite his being unable to justify legal incomes, not a single property in front of the courtroom each day shares moral disciplines to the entire people. We're all dishonest, only he's honest. That's it. That's it. That's it. It is not a complicated Bible, it is not a complicated procedure, and it is not a complicated proposal for an executive law. In Article 13, I hope that it is not unfortunate to say that in the executive procedure and the insurance procedure, the court is obliged to act urgently. What is urgent for the Croatian judiciary? If disputes take place, work disputes lead to ten years of emergency – 2 months, 6 months or 10 years. The Croatian judiciary has an urgent view of the concept as very complicated and this should be specified in the law. Even the Bible does not help. The hand of the heart of this law at least declares itself to protect the dignity of the perpetrators in such a way that the execution of the perpetrators is as unfavourable as possible, so as not to become an insurmountable obstacle to him. It is important and extremely important whether a poor grandmother with a minimum non-payment pension is carried out in Istria or in the Kvarner Islands where there is no TV signal and where TV tax should not be paid because the Croatian TV programme or the tycoon with a giant villa is not normally monitored, with a car of several hundred thousand kunas. One of the most important or very important things in the executive process is the delivery of the decision on the performance of which was spoken by more of the president of the Croatian Labour Club. It's very common manipulations with delivery solutions because mailmen come to citizens' home address as a rule when they work, if they're lucky to have jobs or when they go to the post office or when they go to collect bottles in containers. When it comes to errands, the most often do not leave notifications in mailboxes. Those who wonder why the answer is that a solution could be attached at some point on an invisible advertisement board and that bad practice for the perpetrators could continue. Although it is better than the previous and the prime minister's assessment more complicated, although it sees good intentions in a system such as the government in Croatia and this law can be useful to those who have everything, and to have as much as possible, and it can be harmful to those who have nothing or have little. With this executive law, it will be believed that less deception, less fraud, less accident for those whose lives and banks and red tape have turned their backs. Those whose business has failed because of a complicated situation and chaos in the country. You have to believe that this is one step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15315	Thank you, Your Honor. At the presentation of the Croatian Labour Club, i.e. at the presentation of the respected representative Dragutin Lesar, one replica. Dear representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15316	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, my colleague Lesar, I agree with you in the part where you said that the introduction of the extrajudicial exercise and the confirmation of the employer of the outstanding amount of wages, compensation and severance will not actually be a magic wand as presented here that workers will also come to their claims. But what I don't think you're exactly stating is that the new Penal Code imposed a crime of non-payment of wages. Yes, in a more clearly sophisticated form, however, even under the current Penal Code, there is a criminal offence of the right of employment to go to and pay. Another problem is that it is not processed under official duty, so there is no will of the body to do so, and on the other hand, often workers have difficulty living, fear for their jobs and very often do not even dare to file criminal charges against their employer expecting, however, some sort of payment of their due, due wages and fees. Thus, the problem is far more complex and layered.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15317	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15318	My colleague Lovrin's old Penal Code Article 214 I followed back 8 years. In those 8 years following the provision of Article 214 for non-payment of salaries under official duty proceedings initiated, a single employer was processed. Because the formulation that was written in it was interpreted in a way like a full mouth of chewing gum, especially by the State's Attorney's Office. However, when a new Penal Code was passed, I warned of Article 132, it will make absolutely no progress in the protection of workers' payout rights because, according to his provision, the crime in Croatia is only with that employer who has limited money and does not want to pay. So it has to be proved that he had, and he didn't want to pay the salary. And of course it's looking at a jury account of a daughter's company where the workers themselves are without property, and the business of income leads to another jury account and turns out to be a poor poor guy that he didn't have to pay. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. The labour law has created a situation that will continue to be the same position. Unfortunately, neither you nor right now have the political will to sanction yourself when we have already enabled such a broad interpretation of the provisions of the Penal Code and not to give an id unless there is really no money to enable workers to seek in the executive procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15319	Thank you very much. At the presentation of respected representative Branko Vuksic, one replica of respected representative Bora Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15320	Thank you very much. My colleague Vuksic, you offered me your speech in which life situations were common, to say the torments, our citizens in connection with the performance, the bankruptcys to give a personal example where I was pacifying a debt of 8.5 thousand kuna to a close relative, so after 5 years of the established debt, I paid 28.5 thousand kuna because he couldn't pay. When I tried to talk to the lawyer who sent it and who represented, I won't say which, but you said one of them, so it's a telecom, then that lawyer wouldn't take me into the office, I ended up at the door on the portophone even though I introduced myself even though it doesn't matter who I am, but it can't be talked. I've been told you have papers, you have an assignment, you have an amount to pay, I have nothing to talk to you about. I tried to make a deal, which is why I came, but there's no talking about it. It's a great honor for that judge you listed and who cut the so-called. I don't know who or the judge's legal costs, so it's a bright, unique example in Croatia. When you were talking about the former prime minister there's really nothing to say, here's the 10th of December of this year, so in 2012, two years he's been arrested in Salzburg, and I think there's more to television and public media than we all do here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15321	Thank you, too. Replica response, respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15322	Well, yes, Mr. Grubishic, I could have cited these examples countless times. Every day at the Croatian Labour Club as well as probably other parties' clubs come examples, complaints come, requests from citizens who have no money to help them, and themselves also had difficulties not because of themselves but because of others in the family to pay great costs for law offices. With Croatian television, 30 law offices have concluded contracts to pursue the money of poor people and all 30 people who have spoken here often at the Media Committee's Parliament are well spoken of, lives well, enjoys the misfortune of Croatian citizens and this judicial practice that the exception should become a rule and should actually end up paying several hundred kunas several thousand kunas. So let's also say one account that was 1300 kuna I tried with the debt lawyer's office that was made in Međimurje to fight to make it not 2500 kuna but 1500 kuna alone. So, they were favored because they were likely. Yes, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15323	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Damir Cain and club IDS. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15324	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mrs. Sandra Kunscht, gentlemen of the Parliament. How to start that just before Mr Vuksic mentioned the Bible and the Executive Law. The Bible clearly needs to be kept in the Bible, to learn life, to apply the law, to teach morals, to seek out a more humane and humane course. The Bible does not touch and the executive law clearly states that they are subject to change. I just want to believe that this law is such and indeed Croatia needs one more humane, one more righteous, one more humane executive law. As Mr. Peja said, it was an election promise. Don't privatise executive treatment. We don't need them as some have spoken in the election of the sherphies who will invade the institutions, prey on the people with the hard-earned property. To be cynical about it, we have the Committee of Conflict of Interest, they will enter our apartments but no others will enter. At a time when we can express myself to the reincarnation of this Sultan Suleiman, we don't need Janjičars who will impose some justice but what we must do, we simply need to change the circumstances that people in this country can start working, pay obligations, settle taxes, communal expenditures to have and to work in this country are worth it. We today have over 300 thousand unemployed who were actually in July. It never happened to us that in the seventh month we had more unemployed than at 6:00 p.m., more than at 7:00 p.m. We have 231 thousand 492 blocked citizens, we have 73,000 358 blocked companies and crafts. When we look at it and add it up, then we see that every four, five. The family is simply afraid of the performance in this country, and maybe it's real for everyone else. Someone can't pay taxes to the state administration or to the tax administration, someone can't pay the television, someone can't pay the electricity, someone can't pay the credit because of the growth of Swiss people, and this law I'd say is not a problem now for tax administration executives, but this law is a problem for Croatian citizens and small entrepreneurs. Somebody don't pay you the goods delivered, so that company's right in front of the show, it's not even worse, it's under bankruptcy. How do you get out of that blockade? Taxes should be paid, directors should be paid, obligations should be settled, communals should be serviced, fines should be daily simply for those who are not in that situation accounted for, but this should also be said in July in this country was 43.8 billion kuna, net wages in July were 3.8% lower than last year, unemployment increased, industrial production fell, retail traffic fell, construction works fell, etc. It's just the point, it's our daily routine. And then clearly we have and the problem with this is that we have a problem with this law. There's no one in this country at least I want to believe that I wouldn't pay for something, but I agree that order in society should be and that's what needs to be pointed out. It's a question of the sustainability of the budget, pension funds, health funds, so I don't keep counting. You at this point no matter what anyone thinks you don't know who's in a harder position whether a worker or that little businessman who has to secure a salary in a small company to that same employee. Are pensioners in bigger trouble with two thousand kunas or unemployed? But I should also believe that in this country, trends are likely to start to change, and I am convinced that what the government does is going in this direction. But it is also clear that recovery cannot occur overnight, and we are now reading that the growth of GDP towards some banks or analysts is difficult to reach before 2015. Here in this law it is literally said that this law is primarily tangling or leaving the Institute of Public Service, retaining that traditional judicial model of enforcement while at the same time strengthening the extrajudicial i.e. implementing agencies for certain executive documents. I agree, there were some problems, some were buying business spaces, some executives were leaving jobs that had a question about whether they could go back there. Here, this law balances the rights of the enforcer to achieve demand and the rights of the perpetrators to protect dignity in a public procedural legal framework that allows speed and efficiency at reasonable costs of the process, whether or not we will see it. The possibility of direct compensation of cash demand is introduced on the basis of certain executive documents through the financial agency. A new definition of the actual jurisdiction of the courts in the executive proceedings is proposed. The competent authorities of municipal courts are proposed to determine the implementation of the exercise in order to achieve uniform management and concentration of these executive procedures, etc., etc. But what makes me appear, among other things, is in this law and in every law of this violation. These are the provisions on the page. 142 Articles 365, 366, 367, so the fine of 10 to 50 thousand kuna will be fined if it goes against the provisions of Article 212(3) or the fine of 2 to 10 thousand for the offence, I do not know the person responsible in that legal person and again, 10 to 50 thousand, 2 to 10 thousand is not sure whether or not the legislators of these laws, and I agree that there should be a beating and know that it is difficult for a small business entity to reach a thousand and let alone 10 or 50 thousand kuna. I think that punishments need to be reduced in some way, that punishments should not be exaggerated particularly in these financial laws. You get a commission I don't know the tax administration but predetermined punishment. We have these violations here now, and then you have to pay a tight interest, so you can't get away with it. What also bothers me is that when you're almost entrenched, you think that all employers are in this country, and you know the circumstances themselves are simply thieves. No, they're not bandits. Right, they've been reduced by someone to tell them contributions to Croatian healthcare from 15% to 13%, it's commendable. But I repeat, today may be harder to be that little merchant, that little craftsman, that little businessman, than to be the worker that works with him. I don't know if anyone will agree with me, but I don't think I'm far from the truth. We must also bear in mind that those who are being hired tomorrow, and all of us would be most fortunate to be able to work in this public sector, will have to, that's simply the point, in circumstances where they are being fired or are about to be fired or retired, it doesn't matter what, 20,000 people in that public sector, so they can only be employed in such small companies and so I appeal that penalties be as small as possible and that the procedure is carried out according to this for them if they are already in such proceedings, more favourable legislation. Right, the execution may be the hardest thing to hit the debtor. If someone doesn't have any money, if they don't have any real estate, then somebody's got a TV set, a stove, etc. It's something that's questionable with that moral, I'd say with a human mind. Right, once again, in the election campaign, we said we wouldn't be allowed to privatise this executive law. I've been reading recently that even some are thinking that part of police work should be given to private people, even keeping them in prisons that they should be entrusted to private people. I don't know how long but well, we'll see how it works. As regards the implementation of the real estate, Article 103, where it is said that since it is established that the conditions for the maintenance of the hearing and for the auction of the judge, or the public notary, are met, it is not for me, but I have pointed out but it is not. Then 102, well, it doesn't matter now, I'll find him. The movement, Article 145, together with the inventory will also carry out an assessment of the movement unless they are trusted to sell to the public commissioner. An assessment shall be carried out by the judicial officer if the court has not ordered it to be carried out by a judicial assessor or a special expert. The public commissioner will carry out an assessment of the movables that are handed over to him for sale, etc. Article 152, sales of movements seized in the executive procedure can be entrusted to a public commissioner, so on his behalf he works for someone else's account. The Minister responsible for economic affairs, with the agreement of the Minister in charge of construction and spatial planning activities, will lay down the conditions for the performance of public commissioner’s tasks in respect of accommodation space, staff trained in the classification, storage, storage and storage of transport and the labour force for the dispatch of seized movements, etc. We have completely new institutes that will need to be provided with certain resources that will eventually be relocated to the one through which the performance will be passed. Selling motor vehicles, I don't want to talk about it. But what may be most interesting in this law is Article 172, or 173, where the exemption is mentioned. Thus, they are exempt from the obligation to receive on the basis of legal abstention, compensation for health or reduction or loss of work capacity and loss of benefits for loss of maintenance due to death of the maintenance provider, remuneration on the basis of compensation for physical damage according to the rules on disability insurance, social welfare benefits, temporary unemployment, child benefits unless the special regulation provides otherwise, scholarships and assistance to students, compensation for the work of convicts other than those on the basis of legal maintenance, receipts based on the award and recognition, parental, parental, parental support unless otherwise specified, the remaining receipts are excluded from the exercise. Then we're talking about a limit to the execution. If the execution is carried out on the salary of the perpetrators of the performance, the amount of the average net salary in the Republic of Croatia shall be excluded from the implementation of the average net salary in the Republic of Croatia, if the perpetrator receives a salary of less than the average net salary of the Republic of Croatia, the amount of the pay of the perpetrators shall be excluded from the implementation. In addition, the Commission notes that, in the light of the above, the Commission considers that, in the light of the above considerations, it is appropriate to consider whether the aid is compatible with the internal market in the form of State aid within the meaning of Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, as well as with the internal market in the form of State aid within the meaning of Article 107(3)(c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, it is appropriate to provide for State aid in the form of aid under Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (‘the EEA Agreement’), in accordance with Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in particular Article 10(3) of the Treaty on the Treaty on the Functioning of the Functioning of the European Union, I think this is how this law is conceived is much more humane, nothing revolutionary anyone will say, but we have a whole series of important newspapers. The second thing is how this will apply in practice because there are different cases. And finally once again, privatizing that institution in no way would be human in my court, it wouldn't be human even though sometimes the state is clearly insolent, it might even come out to protect itself with these pillars of shame, etc. Nothing will change overnight, but the spirit of this law certainly needs to be supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15325	Thank you very much. Next is the HDZ club and respected representative Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15326	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So here, before I move on to the debate on this set of executive laws, so the Act of Conduct, the Law of conduct on money and the abolition of laws which, on public enforcement and public enforcement fees, were to come into effect. I would first ask the question and the deputy ministers, but also to you colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives and parliamentary representatives, do you all think that this Croatian Parliament should pass laws that are in line with the strategic documents that also adopted this Croatian Parliament. I think the seriousness of this House and this body is that if it adopts a strategic document, then it behaves in accordance with strategic guidelines and makes laws accordingly. I will remind you that the Croatian Parliament adopted a strategy for judicial reform in December for the period from 2011 to 2015 in December 2010, a large majority of votes. The strategic document under point 2, 3 reads: "The establishment of a new system of enforcement, judicial decisions through public perpetrators." The development of Guideline 2, 3 states: "The inefficient system of enforcement is the main reason for the ineffectiveness of the judiciary and the source of legal uncertainty. With radical reform of the system, Croatia has decided to address these problems. This reform includes the transfer of enforcement from courts to public enforcement officers under the supervision of courts. This will significantly increase the rate of success of forced enforcement of court decisions, while also significantly reducing the inflow of court cases. The procedure itself with the same objectives has been improved in parallel. In the next period it is necessary to create all necessary conditions for the full implementation of this system." So says the strategic document adopted by this Croatian Parliament, and here we are today with a bill that says something quite, quite the opposite. Thus, it fully introduces, abolishes or does not allow for the application of what is outlined in the strategic document and proposes a completely different principle of enforcement. What about this one? We are discussing this bill and we are discussing the issue of the system of conduct now for the fourth time in this term, because it has been said to have been postponed twice. But this law that hasn't even applied so far has changed one, two, three, four, five times. We've delayed something, we've corrected some of the awkwardness in the amendments and the additions of the law mostly here's what we've debated four times already. I'll look back on this bill. Therefore, the Deputy Minister says that this law is now based on Council of Europe guidelines for better implementation of the existing Council of Europe recommendations on the enforcement procedure. I recall that Spež, or the European Commission, for the effectiveness of the judiciary, adopted these guidelines in 2009 and that the Executive Law and all by following the 2010 laws also called for these guidelines and also fully satisfied them. The question is what happened and on that day we didn't get an adequate answer, the day today we didn't get an analysis. Through our first reading, we asked the Ministry of Justice to give us some figures, some statistics on the executive procedure, whether the number of unsolved tasks is growing, falling, which is efficiency, etc. But here we are again, we didn't get that. So we still don't know what the real reason is because by reading the reasoning of the 2010 law and the reasoning of the law here is this which is before us they are almost identical. The objectives and purpose for which these laws are adopted are identical. So, everyone wants a quick, efficient performance as one of the conditions of an effective and effective judiciary, of course, because the procedure for a citizen is completed when the procedure of the exercise is completed and not when the stamp of the performance and the solution of the execution is broken, but when the actual enforcement is carried out, when that citizen gets his money or his own thing that he has done or the right to do so. So, what we're saying now, here's colleague Caine, I'm sorry he left because he's been reading all the cases of the exception from the execution on the money, but then he probably skipped out on an execution from the motions, so that the movables can't be seized and the real estates can't be seized. It also says this law, but it's nothing revolutionary because it's the same as what the Executive Act is saying now, it's the same thing in the same text as the 2010 law that's not allowed to apply. Just as it was talked about here and the sheriffs who are going to break into the apartment, and the Committee on Conflict of Interest that's going to break into the apartment. I'm telling you that no one without a court order can break into anyone's apartment, and all that is said by some MPs would be the sheriffs that they scoldly call public contractors and service public enforcement all that they could under the 2010 law can now be a court enforcer. The court executive is a court officer with medium professional training without the intention of underestimating anyone, fulfilling the conditions laid down by his law today. The public executive under the Law on Public Executors is a person with a law degree, with a legal examination and with a public executive exam, with a sworn oath sworn to respect the Constitution, the Law, the legal order, the regulations of the Republic of Croatia. Why would one court executive today believe more than a public enforcement officer, who had the prescribed, highly controlled systems and systems of control over his work through courts, the Ministry of Justice, but also, of course, through a public enforcement chamber that had the authority and the duty to oversee their work. They say there are some MPs that are not allowed and that there will be no, that there can be no privatisation of the mission. But I remind you that some of the work is done today by the public notebooks, and there is no problem with privatisation. Why is it said in this explanation somewhere I read that public notebooks have proven their high degree of professionalism, etc.? I agree, but why do you give it up in advance to public contractors who have not even been allowed to show it? I don't understand what double standards these are. We forget that privatisation is also done through public commissioners. So, public commissioners store goods, they can sell them, it's a problem that public contractors would be charged out of the budget. And public commissioners are charged from those things they have on them for sale and first they charge their own cost. How do public commissioners get to work? So that the Chamber of Commerce can open a tender and trust them with the job. Equally, the public notebooks conduct auctions when the court leaves it to them. Therefore, there are privatisations in the case, but it is symptomatic that only some relationships and disclosures are being made, and I don't know what to call them, they're actually called ugly names. And I don't know what those people deserve. I'm also talking about the seriousness of the state because when someone takes power, it doesn't mean there's a revolution and it starts all that day. This country has called some people with the authority of the state, invested money in their preparation for a particular service that was promised, not promised, but legally guaranteed to do these jobs and then change power and say overnight, but literally overnight, there's nothing. I hear he's hitting on me from the bench that it's some HDZ, right on the left side of the SDP. Public perpetrators were elected by the basis of a public tender, the justice minister chose them. As well as colleagues and colleagues, as well as public notebooks. There's a competition for the public notaries, and the minister's calling them. And so will this minister and the SDP and the HDZ, and whatever the conditions prescribed by the law will be. But here's to getting back to something else. I am pleased that the Ministry of Justice has given up on those charges with millions as much as it would cost the citizens, as simple as it would be because it is not true and simple because there are exact calculations, but exact ones, for example, on real estate, on movable property and on money, counting on the fees of lawyers, counting on court fees and counting on public enforcement fees to in all cases, except the payment on claims of up to a thousand kunas, this proposed procedure in the current fees would be more expensive than public charges. And I agree that it was also meant to be fixed in a way that corrected these fees, in order for citizens to be more tolerated. It's said here, of course I won't talk about the agency's cash claims business, it's proved to be a good model since 2010. Here it is now two years in use, and I agree that in the implementation it was I would say simply the schlamperaj in the agency that carried it out because everything could be regulated by the applicable laws so that there was no implementation of those means that were excluded from the exercise, but here we changed the law and somehow it was settled. He says that this law balances the rights of the executive to the achievement of the demand and the rights of the perpetrators to the protection of dignity. I claim that this text of the law has absolutely no provision which is different from the protection of the perpetrators compared to the proposed 2010 Law. Absolutely none. All that says how a public contractor can do it, when he can do it equally now says that a judicial perpetrator can do it at the same time and in the same way and that he can enter into the apartment and that is excluded from the exercise. What is a good newspaper of this law, I welcome, is certainly this introduction of an extrajudicial exercise, so direct payments for executive documents, executive decisions and domestic court settlements that no further enforcement proceedings need to be conducted before the court. And I think it's really going to shorten this process. What's dubious, for me, is that it's a new determination of the actual jurisdiction that has the arguments pro and vice versa. So pro arguments are certainly a specialization in performances so that the executions are only carried out in municipal courts so the judges can specialize. Of course, there is no need to calculate with new special Executive Courts because the creation of special courts alone does not contribute to efficiency. But the question is whether it's wise at this point when the lagging objects in municipal courts are so much, and some commercial courts are very up-to-date, so there's an exception of, of course, Zagreb which is not, but some smaller commercial courts are really up-to-date, and in the same places, municipal courts have huge backlogs of unsolved cases, so I doubt how effective it will be to keep them busy, and those who are so up-to-date. Also what I think, the Deputy Minister said, I don't think it's a good thing and it's going to help something, and that's that it's now a mandatory presence of a real estate executive, that's how the Deputy Minister said she would then be present as an executive, and then she'll immediately see what real estates are because they can be calmed down or not have to settle down. So now imagine any executive who will go to those assignments on the lists, lecturings, etc. Of course not. This is another part of the process that will, of course, collect the process and engage a large, large number of lawyers in these affairs. And how with great executives, of course, because some big systems won't be able to be present for any of this and they'll hire lawyers. Likewise, they will leave and hire lawyers for further collection of the procedure. So I'm not sure that's a good thing. Therefore, the envisaged 2010 law was also the role of the public enforcement officer to record the status of the debtor to propose both to him and to the believer that they agreed on the subject of an application that would be least painful for the debtor and most effective and meaningful for the believer. Now it's put on the back of the executive who, as I said, will of course have to hire someone to do it for him. I would only warn, and this may be answered by the Deputy Minister in the case when the perpetrator is not present, then in that article I do not remember which article, but it is predicted that there must be two witnesses or a public notary. In the case of a natural person, in the case of a legal person and then in the case of a legal person, if it is not present, if it is broken or violently entered into the premises of a legal person that it must be two witnesses, so I do not know whether it is intentional or accidentally omitted in that paragraph or a public notary. That's what I'd like to ask you to answer. And in the end, I would say that this law is actually before us a law that is now in force. The same law that we went to change in 2010 because the results of the implementation were not good and we wanted to make them more efficient and efficient by introducing a new system. That's what we got the green light on then, and we promised the European Commission that we would do it exactly like that. So we closed chapter 23. Of course, it's not St. The letter and the European Commission will and will not have to be public enforcement systems, so it will also agree to this system if it is proved effective. But unfortunately, during these years and those years before, we have no indication that anything would go better in the performances, although the lagging executives are piling up from year to year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15327	Thank you, too, Your Honor. A replica of respected representative Branko Vuksic has been reported to your presentation. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15328	Ms Ana Lovrin's distinguished representative mentioned the termination of the Law on Public Executives in the context of the revolution. So now the question is, will the termination of that law mark the beginning of some kind of revolution? Mrs. Lovrin said the law was passed by the authority of the state. There is no intention of me on my right hand that side of the assembly which you yourself know that I am very critical of them but I think it is so that it has the right to and with the authority of the state to break the law which the ruling party or the ruling coalition considers that this law is not good and that it is not only good that I agree with them but this decision is actually going to the hands of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. For what? Because I trust the state far more and even more as the Croatian state is, the state institutions of the bad as they are, it seems to me that they are far more prone to Croatian citizens than individuals who have generally spoken in the name of the club rich at the expense of Croatian citizens. This would again be one privileged caste such as the public notebooks as well as all the other castes that are legal in the Croatian Parliament and which I think we should talk about tomorrow. So I don't think this is the beginning of a revolution, it would be good if something were to happen revolutionaryly in Croatia, however, this is not the beginning of a revolution, as the authority of the state passed this law and the authority of this House as much as it enjoys it and abolishes it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15329	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15330	A colleague of mine said a lot of things, so I'll try it like this. So I first warned that this law was passed contrary to the strategy adopted by this Croatian Parliament. Second, of course, the ruling majority can because it has enough hands to change that law only oddly how that opinion has suddenly changed. Maybe the key is what you said was that some of them were rich and I wouldn't call it those people are doing their job fairly, but maybe that cake would be divided into a few more subjects, and then it didn't really fit everyone maybe it's the key, too. But I'd like to tell you something else. Why do we always view the performance as some kind of violence against a poor little man who is being preyed on by a bed and a television set? First bed and TV must not be seized under the executive law. Secondly, why don't we observe the Executive Act that someone is obliged not to settle their obligation, has money and won't pay the debtor. You've ever had or seen or heard of people being guaranteed to be persecuted by the bank and that they're asking for their claim from a man who lives neatly in that big apartment that he bought or in the big car that he bought, and the other one to whom he's obliged can't rest just because this one escapes through all these institutes and abuses the law. So that's how we look at it. The exercise is a forced charge of something that the court or other body has determined must be paid, so no one is taken away. For social sensitivity and I repeat through this law and through the current law and through the proposed 2010 law, certain movables and monetary incomes are therefore protected precisely in order to protect this poorest layer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15331	So we could conclude, both revolution and evolution are going in the ultimate directions. Okay. Notice. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament expired at 10.54 hours for the application of the debate for 10 minutes on these four final drafts of the law. On behalf of the HSU Club, the esteemed representative, Željko Schamper. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15332	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The current Executive Law has been quite permissive and indeterminate, and its application has led to unpleasant surprises by citizens, especially pensioners. We can think about it when a small pension comes to an end. The law on the implementation of the financial implementation was adopted for the purpose of regulating payment transactions on the basis of the decision on the performance. The law was adopted to enable the effective implementation of the implementation of the implementation on the debtor's money. Often a large number of executions are also the pensioners who pay the most intensely for their obligations, i.e. the payment of monthly directors or the war of credit, but in practice something bad is happening. It is known to all of us that the execution could be done on 1/3 of the income, but it is always from some examples that it has not happened. Therefore, as another precautionary measure, it was the opening of a security account where there should have been an asset that was not subject to the tasks remaining for life. Now this article 173 explains in detail. As a result, I was surprised to hear a letter from a pensioner who, since 2900 kuna, had only 75 kuna left in the account, although she had an open security account. There are two clarifications to explain this situation. One thing is that according to the 2010 Executive Act, pensioners who had raised their credit before 17 August 2010 and signed their consent on the seizure of the total amount of pension if they were paying their credit rates irregularly. In that case, the consent to which the debt was tightened from the entire pension was activated, regardless of the protection account being opened. So the debtor had no minimum means to live. The second clarification stems from the problem we often discuss, which is the information decoupling and poor use of information technology. I've been a pioneer of IT in the Republic of Croatia since the early 1970s, I've done my entire working life in IT. That's why it's amazing that after 40 years, there's still paperwork being sent between the two state institutions through mail. This happens in the exchange of data between the Financial Agency and public authorities such as HZMO, HZZO and other institutions. The result of such work is to pay because it has not yet received the information, to pay for a pension that is excluded from the performance to a regular account that is to be executed, where only the fine remains after the application. In view of such cases, it is now proposed to electronicly connect the financial agency and the executive bodies in order to ensure data on the debtor and the type of demand, and in order to exclude the payment of the remuneration from the implementation to the regular account of the perpetrators and their payments to the special protection account of the debtor. One of the problems was also mentioned by the Croatian Consumer Protection Association, which is the problem of legal uncertainty of citizens when after two failed deliveries, the executive proposal ends up on the court's advertising board and becomes powerful in eight days. So the debtor does not have the possibility of objecting to antiquity, and perhaps in the meantime he has paid his commitment. So they found out about it when they had already lost their money. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. There's no mention of any individuals who haven't paid for their demand. It should be specified that a natural person, a citizen, must receive an executive proposal with his signature or signature of a full-time member of the joint household. This would prevent the execution without the knowledge of the perpetrators, while obtaining legal certainty for the citizens. In order to address the problem of performance on pensioners' accounts, there should also be an amendment to the pension income notice that pensioners receive from HZMO. On that notice, the pensioner should know the structure of the suspension of part of the pension, whether it is the payment of his loan, whether it is the payment of someone's loan for which he was guaranteed or whether it is part of the pension because he has not paid a TV subscription or one of the directors. I hope so, and I want to believe that this new executive law will no longer put citizens in an awkward situation, especially in retirement as it has been so far. HSU will support this set of laws that should introduce more order and improve this problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15333	Thank you, Your Honor. The HDSSB club and two representatives, first respected representative Josip Salapic and then respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15334	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have four sets of legal laws ahead of us. We already talked about these laws in the Croatian Parliament, this is just the finish for that job and the debate that we have already done and which we need to do. What is important to highlight in the Executive Act, in this final proposal and final debate, this law is one of those unpopular laws in Croatia and certainly will not do anyone any good, it will not be like that law we discussed last week about opening new companies for 10 kn, about new business ventures, about something that will start an economic environment, a new investment swing in Croatia and new jobs. That all of this is reflected in these laws and cases, I guess it is clear to everyone if a firm economic framework is not created, if there is no job and employment, if there is no regular salary payment, if the employer does not meet all the obligations towards the worker will not help even the employer's confirmation that the salary is not paid because there are other instruments to avoid this obligation. Unfortunately, what we need to determine and we can all look ourselves in the eye that the economic situation in Croatia is still not good and that government programme announced in the pre-election campaign in order to really be the programme of some new change in Croatia. All segments and frameworks of society should be met, and the most important economic swing, the new jobs then we would not talk about such problems that people can't pay RTV fee of 80 kuna, that Croatian peoples, workers, don't get their salaries, that pensioners are in such a position as the HSU club talked about the height of pensions and the performance of pensioners. It is sad and pathetic and Croatia is in one situation, unfortunately, one step ahead of the entry into the European Union, but it is still economically weak and economically on its knees and the question is that our entry into the European Union next year will be about the general satisfaction of Croatian citizens, Croatian people and people who, unfortunately, today, when we talk about this set of laws have nothing to live on. What we have done so far, and this bill, as we have said in those last discussions, is abolishing public enforcement services and public executioners. We believe that we have done ourselves a bear service here unnecessarily, which is that many of us in this House in the 6th meeting of the Croatian Parliament fulfilled our obligations to conclude negotiations for Croatia's entry into the European Union, Chapter 23, when we introduced public executives. At that time, we said that public perpetrators would unload Croatian courts, that in municipal trade courts, the number of cases would be reduced, that the courts were overloaded, that the system burdened the Croatian judiciary and that the Croatian judiciary was not economical and up-to-date in the exercise of the duties and powers of judges. We have brought into an unpleasant position, above all, people who, based on a decision of the Croatian Parliament with 108 votes for when we passed the law that was found in some life and bypasses and environments that they were leaving jobs, that they had passed professional exams, that they had invested all their knowledge and abilities in this as we say unpopular duty, which is a public executive service. We wouldn't agree that we weren't in the same framework then and we discussed it. But we brought it together this way. If I don't think that's necessary today, we don't need it, but we didn't need that one decision that wasn't right back then. Then we would not put ourselves in a situation and embarrass ourselves in front of the European Commission and explain why we were then in favour, and now we are against it. What is good in this Implementing Proposal is that this procedure of direct payments through the FINA Financial Agency will be accelerated to avoid undue delaying the court proceedings in that subsequent court proceedings when the court order, or the decision taken, must be forced to charge as much as possible to increase the costs of the proceedings. Therefore, the out-of-court enforcement through the Financial Agency will surely speed up the procedure and bring about the essence of the Executive Act itself. And what's a little bit surprising is the reports and information coming from FINA. FINA last year in this task of performance tasks received by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Justice and the amendments to the law did not make a profit but achieved a loss. And according to the new director of FINA's interview, FINA is still losing by these procedures, and will achieve it by the end of this year when this law is passed somewhere on October 15th. So by the end of the year maybe FINA will be at some positive zero. Is it necessary if this really accelerated the procedure it is to welcome, and whether it was necessary to burden the FINA so much with other state-owned system institutions that we have for the FIN based on these powers it had received, and the data that from the FINA report came that about 64% of the cases of enforcement were unsolved which in figures somewhere around 750,000 of the outstanding executive cases. It is certain, therefore, that these new powers and under this bill will finally burden FINA and it is certain that there will be costs for FINA regardless of the experience and tradition of FINA's operating costs will increase. Then there will be new employment in FINA. We don't know that now, but something will probably have to be done in order to, therefore, if something is entrusted to the Financial Agency in order to make it a profit. So far, that's not the information we're getting. As far as other state systems are concerned, it is necessary to consider whether any of the state-owned companies can be involved in this effective implementation of the Implementing Law. The delivery of executive orders through the Croatian Post Office was mentioned here. There's an important fact to point out. It is not a matter of delivery and work of the Croatian Post Office but of whether the person found at home received an executive order or not. The mail must have done its job. It's a delivery notice. I worked alone in the mail system, I know how much trouble there was when these executive orders and court orders were to be delivered and so on. Croatian mail is a system with 11000 employees. Shall we bring... These jobs to Croatia by introducing an electronic delivery solution, the job of the Croatian Post Office, which is also a state-run system that employs people, gives salaries to workers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We should remind ourselves, perhaps many do not know that more than 4,000 postmen go out to the field daily in Croatia and do their job. Are we going to go over that system with some solutions? We don't really know that. As regards the shortening of the procedure, the discharging of courts should, in any event, be subject to this Implementing Law when it enters into force. So, do it. As for socially sensitive categories, it is saddened to hear that there are 250,000 blocked accounts of Croatian citizens. It is unfortunate that more than 1200 houses are for sale in Croatia, and unfortunately this executive law cannot prevent it, but the executive law must be in the process that everything that was forced to pay to be charged. What we have to do, and I will reiterate that is to create if the Government of the Programmes announced that there will be a new economic momentum in Croatia, then all issues should be closed, the issue of the economy will be smaller. As far as the HDSSB Club is concerned, this Implementing Law will be abstentioned because we believe that what is theoretically written in the law that is before us should be feasible in practice. But seeing that FINA has not quite achieved financial gains and that many of the procedures and citizens are in worse problems in terms of performance, we feel that this law that is ahead of us needs to be well promoted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15335	Thank you. In the name of the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Zoran Vinkovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15336	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Not to repeat, as my colleague Salapic said, I'm going to start this short exposure with one historical fact. The ancient philosopher Herakli, crossing the river, found that he could not stand with his foot in the same water and said that everything was flowing, everything was changing, only the change was. We have many, and with us, the change is that every rule of any law that passes declares revolutionary, declares it also a revolution and evolution, Mr. President of the Parliament, but the fact is that only a few laws that have been passed in this House have indeed been revolutionary and several decisions. First of all, I mean breaking up those constitutional and legal ties or having to do with the former socialist, federalist, or what was already called Yugoslavia, or large Serbia. And I'm going to start this exhibit with an anecdote. Many today view certain soap operas, especially these Turkish ones, and this anecdotes enough about the state of Croatia, which is largely covered by this set of laws on performances. And so for those who follow Suleiman the Great, Suleiman looks at the map and says, "Now it's Croatia's turn. Let's see what it says about this Croatia." He says, 350 thousand unemployed, almost a million pensioners who barely survive, internal and external debt over 100 billion euros. Brazil and Argentina went bankrupt when they had about $90 billion in debt. He says, "Ibrahim, stop the army because whoever wins this is in big trouble.", not to mention in this honorable House what was written on that note. And it really really describes the situation in the Republic of Croatia and what it is about this executive law, and it is also about the situation in which our economy is located, not only the citizens, that there is a huge debt here, so the state itself, the competent ministries towards the performers of certain capital investments, the debt to those who are bound by both the decisions and the laws of the Assembly to carry out certain services, that is, the legal services that are tied up. So the question is, I would also say debt slavery, according to a state itself that does not pay a variety of performers who thus bring themselves under this executive law, which you believe no one will ask them why they are in charge of suppliers, according to the cooperatives. Well, it was the famous case of a company in Slavonia that was involved in the production of parquets where exactly the competent ministry didn't pay the lead performer, and the lead performer didn't pay that co-operant who was making an extremely high-quality parquet for the sports hall. It was the state that immediately charged its debt by sitting at the expense of this particular subcontractor. Even though she owed it to herself. This is certainly also the issue of these huge tax debts, including many public companies owned and owned by the majority of the Republic of Croatia or one large part of that share of the equity shares sold to fill and patch up budget gaps over the past 20 years. But what happens to these big companies, will this law apply to them too? They won't, and they don't need to get the citizens out of here from this pay phone in this House to make it clear. This law is not written for large public companies that are in dubiosis, it is not written for their administrations, they will not be covered by the Executive Law, they will be referred to as what we will have here in the Parliament or the Government of the Republic of Croatia very soon, that we will approve, for example. a new debt to HEP, regardless of the increase in electricity prices, whatever the HEP is inefficient, regardless of what is required to increase by 37% for heating. It is not necessary to ignore the summer increase in gas that has also gone 32% and whose consequences of this gathering will now be felt by citizens because over the summer no one at these temperatures, and especially us in Slavonia where we have had an elementary accident, in any case did not light the heat to warm up to +40 of their home. There is also a constant increase in fuel, a constant decline in living standards, a steady increase in prices and citizens no matter how much someone convinced them that they will live better in this Croatia, worse and worse alive, and that consumer basket has an increasing and higher value of survival baskets, not for the life of a normal and worthy man as it is still written in the Croatian Constitution that everyone has the right to live a decent man, but also the right to work, are forced to go in various ways of survival that ultimately lead to the consequences of this law. And someone said this isn't about bed and TV, this is about the facilities they live in, this is about everything that's about them and their families. There is a question, first of all, of the citizens themselves who will be left without their real estate, the movement because in any case they do not have enough pay, I don't mean the pay, I don't mean the ministerial salary, I mean those salaries of the average Croatian worker, Croatian peasant, Croatian citizen, I generally say that you don't think that I don't mean people, and I can't because I'm not sure that you would be in a position to argue if you said it was a gentler sex, but I am speaking generally about citizens regardless of nationality, religion, sex, age, worse and worse living, but citizens are in charge of surviving from month to month, to allow their children to buy books for school, to buy clothes, shoes eventually to eat. And given the state of our economy and the measures that are being taken then it is really visible that instead of going towards the standard of highly developed European countries at the moment we are located somewhere far, far from in the Middle but in the Far East. All of this justifies fear. And I'm going to mention another example of not paying the workers. These days, you have in the papers that certain entrepreneurs were not only in HDZ but also in the SDP carrying and financing the campaign while not paying six to nine months' wages to workers. In HDZ, it was a little more non-transparent, so they didn't even get confirmation because it went through the gyro, but the thing is, in fact, identical. So what was with the applicable law then that someone who hasn't paid their wages to the workers at 6 or 9 months can finance the political campaign of the political side? And it is justified that this law will be effective on ordinary people, on small citizens and will not be effective on big players, and that this is neither revolution nor evolution, but this is above all that the hills were shaking and there will not be a mouse born, but will live in Croatia in a way that has so far lived with a constant decline in standards with a steady decline in industrial activity with a steady decline in production, with an increase in imports and a reduction in exports. After all, I would not want what is happening here in Croatia at this time in a country such as Greece, such as those countries which, for the same reason, not for religious or religious reasons, have at this time a revolution. It's just a question of which of us sitting here or there in that building across the street will have the strength but also have the cheek and come out to those citizens. I'll finish with Suleiman. He introduced a 10% hack and I'm asking the rulings what is a 25% VAT?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15337	It is next to the HNS club and the distinguished representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15338	Dear Vice President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So the HNS club supports the adoption of all these four laws. We talk about the market economy all the time, and we don't behave like that in our lives. We're constantly talking about the protection of the credentials and basically when a law is proposed that truly promotes existing laws then suddenly we start crying, of course, normally populistally. We are aware that so far the state has been acting wastefully, borrowing but also ensuring that citizens are also in charge of entering obligations that are not real and that the state has definitely been guilty by its own way of working and by its populist statements and by ensuring so-called. consumption that was not real and rational. This set of laws essentially realises our country really within the framework of behaviour and citizens but there was not much talk here about entrepreneurs and individuals who carry out the activities of certain activities that this also applies to. We must protect the believers as we must take care of the debtors, especially the citizens who have the right to protection so that they do not have a seat on the part of the means that they are protected. This law basically ensures that. Electronic data exchange in order to minimise the possibility of performance, reception and compensation excluded from the application. It is also the court's jurisdiction to ensure that these procedures are properly controlled by socially sensitive purposes and the appropriate protection of the dignity of debtors and the legal certainty and transparency of these proceedings. That's clearly what it says. All confidence in the experience of previous governments is, of course, part of those statements of those who still do not trust in this country, but that is why they are not in power, because citizens have given this coalition confidence that it is right to run and enforce its laws and to run what is called a better but also legal certainty. We have to repeat, on behalf of the HNS Club, the fundamental facts of this package of laws are often lost. The system of out-of-court enforcement in order to collect cash demand shall apply the provisions of the Act on the implementation of the budget implementation through the financial agency in the preceding year of application has shown exceptional effectiveness and the possibility of achieving the objectives of discharging the courts, simplification, economicalisation, acceleration and effectiveness of the enforcement procedure in cash claims as too difficult in the search structure. So it has already been shown and proved that this is a much more efficient and efficient system and way through the financial agency. Also by introducing an out-of-court exercise for executive documents and executive decisions and agreements of the national court or of the administrative authority which are to meet a certain monetary obligation and which have a certificate of enforcement and for the confirmation of employers of the outstanding amount of salary, salary or severance fee through a certificate, solution, court decision or agreement before the court with a certificate of enforcement shall be effected by the resulting discharge of courts with the most numerous cases of enforcement over monetary claims. It is clear how we have discussed consumer protection and this segment is directly protected by citizens, i.e. workers and employees. When we talk about the public service, what I was talking about and what the ministry's position and analysis on the functioning of FINA and confirmation of the effectiveness of the work so far, it is quite clear that this authority has done a good and accurate analysis of the functioning of the system, a very sensitive system of performance and that it has made it clear to us, and I must repeat that the system of performance does not require changes that would justify the introduction of the new service, mainly referring to the costs of the procedure before the public executioner and its duration and efficiency. In particular, on behalf of the HNS Club, I would like to emphasise what is clearly stated and, on behalf of the Government, that it is considered unacceptable to carry out the performance on the remaining cases of the private executive service which is financed from these cases, because the exercise of these cases requires a higher degree of protection of debtors, because, by nature, things do not apply here to the protection of restrictions on enforcement or exemption from enforcement, as with the implementation of funds, it is necessary that such enforcement be carried out by the Court. And finally, what is crucial and clear, in the implementation and functioning of the rule of law, it is necessary to avoid the uncertainty of the duration of further proceedings through the exercise, because any delay in the exercise of a powerful and executive judicial decision is a source of legal uncertainty for creditors and debtors, as well as in general. The HNS Club will support the package of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15339	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. First respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15340	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Gjurkovic, this first part of your presentation was one promotional kukuriku speech that primarily accused this previous government which has indeed shown what led to the situation in which it is now. In fact, it is true that HDZ and their coalition are in some sense robbed of social property, but again when we look at the movements of the Kukuriku coalition that is 9-10 months in power then we actually see that now it is not the right robbery of citizens of the Republic of Croatia, starting with a 25% VAT and all that my colleague Zoran Vinkovic said. In fact, it's about laws or a set of laws that are actually a pain in the ass of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15341	Replica response, respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15342	Dear fellow, I have said that this is a continuation of the promotion of the executive law, which, of course, I accept, I admit, and that is the reality, that so far the laws of the previous government have been improving by the state. However, this is a key law so that believers can be truly protected, but also to protect the socially sensitive. The criticism of the former government, given the lack of payment of the claim, I don't know who it offends. If 51 billion kuna is something that offends someone to be told, and it shouldn't have happened, then I don't know what you actually consider to be a real insult, and what with the fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15343	The second replica, the esteemed representative of Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15344	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So you spoke to your colleague Gjurkovic about the excellent results of FINA efficiency. I agree that the Act on the implementation of the budget implementation introduced significant improvements and that FINA is doing so now, when it regulated the first technical disadvantages for good. But that's not the problem, the problem is there's no money in the accounts. So, out of a million 165, the total number of accounts accounts in 2011. Of which 414 000 or 35.6% were successfully charged, and then the problem arises because these performances that cannot be carried out by accounts because there is simply no money in the accounts, then they move on to litigation and real estate, and that's where the problem happens. You've read another line from the explanation. Just as it says in the explanation that there is less and less movemental performance because of the crisis, I would say vice versa because of the crisis there is no money on the accounts, so it reaches out to other subjects of the case, and you have read this sentence to assess the unacceptable confidence of the exercise in the remaining private executive services that are financed from the case because there is no protection of the perpetrators, so a higher degree is needed. It is absolutely incorrect and it is incorrect in its reasoning, first and foremost because certain cases are excluded from the exercise in relation to the movement, the proposal for this law is the same as the 2010 draft law and the same as those excluded by the existing, current Implementing Law and by nothing introduced any higher degree of protection of debtors now when it will be carried out under this law by judicial perpetrators than it was with regard to public perpetrators.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15345	The replica will be answered by respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15346	This government and this coalition believe that this solution will essentially be much more socially sensitive to those debtors to whom it must be done, and therefore we feel that it is necessary to abolish and essentially eliminate public perpetrators. Other related to FINA, performance and non-payment, after which there is payment from movables, i.e. real estate. Well, that was in your past law, too. I don't see what the problem is.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15347	Before we move on to an individual debate, we have a small intervention. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the word was requested by the esteemed Željko Reiner, vice president of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15348	The HDZ Club is looking for a break of 20 minutes. Namely, one claim was made in this House on the occasion of a recent replica that the whole party, that HDZ actually robbed Croatia, which is a very serious claim. It's usually thrown as one bomb, after which, of course, there's not even a representative here who said it. Therefore, we want a break so that we can show ourselves about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15349	I'm setting a break of 15 minutes. ... Here comes the hands of course. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you are on behalf of the HDSSB.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15350	Also on behalf of the HDSSB club, I'm looking for a break of 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15351	What's the reason?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15352	The reason is because our representative made that claim, so I want us at the club to take a stand on that statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15353	About the same subject. Okay, so we have a request for two clubs to take a break. Branko. No, no, Branko quit. Right? Okay. It means 15 minutes off. My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. The time has elapsed for a break requested by the clubs. First, I give the word to the HDZ club and the respected representative Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15355	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Reiner, vice president of the Croatian Parliament, asked for a break on behalf of the club because of inappropriate words from his colleague Grubisic. Today we are discussing the Executive Law, we were expecting after an insult which was made at the expense of the HDZ, Mr. Chairman, that you will react. You didn't respond, so we asked for a break. And we would pray and we would like not to use agenda points that really have nothing to do with what Mr. Grubisic said about each other's insults, about each other's attacks, because thank God we could say anything to each other and take advantage of everything that we've done to each other and the other and the third. But here we are talking today about law enforcement and laws regarding the law. He's extremely important because as far as all our citizens are concerned, he's important because he was part of harmonising with the acquis, this ruling majority has decided to change him. I think today's debate is very argumentative at a highly civilized level. Why did Mr Grubisic do what he did best, perhaps because of local elections and who knows why, but once again on behalf of HDZ, I appeal that we talk about what the subject is, that we do not insult ourselves and we would ask the presidents of the session to respond to the insults when they are brought out or to someone personally, individually or at the expense of the parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15356	Thank you, too. The word is received by the HDSSB club, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15357	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Jandroković and the gentlemen of the HDZ Club, it is not clear to me that you have reacted so spotfully to my replica which I have spoken in this Croatian Parliament, which was in connection with the topic which today is on the agenda, and these are the executions, the executive law and everything else. I'm surprised you didn't react as spotlessly as you did with the late day or more because the tails were still drawn for days when Mr Milanovic said much more serious insults and personal insults to the account and your representatives, as well as HDZ itself. What I have said, that it may also be in the correction of the HDZ summit, so as it is said, he robbed social or state property however you wish, is connected to all those affairs, with everything that is happening, with everything that is in a criminal proceedings or in a court of law and even against the very legal person who is called HDZ. And you know exactly what this is about. It is about crime and corruption, starting with INA, HEP, HAC, military trucks, Mountains, FIMI MEDIA, Osijek TV, the Croatian List and all other things which, according to some calculations, reach up to 80 billion kuna by some economic experts, almost three-quarters of the Croatian budget. Why is it about the errands? Well, because the Croatian people and Croatian citizens are such crime and corruption that I only called robbery nothing else. If it's a grudge, if it's an insult instead of a crime and corruption to say robbery, then maybe it's for you, and for me it's a synonym, same meaning and nothing else. So that's why this country collapsed. That's why we have so much work to do. That's why this people can't pay television subscription, their phone bills and everything else. For he is poor, bare to the core, to the root. And I'm not saying that all the members of HDZ are, therefore, honest little people who are from patriotism in HDZ who are also carrying the cross of all these affairs that I was talking about and who have been robbed by the Croatian people and the Croatian state. And I was also talking about the SDP that this same burden was transferred to the back, that it was you, on the back of ordinary citizens, small citizens. So, more maybe, I won't say anything to get out of here, but here we go, raise VAT, raise fuel prices, raise gas prices, raise heating prices and everything else. That's what I'm talking about. If it's not about this Act of Perpetuals, the process of performance and everything else, then I don't know why you're even looking for a break. In the end, I say again that the HDZ legal person is being prosecuted. I'm not running a lawsuit, I'm not suing you, I'm suing you, I'm suing you, I'm suing the HDSSB, I'm suing you. So here's my answer to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15358	Thank you. And now just one little short explanation, given that the distinguished representative Jandrokovic in some way called me why I didn't react. So, in my deepest conviction, the Croatian Parliament as well as any parliament is the place where it is spoken. It's sometimes spoken harshly, sometimes harshly, and sometimes I allow something and inappropriately. Ha, but this is the nature of Parliament. It is not only in the Croatian Parliament but also in other parliaments. I personally, in my past term, must have been given the most notice and punishment because I was constantly interpreted as going off the table, not holding the agenda and all because of the harsh speech. I don't mean to introduce a verbal delinquent here, please don't expect me to punish and warn the MPs for what they say. That's it. I don't know if you can accept that explanation, but it's just like that. We're continuing to discuss agenda points now. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15359	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Discussing today on the final proposal of the Executive Act, the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the implementation of the law on money, the final proposal of the Law on the termination of the law on public enforcement and on the final proposal of the Law on the termination of the Law on Public Execution Taxes, have we first and foremost asked ourselves whether today in Croatia the last hole still the believers were playing? So that's a question first. But immediately with that question, the question arises, "What about the debtors?" The condition in which debtors are located and how so far they have been executed over their assets, but the same and the fact that many families have lost almost their entire assets due to a small debt. I deeply believe that these proposed laws on our own, with the final proposal of the Executive Act, but also on the abolition of the public enforcement service, we give one answer that the creditors come to the fulfillment of their demand on the one hand, but also to preserve the dignity of the debtors and to be socially sensitive. It's something we promised, and I think we're on the right track. So, finally these bill proposals, the government keeps its pre-election promise, and told not public enforcement and public enforcement services, returning the full performance, so first of all, to the court itself, along with the agency, with the FINA, which proved to be a good charger. With the fact that we have to mention this occasion that there was a lot here at first too, I would say the open and abuse where the accounts and accounts were seized and the bills that FINA had no legal right to, but all the time, in the last few years, it's been silent, and we've been very much talking about it. So our citizens owe more than 15 billion kuna. Which is why citizens don't pay their dues and whether it's just because there's a non-discipline in payment or maybe they are sometimes, and they're not guilty of why they came into this situation. We have to remember the times, so when they didn't want to pay, those who could pay. And today, still those who have the smallest income in Croatia, and these are pensioners, they are all in all order paid. Because they pay first everything they owe to the state and other service providers they use, and then what they have left, if there's anything left to them, it's freely available to them. We are as far away as the land from such a kind of consideration and from such a civil total morality. But that one erosion of devastation of business morality began a long time ago. We now have a duty to discipline citizens, but equally discipline large debtors above all. If the exercise continues, first of all, and the judicial proceedings are such that our judiciary will function at two speeds, firstly, at 5 speeds or fastest speeds, when it comes to large believers as a seeker and a citizen who stands opposite that one large system, the first to be charged. And these same citizens when they appear in the role of believers and when their claims that seem to be small, which mean life to them, are just put aside and in the second row of waiting, then the citizens will not understand the seriousness, so these efforts that we want to make into laws first and foremost. So, what is the purpose and the proposal of all these laws, I believe that we will very quickly and adopt them, to make the execution effective, but equally so that the debtor, to protect the dignity of the debtors. A whole series of laws have also been amended, but it seems to me that there are also a few laws to be amended and that citizens would also understand their obligation as the one they are truly aware of to pay. I'll talk about banks here. It still exists in the Law on Banks and in the laws concerning their regulations. A whole series of unfair provisions that we then keep silent about as we make such laws or change them, and when it comes to it, we also listen to these debates today that each one has his own raid and his own justification. That's first of all, I think here's Mrs. Deputy, that you should seriously consider fiduciary. The Institute uses banks and, therefore, without any procedure very quickly becomes the owners of the entire property, i.e. the property, both for small and small debt. That's what it is, I would say embarrassing Croatia and what our people simply don't understand and they don't want to understand and rightly don't want to understand it. So it's an institute that has seduced many, many families. Another norm is the conclusion, when the different contracts are concluded, the most often credit agreements where, in spite of our Law on Mandatory Relations, congent norms are introduced against the law, illegal chapters where when you raise credit simply by bank, in small letters, when you sign such a contract and you're lucky you can get credit at all, and then you agree to everything because they do all the banks in Europe, and of course, and in the world it doesn't work exactly like that. If you were simply such a forbidden head of your own later, that is to say, to fit your entire assets without those protective mechanisms that are here for the first time, I would say clearly and transparently stated. What is protected, and over which objects, and over which property, in no way can there be any execution. But you should have our legal system, and I'm therefore asking the Deputy Minister to take care of these forbidden heads and that they simply can't get to the bottom of it. Because both banks and other financial institutions have to submit to our basic law, the Law on Mandatory Relations, and that these chapters should be considered because they are within our legal system about illegalities that do not produce any legal effects. What I would also like to point out in particular is that all these laws simply reduce the cost of collection and will certainly make the execution faster and cheaper for both the executive and the debtor. I'll go back to the banks, so when we had to change the law in order to say that notices should not be charged against what was illegal until then, but it was common in spite of our congenital regulations, and then it was also charged that no one was responsible for the illegal charge, although under our Penal Code, it's a criminal offence, even more like the Empire reciprocating the system, mocking us as legislators, mocking the government as legislators, and saying it's good when we're banned from warning, we're going to send notices of the same content, and we're going to charge it. I think one of these behaviors should be condemned first of all, but that kind of behavior stems from the tolerance of everything that has been done so far. I would especially like to mention here the role of our agency, the state agency's role of FINA, that it finally stopped with those fees, the blocking of the alimony accounts, the fees that the law is now and the tax changes we have also, in the meantime, the law although it was not possible to do so before but finally ended. So with these proposals of the law, we will come to the conclusion that the saga of believers and debtors is no longer like the story of beggars and sons but that the believer comes to his demand but that the debtor does not fall into debt slavery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15360	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first one was Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15361	You see, an esteemed colleague said that this law is socially sensitive and that's what we promised, and that's what the government keeps its pre-election promises of social sensitivity. Now I don't know if citizens can read, what's written in Plan 21 of the Kukurik coalition certainly wasn't that social sensitivity was an increase in VAT. It says there that VAT will reduce that this VAT has increased from 23% to 25% that this is an increase in the price of gas, electricity by 32%, heating, tolls which, regardless of whether you bought the ENC device, accumulated 12%, that social sensitivity is precisely this executive law that will not change and no revolution will lead to those structural changes being resolved in Croatia and that people in this Croatia live better. Sanader gave that guarantee card on a better life, the Kukuriku coalition gave Plan 21 that no longer and no longer matters, so what this government is doing and what laws are passed has nothing to do with this Plan 21 but has much to do with neoliberalism. And I personally hope that this law will help citizens right now because banks are not responsible for everything, it is bad authority for bad living in Croatia but that this law will avoid the possibility of removing someone's funds from the account. The citizen is not guilty because he paid a certain bill someone misimplemented and then had to conduct court proceedings in order to get his money back.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15362	Thank you. We have an answer. Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15363	This last thing you said was, and it wasn't just an accident, but it was deliberately and the entire assets were seized, or the funds from the account or from several accounts and those fees that were legally excluded from the commission. With this bill and the earlier amendments, we have said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And in addition, this new institute, or the possibility of collecting from the debtor, is therefore the most frequent relationship between workers' salaries and claims towards their employer, is made possible by confirming the employer's direct payment of his salary without talking about the changes and the Penal Code where the non-payment is a criminal offence, but this bill also ultimately operates in such a way that the citizen who owes someone but is not guilty of being a debtor because his employer did not pay him the salary now and thus stands to the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15364	Thank you. Next replica Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15365	Thank you very much. Well, here's what I want to replicate to an esteemed colleague because she said that this law is kind of much better than this previous one, and I'm going to try to put it in one relationship. I think in this relationship we have a man who owes, we have the money we need to take and the one he wants to collect from. In this regard, when we look at money, he doesn't care who takes it or how it's based on this law or the law we've heard today's termed privatized perpetrators or something else. Now that we're looking from the citizens' position, he doesn't care. He's aware he's in debt and he has to pay for it. Whether he will pay for it under that law, whether a privatized perpetrator will come to him and he will take away his television, bed, or something else, or be taken away from him by some court performer in the same or similar way. I think there's a battle between precisely those perpetrators who are called privatized and these new ones, which will most obviously be about lawyers. And when you look at those who want to collect these are mostly well-paid companies in most of the utility companies, and I've told here the story of unfounded fees that may be the largest part of all these unpaid accounts of these very small ordinary citizens, because almost every account that enters the Croatian population you have compensation for both water and various frequencies and a lot of mentioned tv tax, water, Internet etc. It's about four to five thousand kunas a year you don't even know what you're paying for, and it's turned into a good business, some of it's good and it's living. And I'm saying, in the end, citizens will have to pay for all of this regardless of the texts of the law of one or another, they don't care what money they have to slaughter through that system, so there's no word about revolutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15366	Thank you. We have an answer from Ingrid Anticevic Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15367	The intention itself and the execution of its own obligation to abolish public service and public enforcement and to return to the Court of Justice is that we want to prevent the debt industry, all of which suggested that what you made possible go towards it. It was our promise and this is what we fulfill our obligation. Namely, what's this about? Sometimes it is perfectly clear, there is demand and that is determined by the judicial means or on the basis of other authentic documents and therefore stands a debtor who is obliged to do so. This seems to be simple, but the tip is a very delicate thing and we are in complete confidence, and our legal history and experience testifys that with the highest sensitivity, especially if we have this sensitive law, we also care about the dignity of that person, the debtor. This will prevent such abuses and, on the other hand, make it possible for the believer to get his demand in the right way. But I agree with you, and this law also makes it impossible, but we'll see what kind of practice it will be, there's also a deputy minister, where these municipal charges are often directed towards the citizens in a way that requires the debt paid, an outdated debt. It is necessary to finally start working on sanctioning it as is the law and established as an institute for illegal collection. No one in Croatia has been responsible for this, and this is the most common crime lately given the crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15368	Thank you. Branko Vuksic applied for the debate next. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15369	Dear Vice President, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. It was said before that citizens were acting populistly. When someone in this House runs out of arguments, then take out a quisca, and that quisco is the concept of populism, so whatever it means, even though no one has dissipated it. It is said that the state has allowed citizens to be in debt. The state cannot forbid citizens to be in debt. As in Croatia, we cannot do without enemies, we always need enemies, but you know that sentence with such friends we do not need enemies. The banks don't blame everything, the banks act the way the state does, and how the legislator, how the government allows them. Instead, a colleague said before that they had been sending warnings and now they're telling each other. Every day here in Parliament, we can react, we can act by law, and the other fellow Members also belong to the ruling majority. The ruling majority can, if they wish, put an end to banks, interest rates, and end banks in the husband of Croatian citizens. However, even though the government has been talking for months and years about an additional tax on banks, it has not dared or agreed with them simply does not have that tax. Therefore, banks behave as they can and certainly behave according to their business, which is to take as much money out of the pockets of Croatian citizens. Earlier said, a colleague of the HDZ Lovrin spoke about the protection of the credentials. It's true, what we're in charge of should be paid. We should pay back our debts. There are countless examples when citizens in good faith were guaranteed, when citizens in good faith borrowed money from someone, but also in good faith and took credit and instead of the Croatian State, the Government, and above all this House protects and Croatian citizens according to the interest rate loans. When we asked the CNB several times to force the government to make a proposal with its authority, then force the Government and Parliament because we know the government and parliament's relationship, to start discussing the suspension of the foreign exchange clause, which was also Mr Rohatinski's last year in Opatija at a meeting of economists for the first time said that the government should consider sending a proposal and that the late-onset exchange clause began to be abolished. To this day, nothing has been done, and today those who are in charge, who have bought an apartment, not to be second, third, fourth, fifth, but to have a roof over their heads, to take care of themselves, their family, their children are forced not to pay because they have nothing to pay. True, it is necessary to protect those who have given money but should protect those who have received money, and must return it more than normal, usually in regulated countries. We let, you know how much credits have increased on Swiss, how many, 30 percent and more people have to return, they have bigger wars. Who protected these Croatian citizens? Whose citizens are they? It is not just HDZ voters, the SDP, that are Croatian citizens to be cared for. Who cares, takes care of the profits of the banks, they are released in peace, even when they play this power, when instead of warning, they send notice and charge. And then the government shuts up and says, well, they're mean and what do we do? Who protects the citizens, no one, the citizens are left with interest. A colleague used to talk about it, private contractors, or to take over the business of the state as this authority has decided, or to do so by groups of people. In the previous debate on behalf of the club, I said that, as bad a state as it is, as much as the institutions of the state do not function, they are far more subtle, more sensitive to the citizens than they are to private banks and some private groups of people who deal in business and who are the only ones who have a great profit in mind. I therefore fully agree with the legislator and support this law in this regard. When we talk about protection and trustees and those who need to repay their debts to the believers, we must bear in mind how we treat properties that have been taken from the temporary owners or, as we popularly call them, seized. There is a case in Istria where holiday homes, a group of holiday homes have been seized, a court dispute is being held that can last, speaking of their own experience, for 10, 15 and 20 years. These holiday houses are beautifully built with swimming pools that have grown into weeds, and they stand and fall. So if the state loses the court dispute, it'll have to compensate for the damage to the man she seized from those houses. If, on the other hand, she was seized by law, if a court of state obtained that court dispute then she would certainly gain far less value than she could because she had left a large, large value. Does the state think about what, how to protect that kind of wealth? Finally, this law will probably be voted on Friday, knowing the mechanisms in this Croatian Parliament. It will also be a good assumption for the human relationship with those who are in debt, but also for the believers to get their money or something else that is equivalent to money. However, if we act as we often do, as is the example set before, that someone instead of confirmation, or instead of warning, gives notice and the government remains deaf to it, then this law will be another dead letter on paper and it will be as Mr Milanović said wrinkled, never unwrapped bench will we still have one agony, and that is what we know to millions of people is under the burden of some sort of action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15370	Thank you, too. We have three replicas. The first one was Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy. A microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15371	... The state of the state is not responsible for banks, but exclusively for the government, which has allowed banks that are now in these 10 months, but for all these 20 years of Croatian democracy, that is, 22 years to do exactly what banks are doing. [[Specially enabled.]] And there are now no disputes or warnings, no notices, but the issue is that every Croatian government is dependent on these banks. Because Croatia has no opportunity, but even here we will have a law on borrowing, on loans to build and build a prison. What country are we? What country are we when we take a loan to build a prison? It's not about the big investment, it's about the investment of a very small, very symbolic one, and it's about enough that our budget isn't overcharged and loaded because we don't want to take that loan. We are talking about 50 billion euros in foreign debt, so debt in Swiss, francs, euro, dollars and I don't know which currency this Croatian state has not taken to say here in Croatia that it is living well. You're living an extremely bad life. And this law is neither socially sensitive nor will help to change the important state and standards of citizens in Croatia. On the contrary, this law will be re-hitted by small, ordinary people, by that grandmother in the student market while the great players will again be protected by public perpetrators or by any means by the court. So that an anecdote I said at the beginning of Suleiman is indeed for all these reasons although it has not happened in history but has given up the adoption of Croatia in 21. A century.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15372	Thanks, pal. Time. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15373	Dear colleague, here's the deal. Yesterday we talked about concessions, privatisation, monetization. We were actually talking about giving in other people's hands and the rest of Croatia's wealth but not just wealth but the rest of Croatia's sovereignty. In one area with the public, the first vice-president of the Croatian government said it was important in whose hands INA is. We'll find that quote. It is as if it is important in whose hands is the Croatian Post Bank. Well, now we see that it's important, because it's the MPs who say the banks rule. It's very important because capital is beginning to rule the world. So if the banks are so powerful, then we should certainly go back to not some other debate, let's just say yesterday's debate, and it should have been quite different if it had been connected to this. That's when they would see how much the obstacles to today's claims with yesterday's claims and those claims made by the representatives of this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15374	Thank you. Next replica Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15375	Thank you very much. Comrade Vuksic, this is your part of the bank exposure and a reminder of how you said they were sending, which they replaced. I'm sorry, notices that have replaced the reminders, and they are also charged, and what my colleague Ingrid Antičević Marinović was talking about are really impressive. In fact, you know, since you're following well to say internal policy, that in the last eight years profit has been earned from Croatia more than 250 billion kuna. These are more than two Croatian budgets. Furthermore, you have witnessed and passed the government has already begun to appeal, as it is called, to the banks to treat citizens differently, to be socially sensitive. This means a single appeal to a bank whose main interest is, i.e. the main business and business objective of profit or profit. Nothing. Don't, let's see some Swiss if there's anything that can be fixed, etc. Apples. And you have tools, you have laws, you have power in your hands with which you can, and the question is whether you want to or not to laugh. Or may not those who are in power go to a stricter way, a legal path towards those banks that are clearly in foreign hands. And here we are now witnessing that even these chicks that are carrying gold eggs and what the first Deputy Prime Minister says doesn't matter, so who's in charge of them. Well, it's not like that, and you can tell by the state of the citizens. And while banks are complaining about the drop in profits, keep an eye out not for business, business or income, but for 10% for last year, until then. A million citizens in the business. [[Invader Batinić: Time colleagues.]] It is a quarter of the Croatian population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15376	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15377	Dear colleague, yes, you said it might be wrong that the first vice president said it doesn't matter who manages it, he said it doesn't matter who owns the bank because the owner of the factory knows well that the owner is setting up the controls, so when the state is setting up bad managers, bad managers to ruin what's in the hands of the state and prove that the state is a bad master and that they can give it at reduced prices, sell it, turn it over to those who are interested in getting out of it a huge profit. Remember, when talking about Swiss during the former government, that's when those famous balloons wanted to save those who had credits in Swiss. They said now we're gonna get those balloons. They were balloons, test balloons trying to fool Croatian citizens. Croatian citizens continue to choke under the burden of Swiss because this government does not have the courage to deal with it either. As you said, it has all the instruments in its hands, has a firm majority and can certainly help Croatian citizens if they want to.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15378	Thank you. And the last replica, Anna Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15379	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, the honourable representative mentioned me, I don't really remember whether I used the term to protect the believers, but what I certainly believe is that this law must be ensured and that in the rule of law, it must certainly be so that the judgments of the power to be brought to an end and carried out. The Executive Law cannot address the business of banks and whether it is fair and whether it is legal for citizens. I know very well what the Swiss are because I feel it every month on my own skin, but it needs to be settled by the Law on Mandatory Relations, the Law on Credit Institutions, the Law on Banks or whatever law, and it cannot be solved by this Executive Act. And I just always mention it because all of you when you're talking you have believers in front of you like some heavy rich people who drive money away from poor people, which is not true. At times, very poor and poor people may be on the side of the believer, and they will struggle hard to reach their means and those who may have been illegally executed and taken from them. You've still advocated the privatisation of this mission because you say the state is more subtle, that it has more sensitivity. I don't know why nobody bothers in the current text of the law that, for example, the sale hearing is being held in front of an individual judge, but the court may conclude that the sale of that hearing can be entrusted to a public notary. Why don't you mind selling real estate, for example? A public notary, and it would be terrible if a public contractor were to do something about it? No one's bothered by a public commissioner, but everyone's a terrible public contractor. So what I'm saying is there's an irrational fear coming out and there's a group of people going around. And something else if the state is so sensitized
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15380	It's time, co-worker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15381	Just one more sentence. counterpart Anticevic said that so far many families have ended up without property because of a small debt. So who's been doing it so far? Well, the court and the bailiff worked because the law that provides for public enforcement is not in practice at all until today.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15382	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Comrade Vuksic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15383	Well, dear fellow, yes, you're right. I'm bothered by the overworked role of public notebooks. I thought I'd talk about it. Here's a thank you for this replica. It bothers me and I'm absolutely certain it's one of the black holes of this law and I've talked about the notebooks several times, about an artificially created clan that is often rich in the expense of Croatian citizens. Yes, we need to protect the believers. I'm sure of it. And they gave someone money and they need money to get that money back. However, if the state had been more just, if it had been just, social in all aspects of it then certainly wouldn't have been as much of an execution as it is today, there wouldn't have been a million and 500 thousand executions, it would have been far less. Because if there weren't any Swissmen, there'd be far less to do, if there weren't no loan loans far less to do. It's also a matter of state failure. There are wealthy believers, and there are poor believers, and you're right about that, colleagues. One of the rich credentials when I spoke to the Polish ambassador at the time said that their billing for a TV subscription was about 50%. I think that in Croatia the charge may be not 100%, but 98%. For what? Because the state is fast when it comes to great, powerful believers. When it comes to small believers who are powerless, who are not influenced, then the state does not react.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15384	Thank you. Next up for debate, Jadranka Kosor. She's gone. She's losing her right to argue. This is what we've exhausted the defendants for the hearing. Deputy Minister, please be final.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15385	Thank you very much. So let me just take a quick look at the debate. I wouldn't agree with this law not doing any good. The execution is a difficult procedure, and that's why it's so normized and arranged. It is not a problem, that we who have applied laws in practice know very well, it is not a problem that the law is extensive and that there are many articles. In fact, we're afraid of laws that don't write anything and don't have a lot of articles. What is explained in the provisions of the law will find its application, and the application will be aware that we are coming out of a period of avoidance or delay in paying debts. It's a fact that follows us and even figures out in the data. We talked about the missing data on FINA which has received a total of 2 million 266 thousand 885 payment bases since 1 January 2011. And the total of these bases is in debt of 97 billion 312 million 978 thousand 653 kuna. These billions were created because the claims were not paid, and we developed mechanisms that would result in such debts being reduced by this law or by an upgrade of the Law on the implementation of the law on monetary assets. One reason for stalling or evading the bill was the issue of delivery mentioned here and the question of the ad panel. In accordance with Article 21 of this proposed Implementing Act, the provisions of the Law on Procedural Procedure shall be subject to a subsidiarity procedure here. We arranged the litigation procedure, i.e. it was novembered in 2008 so much that the provision on the delivery of letters on the advertisement board was introduced, and it was the result of persistent avoidance of deliveries and it was something that the judiciary had been struggling with for a very long time, and it was something that triggered very large delays and delays in the proceedings. We found a mechanism called an ad board, and now it shows in practice big problems that really concern now something that comes out of the justice framework, and it comes down to parties applying to places where they don't live, because of travel costs or who else. This law will not resolve this, but will subsidically apply the CAP and delivery will be executed on the advertising board, as this is the only way that the legal system will start working in this direction. We mentioned the employer's reckoning, he's not a revolutionary provision. The employer's accounting exists as an executive document in the Labour Act. What we've changed is that we've made it possible for the pay to be paid directly and if we talk about the crime and the case that it's going to be a felony if the employer doesn't have the funds in his account. Well, that's exactly what we've made possible, direct payment, if there's funds in the account, the worker will be charged directly. In this respect, it is an improvement in this provision, i.e. it adds a new value to the system. We were talking about selling the house, houses can't be sold to collect small claims, or they can't be sold above what we've just determined, one half of the value. And if we're talking about the justice reform strategy and what we've drawn. We have negotiated with the Commission a change of what has been decided on public perpetrators, and the strategy remains the same, because one is the goal and the other are the instruments to achieve these objectives. Better instruments for achieving rapid, effective and accessible enforcement with protection of the dignity of the debtors are in addition to the Law on the implementation of the law on monetary assets, not in the introduction of a private-public executive service. It is not the same whether the execution is carried out by a private-public executive or by a court executive. Because it is a private-public contractor who is directly financed from a store that determines the scope and number itself, and which he conducts. Therefore, his salary and his income depend on how many shops and how he conducts the operation. We can't just like they said now appeal to banks to be rational or to be a little bit, to generate less costs. We also cannot appeal to public contractors because they are being financed from this activity, i.e. they were to be financed. So if we're looking from a citizen's position, it's a very big difference, and we can even talk about numbers. Here, if we just come down to the FINA public-book solutions since 01.01.2012, so that we haven't expanded and now give up the Law on Public Executives, they would start working 01.01. They would take over the implementation of the exercise on the basis of public-book solutions. These public-mark solutions since 01.01. To date, only FINA received 38 562, including total claims of 2 348 387 133 kuna, if divided by the number of bases, means an average demand is 6100 kuna. If for these 6100 kuna we add a public-executive cost of a minimum of 1000 kuna and it would be a minimum of 1000 kuna, then this new income for public contractors, or a new cost for citizens, would be 380 526 000 kuna and that is something that is a very big difference. And that's something we wanted to avoid because we think that the execution shouldn't be more expensive in that sense. And that is for those who will assume that the perpetrator would go into action at all, and that is to say, later on, the debtor who would have to pay for it. We were talking about public records. Of course, we can't intervene to that extent in the law right now, but just so we don't create new costs and simplify the procedure. We've given up on public contractors, even though we've shortened the implementation phase on cash for a part that's also freed from costs, they're gone. And I think that we have significantly improved the system to the extent that this will certainly show in the next period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15386	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. The first one was Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15387	Dear Deputy Minister, not to repeat what I said in the debate, I stand behind all this, is this law not a revolution and is not socially sensitive, as the exercise itself is not socially sensitive. However, I will attach myself to these costs that you mention, but regarding the biggest problem of this law, which I believe should be marked as European law. Given that such a law should be in line with the European acquis. Obviously this law isn't. And it will be brought to the conclusion that what I have said, that this law will once again please only those who should be favoured and who have been favored in all these 22 years, and there will be no relief for ordinary workers, peasants, pensioners. And whether or not the costs of the execution are reduced, when it's done anyway, there's nothing to pay from, so this will be another blow to him. Something about the expenses themselves. A few months or a year ago, a Law on Courtships was adopted in this House, so now that the public executioner is being replaced by a practically public notary, given the overcrowding of courts. I hope then that the citizens of Djakova will not have to travel to court to Nashica. Because between Djakov and Nash, except for the road that's in pretty bad shape, which hasn't been invested in for almost 30 years, and the state road. Here I call on the Croatian Roads to do something about it, will go to this domestic public notary, and the Court itself, I demand the Ministry to understand what injustice has been done since there is more space and greater court, and so that citizens without bus, without railways, would not have to walk from Djakov to Nasic, and even on top.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15388	Thank you, time. The next replica of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15389	Dear Deputy Minister. I understand your position, defend and speak about one segment of the legislative solution to the problem that exists in Croatia. The job of our MPs is to remember, remember other lawmakers and problems that the citizens of this country face, so when you mentioned the problem of delivering executive orders. In this debate, I did not take you to defend those who had reported false residences or those who refused to receive an executive order but several hundred thousand citizens of this country who did not even try to deliver an executive order but went directly to the court’s advertising board by avoiding or lyingly trying to deliver and personally I had the opportunity to see the note tried delivery Sunday morning at 7 a.m. no one opened the door. That sentence was enough for the second round to go to the court's advertising board. Of course no one knocked on that debtor's door on Sunday at 7:00. The residence law is on the Parliament's agenda. We'll settle the fake addresses. And secondly, the account of unpaid salaries and labour claims, ma'am, the workers in Croatia today cannot get a work book when they want to leave because they want to go to another employer and have to seek the intervention of the inspection and other bodies, let alone that they will receive a bill from that employer on unpaid wages to apply their right of executive documents and thus directly charge. The problem is therefore in the second segment of the legislative regulation and functioning of a government that is not in the Ministry of Finance's portfolio but is in the same government. That's what we talk about all the time. So false illusion, we give hope. He won't be able to charge his wages because he won't be able to get a paper bill as much as he has so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15390	Thank you. This is what we're done with the debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15391	Final proposal of the Executive Act, second reading, CZ, No. 128. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. I'm asking you to let us know who's in favour by hand-lifting? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that most of the votes 84 for, 24 versus and 5 are abstentions to the Executive Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15659	And we move on to: - Final proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the framework loan contract number f/p 1725 (2010) between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank for the Project of Upgrade and Reconstruction of Prisons in Zagreb, emergency procedure, first and second reading of the PZ No. 141; The Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament include the first and second reading, and you can submit the amendments until the end of the debate. The debate on the law was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Justice. You received reports from the working bodies at the session. Does the applicant's representative want to add an explanation of the proposal? Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15660	Thank you very much. Honorable MPs and respected MPs. We propose to confirm the framework loan agreement for the Zagreb Prison Construction and Reconstruction Project. In the context of the report on compliance with the obligations set out in Chapter 23, special attention shall be paid to the situation in prisons, i.e. in lack of capacity, and since 2010 it has been working to improve capacity, respectively, since 5 November 2010. The Republic of Croatia has reached a conclusion that accepts the document, i.e. the report on the implementation of the Construction and Reconstruction Project in Zagreb. A framework loan agreement for Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank was subsequently concluded. The contract was signed by the Republic of Croatia in 2011 and we, in order to make it legal, which is part of our legal system, is required by law and to confirm it. In this regard, we propose to confirm the said contract because it is certainly in the interest that the facilities in the prison system are increased and also by building up and rebuilding the prisons in Zagreb. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15661	Thank you too, Deputy. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We're moving on to a debate. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representative Marijan Skvarić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15662	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, respected deputy ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. The HNS club Liberal Democrats supports the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of a Framework Loan Contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank for the Zagreb Prison Upgrade and Reconstruction Project. In fact, we are aware that every year the number of convicted persons and citizens still need to be proven guilty, detainees, and the capacities are always the same and always missing. The residents of the prison were literally pushed into their cells and there are cases of sleeping on mattresses laid on the floor. Of course, we always talk about capital investments, but in addition to always pointing out that this wants to solve the problem of overbooking of prisons, this investment and this activity will help solve many other problems as well. I would especially point out four here. First of all, the first increase in the safety of the prisoners, officials and citizens themselves. For years, prison facilities have been overcrowded in Croatia. Officially, there is room for over 3,000, 700 people, and the figures they need to use are over 5,000 and are constantly growing. Many problems arise from overcrowding. The decline in hygiene, the inability to deal with various activities, reduce the possibility of visits and phone calls, increase tensions between staff and prisoners, attempt to self-harm and suicide precisely because of poor material conditions. Working in prison is without a doubt one of the most demanding jobs at all. Prison staff in small rooms and various situations in contact with persons of different characteristics, different maturity, worldview, cultural habits with persons who have committed various crimes, often present personality disorders, and with persons of different abilities and needs. So in that part, it is really important to take care of the increased safety of prisoners, officials, and citizens. The emphasis is also on the political part. The prisons themselves are also telling us about what our country is like so that protecting human rights is a particularly important and sensitive issue in the conditions of closure because closing a person takes away fundamental human rights, the right to freedom. In doing so, the person who is deprived of liberty retains all other rights that he has as a human being as a person and as a human being must be respected and treated in great respect. The main purpose of the execution of prison sentences is to train prisoners to live free in accordance with laws and social rules with human treatment and respect for decent persons. Of course, we must manage the conditions and juvenile prisons. That's what the law says about... the sentence of the prison of the Republic of Croatia. And especially that deprivement of freedom and punishment is in itself, so conditions and regimes where persons are deprived of freedom should not make it more difficult. Sam Nelson Mandela said "One nation should not be judged by how it treats its citizens who are at the top but as it refers to those at the bottom." This is indeed what it says about our respect for the political part of this decision as well. Of course, as a third, he would also emphasize the pedagogical, penological, sociological moment, and that is how people prepare for normal life and how to deal with people as humans. The problems are even more pronounced in the population of detainees despite the fact that they are not convicted, so either they are innocent, they cannot organise activities, including contact with the outside world, education and the like, so they are in a much more unfavourable position. Problems worsen where limited capacity does not make it possible to separate prisoners from prisoners. In addition, the number of people in custody is increasing as is the length of detention. In addition, prison staff are tasked with organising life in prisons so that the prisoner has been able to prepare for life at large since the arrival of the sentence. In fact, prisoners should be encouraged so that the time spent in prison later allows them to behave responsibly after their release and motivate them to qualify for independent life in accordance with social norms. Of course, the fourth is no less important, this is the economic segment of these decisions, which is that although the execution of prison sentences is financed and should be financed from the state budget. Of course, the funds are always missing. Why there's no means, why this is the situation, I wouldn't explain it in particular right now. First of all, the work of the prisoners can also generate additional income, so the funds achieved in this way are used to raise the standards of prisoners. Of course, there I would mention that the law presupposes, above all, the volunteer work. Anyone who wants to work in prison can work, if he doesn't want to do it in that part, there's no legal possibility of forcing him to do it, it's left to his decision. Of course, we're not talking about capital investments because every construction in particular if it comes to part of construction, investment in capital investments, that's 6.5 million euros, 10 million kuna, so it's certain that some construction operative will hire its workers, be able to pay the workers, be able to pay in that part of what it was to pay its commitments and, of course, keep their jobs. As far as further plans are concerned, they continue on the action plan for the expansion of prison facilities and the action plan has been defined several years ago. The action plan has also completed and the facility in Glina is also planned, here is the investment of prison construction in Zagreb and, of course, the further plan is to build a prison in Sibenik that should get the capacity of over 1000 prisoners of all categories, sex and age. For Sibenik when we speak it is 700 million kuna and it is also one of the great capital investments. We have 7 prisons throughout Croatia, 2 educational institutions, a prison hospital, 14 prisons and a training centre. All of them need investment. In addition to overcrowding, additional efforts and financial resources should be made to find and adapt new spaces and to re-use them for the accommodation of prisoners. In addition, it is necessary to employ the prisoners as fully as possible and to organise new programmes and activities that will occupy them most of the day outside of the accommodation space. Of course, there's always money problems. ... What is also said here, if there is no state budget, what is most qualitative can be resolved through the loan of the Council of Europe Development Bank, but we hope that other funds will be found for that level. [[You don't understand.]] First of all, there are very good examples in Europe of possible expansion, and the construction of new capacities that I have said is in proportion between 3500 how much accommodation we now have and 5000 how much it is necessary, that it can be solved according to both the programme and the opportunities of the public and private partnership. Then the question is, and what if we don't do it all together and expand the capacities and all these things I said, first of all, we're gonna pay the fines and now we're gonna pay the fines for complaints if someone isn't in those adequate legal conditions that are prescribed has accommodation and all the other things that the state has to do to the prisoners. Here in this part I would especially mention myself as the mayor of the town of Lepoglava, a penitentiary in Lepoglav where it is also in that future action plan of expansion of prison facilities is very much to be guided about the penitentiary in Lepoglava because after the construction of a penitentiary in Sibenik that includes the southern space of our country, in that part we should have the largest penitentiary in the city center, so I can say even most... Penitentiary centres in the city that then make any further development segment impossible for you, especially in municipal infrastructure and economic, not to mention that identity. [[You don't understand.]] Having one charisma of the largest prison in Croatia is not very pleasant, and yet I can say that Lepoglava deserves another perception as... The rich historical, cultural heritage that we got from the Pavlins, UNESCO City and other things. [[You don't understand.]] So there's a solution, moving prisons to the periphery that would get very new contents in the accommodation-pentological-sociological moment. Of course, in that part, further development of the city itself is also possible. Here again on behalf of the HNS club, Liberal Democrats, we support this bill in any case, and especially what I would like to say is... I, as mayor of the town of Lepoglava, express a little dissatisfaction, because this will make it even more possible to extend my time in prison in Zagreb, i.e. Remetinca, and I will have very few in Lepoglav, and I am not happy about it then. [[You don't understand.]] I'd like them to be as many as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15663	Thank you, too. We have a replica of your exposure. Boro Grubisic, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15664	Thank you very much. You have analysed the situation in the prison system in the Republic of Croatia well. You mentioned here, here at the end of Lepoglav, then Zagreb, you did not seem to mention Glina, but Sibenik certainly is for the south of Croatia, but on the east of Croatia, about Slavonia and Baranja and prison facilities there which are needed as much as in other parts, you did not say anything. Although the plans of the former government also included the construction of a prison in the area of these three counties, Vukovar-Srijemska, Brod-Posavia and Osijek-Baranja, therefore somewhere in Vrpolje, about it Mrs Ana Lovrin, the former minister knows much more. Now in these materials, plans and some kind of strategy, there's not one more word. So here in this field, I have to point out this kind of neglect because we know that prison isn't like you said only one institution that's a little frustrating some people's thoughts. He is also an economic unit, he is also a capital investment in the area. So an economic unit because every prison, depending on capacity, can employ 100, 200, 300 people. That's how you should look, you said something like that, look at that thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15665	Thank you, too. We have a reply to the replica, my colleague Škurić here.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15666	Here I agree in that part, although I mentioned building a penitentiary facility in Glina as a done deal in some way, and in the debate I mentioned really that those 7 penitentiarys, 14 prisons, educational institutions all of them should invest in that part. And really here is that, with the new action plan that we need to adopt, which needs to be done, we need to cover all these activities around this municipal infrastructure, economic infrastructure and, of course, look for funding opportunities.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15667	Thank you. Next on behalf of the SDP club, Vice President Nenad Stazic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15668	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. It's only short because it's not smart to talk to people who are waiting to be let go for lunch. What's about this bill is interesting dates. These dates themselves give birth to a whole series of associations that then spread as concentric circles, like waves when a stone is thrown into calm water. The Government of the Republic of Croatia decided at a meeting held on 5 November 2010 to request this loan, and the Minister of Finance was on 26 October 2011. She signed this loan for years. So it's in the evening of leaving power when it's already more or less known and what the election result will be. Now someone a little more evil might be wondering, however, how could the government know that prison facilities will be of a random need in the Republic of Croatia when that government leaves power. You could ask yourself in another concentric circle if it was a conflict of interest because we know what a conflict of interest is. Then when private and public interests conflict and someone in his private interest cares about the restoration and office of prison facilities. Because staying in prison is never pleasant, but yet my God may be a little better if he is staying in an extended newly renovated and decorated space. The HDZ government could have requested instead of asking for a loan to rebuild the penitentiary, a prison to seek credit for the construction of kindergartens, a maternity home. This is more than 6 million and 480,000 euros. Well, it's not small money. If she had done so, it would have meant that at the end of her second term, she had brought Croatia into a situation where birth is growing, where children are growing higher, and there are poor people like us who can't build kindergartens and maternity homes on their own, so we're looking for European money for it. We're asking the world to help us with that. But unfortunately, that's not the case. We'd all be more happy if that were the case, but unfortunately not. Because at a time when this loan request was set in Croatia did not increase birth but crime, so the request is somewhat logical and justified. And now, look, you might now be counting these concentric circles I don't know how many. You could be a bad guy, I don't know how, but I'm gonna break up with that right now, and I'm gonna say why I actually answered my word. Why should this law be adopted regardless of the motives of the previous action? Because we're a state, and if we want to be a country, we're going to accept this kind of law. This law should legalise an international contract because the credit has the meaning of an international contract. And the new government, regardless of what the motives of the former government were when it signed, concluded some international contract by the new government because we are a state, because we want to be a state that is recognised, known, appreciated in the world, shows that it accepts and implements interstate contracts regardless of what government has concluded them. That's what it says here. The State and formally express its willingness to be bound by an already signed international contract and the fact that changes or additions to the text of the international contract are generally not possible at this stage of the procedure. We can't change this international contract, we can't ask now to finance maternity homes, hospitals, schools. It will be funded to rebuild the prison – let it be, let it be. So we must refer to this international contract as well as to all other international contracts, regardless of their subject. If they were signed by the elected government, the President of the Republic, the Government, so those who were authorized to enter into international contracts. I believe that there will be no club and there will be no MPs who will vote against this law, and I hope that their main motive will not only be to close offices as a colleague has spoken, because it is a ridiculous need, but to show the world how many states we are, how much we hold to our word, how much we hold to the signed contracts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15669	Thank you, too. Given that the scheduled break is today in the debate, I am determining a break and we are continuing to work, i.e. with replicas at 15.00 p.m. Thank you. My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. Replicas are coming up to expose Vice President Nenad Stazic. The first one came to Josip Boric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15671	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, first of all, I have to say that I'm sorry that you interrupted the session in such a way that our public couldn't see our replicas of Mr. Vice President Stazic's presentation. And the fact is that Mr. Stazic didn't read this contract well, and I don't think he ever took part in any of these loans, so then he can't even know exactly why the government brought something in the 10th month of 2011, and we're only discussing in 2012 the confirmation of this loan signed by the minister in 2011. Because it is a process that is ongoing and it is not easy to negotiate, and in particular to sign a contract written in both Croatian and English where every word is important and of course it requires the coordination and arrival of the technical commissions of banks, the review of the project itself, and ultimately the Assembly is just coming to confirm all these documents in the way we have received it. The fact is, these documents should be defended by the finance minister or by someone from the finance ministry because the Ministry of Finance is signing them. We have a representative of the Justice Department, and now that I'm asking the lady to explain the interest or this part that's written here, I believe that perhaps the lady wouldn't know. And that's why I don't think it's necessary to dramatize and talk about this subject in this way because it's a simple confirmation of a contract that is international and which requires the consent of the Parliament, and that's why I think that statement that was so dramatic has not contributed to anything in this debate because I'm simply saying these kind of contracts we've already had enough. I personally negotiated two of those. One successful, CEF-4, which enabled islands over 100 infrastructure projects, and EIB 3 has just been launched and is being launched by the former government, and this one has inherited it and has been implemented for the next 4 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15672	Thank you, too. Next replica, Ante Kulusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15673	Mr. Vice President Stazic said he won't be bad, so neither will I. I will ask, given that there has been a lot of talks here about the prison of Sibenik, counterpart Stazic mentioned little about it, but this would be more of a question for the deputy minister, which will be with the prison of Sibenik, given that the 2009-2014 Action Plan has already received 800 000 euros of grants for the financing of consultants? 2016 was due to be closed, it is 560 new jobs in Sibenik, Sibenik-Knin County, and I would later ask Deputy Minister with this replica of my colleague Stazic to tell us what it is and at what stage of the prison in Sibenik because there has been a lot of talk about the prison in Sibenik, but it seems that from the prison there will be no end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15674	Thank you, too. Next replica, Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15675	Here's Mr. Vice President, I'm going to use this replica first of all for one, I'd say, inappropriate way to conduct a session because after an hour and a half I'm going to replicate to Mr. Stazic, he's probably forgotten what he said, in what sense he said. I don't think he's forgotten, but I think you should at least allow those replicas in not that direct transmission but as long as that replica makes sense. On the side that you left the HDSSB outside, although we are paying a regular radio-television subscription of 80 kuna, many citizens of Slavonia and Baranja may be paying an additional salary of those 250 kn for the performance, I think it was appropriate to do these replicas and then you could declare a break for a deserved or undeserved privileged lunch. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15676	Thank you, too. You used the replica, and you actually referred the review to the president. It's an institution that hurts the Rules of Procedure, isn't it? I'm saying you should have announced a breach of the Rules of Procedure in that section, that it's not too late. It's okay. Further replica, Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15677	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, for a while, I'd just like to look back on what Vice President Stazic was saying. I would like to tell him, he probably doesn't know, he didn't do it, so rebuilding, reconstruction, building prisons in Croatia was necessary to improve the prison life of those who live because it is one of the standards that exists in the EU. So, as we also coordinate the Croatian economy and education and health care, science must also intervene in the prison system. But especially here has to intervene because the legacy is terribly difficult, you probably remember better than me and Goli Island, St. Grgur, Old Town. That's where your people lived under inhuman conditions. Imagine you insult the state and party and hop into prison, there humiliate you, torture you, everything has happened. And now the EU is very sensitive then to how we will arrange the prison system so as not to repeat such a thing. So now prisoners must have conditions that are appropriate and that are the way they are in other European countries. This is our legacy, and you are the follower of the party that then ruled the former Yugoslavia and which had this prison system. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15678	I'm asking you colleagues without trespassing.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15679	I don't know why Mrs. Anticevic found herself called, I spoke to Vice President Stazic. So that's why in Croatia this standard has to be improved because we have a terribly difficult and bad legacy. They've been humiliated, they've lived in inhumane conditions, and now it needs to be fixed because it really wasn't right. And it was terrible if you were offended by the state or insulted by the party and ended up in prison, and then tortured, tortured, and humiliated.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15680	Time, buddy. Thank you. We have a reply to the replica of Vice President Nenad Stazic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15681	I don't remember a naked island, I may look like one, but I'm not old enough to remember a naked island. I remember, however, the Paki plain. And the one responsible for the Pakrac plain was brought into the county home by President Tudjman, and that's part of the legacy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15682	Thank you. Next replica Darko Milinovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15683	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I have a replica of the opening part of your exposure that may be a little off topic, when you said the former government didn't take care of the commitments that would burden the next government. Well, let me remind you that this is precisely why, in order to reduce commitments, financial obligations to the next government, we did not know at the time whichever was going to be, that we changed the Health Protection Act, it seems to me, the 36th, which imposed, that in short, it would explain the willingness to be paid as overtime, and for that it should be allocated this year in the budget of an additional 700 million kuna. In a few months we talked to the social partners and managed to agree with them to amend that part of the law, and based on the amended law, it was supposed to provide 700 million kuna, only 70 million kuna. And after that, we see in seven and eight months a violation of a collective contract to pay doctors. The minister has not yet set up a commission to interpret the collective agreement, but this all says that we've been taking care that we're not burdening the next government however it may be. This is a visionary representation of it, so with 700 million kuna understanding of the social partners we've reduced to just saying it I'm just going to say, although it's a lot, to just 70 million kuna this year. And once again, I note with the understanding of the social partners for the crisis we have.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15684	Thank you. Next replica, Ivan Shantek. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15685	Thank you. Here I do not have the usual replication, but I was offered a statement by Mr. and fellow Stazic, that the motivation of the former government was actually to provide comfort where they would all be in prison. Well, here's while they're in power to make it more comfortable for themselves to keep them in jail. And I have to say that during the time of the SDP, the former government, so during Racan's government, a law on the execution of prison sentences was passed, and that law has laid down standards. Mrs. Anticevic was a minister. It prescribes standard and nutrition, and space, and even cubics the air that every prisoner, or prisoner, must have. And if we read after that a report by the attorney general, then we see that just now the objections of the attorney general were to those standards set by that law. Therefore, the government's motivation was not to provide itself with comfort, so that one day when it ends, as you say in prison, it would be best placed, but had just done this to ensure that people who live there are comfortable enough. I think, Mr. Stazic, the vice president of this house, that you visited a prison in Sisak and a prison in Osijek, that you would never say anything like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15686	Thank you. And the last replica of Davor's Mlakar. He's gone? He's losing his right to a replica. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of HDSSB representative Zoran Vinkovic and Boro Grubisic, they shared the time for discussion. Here's a colleague of Vinkovic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15687	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. And I'd probably thank you more if you were so many Democrats, so you let it go in that direct session, because you wouldn't take too much time to advertise. But since this law is before us, here after a long time I will agree with Vice-President of the Assembly of Stazic. Indeed, looking at these dates raises one question, which was silenced by the Ministry of Finance for almost a year, to sign, or ratify this decision, and only now, has it been a year since this law came to Parliament, practically about the loan between the Republic of Croatia and the Development Bank of the Council of Europe for a project to build up and rebuild prisons in prisons. I have this, like all of you, this original in English, and I remind you here is this esteemed home that, since I am a parliamentary representative in the second term, I remind you that it was one of the first points of the agenda in that 6. The assembly of the Croatian Parliament when they talked about Lucy Ploče. This money, then, was also the cornerstone of the foundation, these money was spent before the Parliament passed and passed the law. There is a logical question here, whether these money has been spent for the purpose of building a prison or this Parliament only serves as the paper that hides the chastity of "crime" or all that happens on the other side of the building, on the other side of this square. I also believe that these funds, as they were then, were also, the development banks of the Council of Europe, already spent in the pre-election campaign of Ivo Sanader and its guarantee cards. And it should really be said here that the times of Jasenovac and Gradiška old, naked island have passed, so I would say Leprechaun in those conditions and in that conveyed meaning, which is from 45 to 90 for all those who for, above all, political reasons, so here I am not defending rapists and all other types of crime, but above all for political reasons, as was Cardinal Stepinac, were in Lepoglav. However, looking at today's conditions in Croatian prisons really at that time as if these 45 or 50 or 60 years had absolutely not changed in these prisons, and today we have both inhuman and inhuman conditions. And we are not like a club against improving conditions, but there is an open, clear and loud question. Do we need to borrow loans for this kind of money and re-negotiate Croatia? It is here, and I would not like for all the MPs from HDZ to get angry here, it was primarily about a joke that all Croatian citizens know and who Mr. Stazic convinced. In fact, in that former government it may have really been smarter to invest in prison conditions than they have invested in the development of education of Croatian knowledge, because of this Croatian knowledge today there is nothing and we see that both former prime minister and individual government officials end up in exactly what has not been invested in for many years. And I'm asking here and after me will continue my colleague Grubisic, asking how it can happen in these prisons and Croatian generals such as that. Djuro Brodarac, as it was Branimir Glavas, ends up with 16 rapists, at a temperature of 40 degrees, not in prison, and his life as if it were not about Croatian generals, but rather about street rapists, organized drug lords, drug dealers, everyone who is really in prison at this moment and having all this in mind is asked a question and who is responsible? We are responsible gentlemen and we who sit here and by our actions or inaction do not point to what is happening in Croatian prisons. But since the situation is in Croatian society and we have talked about it many times where many hardly make ends meet where there is almost nothing healthy, this is the same situation in Croatian prisons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15688	A lot of illusions Mr. Stazic made in his presentation, as far as I can tell by the reaction especially from the HDZ club remained undetected. He was referring to the fact that there was a recognized need at the time of 2011, 2011 for the construction and construction of prison facilities much more than for the construction of kindergartens if I quoted somewhat correctly. I don't think there's any need to comment and interpret the illusion. Furthermore, he spoke of respecting international contracts signed by the government or the finance minister, and also said the President of the Republic, international contracts signed by the President of the Republic. Well, it is clear that even though this is currently to say off the cannon or topic that is not related to this and President Tudjman's signature of a temporary contract and agreement with BiH regarding the border on the Great and Small Shkoy and the Peninsula of Klek, it is therefore that this contract, which she is the government of the former HDZ, should be respected as well. Although the conditions for meeting the implementation of this framework contract regardless of interest and conditions and in the way in which you repay that loan or loan however you want them are much easier and will always be easier than God forbid that contract to be implemented by Tudjman-Izetbegovic because the consequences would be catastrophic by the Republic of Croatia, the Croatian people and the Croatian people in BiH. So you need to make that clear because the illusions were clear. As regards the prison and the signing between our law on the confirmation of a framework contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank, we are clear to us, especially after today's heated debates, and since the conditions are here and two days before this debate, there has already been a very trending report on the conditions in our prisons, the conditions and everything else that led me to say to the death of our General Đura Brodarec and that in Osijek in the Investigation Prison. I have to say here that when I'm talking about prisons, prisons and these repressive rooms and spaces, then it must show here that in the press and the media in the autumn, a wide-ranging topic came out that says "single support for the construction of prisons and penitentiary in Vrpolje near Slavonski Brod". The government made a decision such as Mr. Sanader Ivo on 25 September 2005 at a meeting of the Government in Slavonski Brod, not an idea, not a strategy, but a decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to build in Slavonski Brod a police administration that is currently rented in private space in Slavonski Brod, or was hired, and it was necessary to build a new police administration that is still today a regular backdrop or meadow on which what the ringishipiles and entertainment park still have its concessions. And we talked about concessions yesterday and they're doing their concession contracts. So I'd say about these areas for the police, then the penitentiary in Slavonski Brod, and from the promises of this government that was before, and also from this present one, there's nothing. Not one or the other to remember. The only prison in the area of Slavonia is in Požega, not one more of our entire region. In Osijek, there's an investigative prison, there's no prison in Slavonski's ship, there's obviously people okay. Vinkovci, Vukovar too. He's only in Pozega prison. And when we look at that decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Justice, Mrs Lovrin is here because I was glad to talk to her about it then, I was happy, it was written that she would get a job there, so in Vrpolje near Slavonski Brod at the intersection of three or a meeting point of our three counties, Osijek-Baranja, Vukovar-Srijemska and Brod-Posavia, right on the triangle, so we already employ 300 employees, of which 200 judicial officers. It will be arranged in the construction and infrastructure of the Vrpolje Municipality itself, because the prison also needs access roads, etc. The project was supposed to stand and the funds were allegedly secured in the amount of 180 million kuna. There's no lip, let alone swear. Neither this government nor the Minister of Justice nor the Ministry of Finance thinks more about it. At the same time, it happened that we were discussing a prison in Sibenik, it was given approval and here at the Parliament discussed it. Then the extension of the prison in Glina and here is now the project for the construction and reconstruction of Zagreb's prisons. And how long? And then when someone talks about regionalisation that it is excellent and defends two regions in Croatia, northern and southern, continental and coastal, Adriatic, in order to say either red and white Croatia, it is still the most similar from history, the red one the southern and white part of Croatia. And this is one of the arguments that speaks of this injustice and irregular development and investment in all parts of the Republic of Croatia. First of all, in that region which unfortunately has 34% of the average GDP of the European Union, unlike those that have 115, 78 Varazdin County, 115 or 120 Zagreb, etc. It is clear that the international agreement here on benches between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe's Development Bank is difficult to avoid when the government has already accepted it and that it is in the process and given the conditions offered and paid off by those 6.5m euros, to round up now for some 20,000 euros more, there is 6.5m euros or about 50m kuna, therefore it is difficult to refuse and given the real or real state of our prisons and the overcrowding and conditions in which they live, so neither HDSBB can be against such a legislative proposal. But I have to point out and say what I've said, as ironic as that sounds, such prison facilities that are also economic units, 300 employees with 300 salaries that will spend that salary in that area, pay VAT, that's an economic unit. I'm not talking about the activity that this applies to, so prison, but I'm talking about real life and the real state where the unemployment rate is above 30% in that area. And in Spain there are riots because Spain has an unemployment rate of 25%. Well, we're wonderful citizens, we Croats, we put up with what the Bosnians say, so I don't know how far.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15689	My fellow man, one minute has passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15690	And those five for the closing word.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15691	Yes, yes, but then finish now.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15692	Here's a good one, thank you very much. So we won't be against this legislative proposal, but I'm saying all of this, and especially the illusions of international contracts signed by the president, and you HDZ gentlemen haven't noticed that, that's really sad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15693	Thank you. We've got a line on the presentation of our colleagues, Vinkovic. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15694	A colleague of Vinkovic, including his colleague Grubisic, but I will look back on what my colleague Vinkovic said about today's conditions, he spoke slightly and historically, very badly in Croatian prisons. Here's what our media reports on the state of prison. Strasbourg terrified of Croatian prisons, Croatia ended up in the Court of Human Rights, Traffic in Remetinco etc., etc. Note, a colleague here spoke earlier about the law we passed in 2001 with all the European standards to be respected. At the end of 2003, when the international institution dealing with the penal system and the state in the penal systems in these countries assessed the situation in Croatian prisons as an example to other transition countries, then from then on to here the situation in prisons would be catastrophic, and this is the result of the wrong criminal policy where we have all been put in prisons, even when we have made it possible to care and secure the care facilities in our prisons and penitentiary rooms and certain social rooms that are so necessary to resuscitate because we don't send them to a school of crime but we send people to resocialize. There's always a prison sentence and this one dimension of retribution, but there's a good part of this dimension of education. And what kind of education can be made possible in the prisons that you mention, and many of you have talked about sleeping together now, everything has been turned into dormitory, sick with healthy, multiple murderers and criminals with those primary delinquents. But why, it's not the people who work there who do it because it's the way it is. So, we must all welcome the adoption and Croatia is depraved and these are the reasons for the penal nature, but also the economics. Croatia is responding and paying large damages to prisoners because of the difficult situation. That's what the civil defender you mentioned here said, which pointed out is also a national security problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15695	Thank you. Time. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15696	Well, here's what my colleague Ingrid said. However, how the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, in these conditions in which they are hard to live, do not really care what happened in '45, which was since '41. or from 2001 to 2003, they are not interested in what has been the case so far until 2012; they are more interested in what will be the situation tomorrow. It is also critical in normal life, but what is the situation in Croatian society is also the situation in Croatian prisons. And what my colleague Grubisic said and this division into two statistical regions will not be the prison in Vrpolje, there will be no project for which 100 million kuna has been secured and Slavonia and Baranja will again be denied even for prison potential. What I want to propose to this government is that apparently this loan was signed during the former government, that this government would continue to do so. So let's try to think about it similar to what we're going to do with Croatian highways, with a wealth of the Republic of Croatia. I'm not getting into how much the highway cost from 2001 to the third, and after 2003, at least 20 times that. Here, let's try to put the prisons in a concession. Let's try to start building prisons through a public private partnership. Let's just not build them in a way that costs as much as these sports halls, arenas, to pay a few hundred million kunas more than that gym actually does.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15697	Thank you. We have the next replica, Josip Boric, at the presentation of his colleagues, Grubisic. Here's my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15698	Thank you very much. Well, the distinguished colleague Grubisic spoke about prisons, he mentioned Vrpolje etc. But I'm going to repeat here again what I said because I think it's important. Today there was supposed to be a representative of the Ministry of Finance, because this is the law they need to defend because this is a financial document. I would now ask the deputy what something means here, we wouldn't get an answer, and it's our job to discuss the contract and confirm it as Parliament at the vote. The other thing that matters. This is the best possible contract we could get, because interest is the best but only for the infrastructure project. And this is one of the 13 that we already signed with a bank like that. However, a colleague on the other hand took advantage of this opportunity, because in the name of the document, of course, the word is prison, and he constantly thinks that the word refers only to a particular political group. I see these days that there are various candidates on another group of politicians. And I don't think that was correct, and it didn't contribute to this debate, and it would have done a lot more if we'd looked at what it says here, and then maybe we'd straightened it out in some parts. And it says you can't build a kindergarten out of this because he or the state will never borrow loans for kindergartens, which was also a comparison because it's an exclusive jurisdiction, and that's all the mayors, the mayors know it's the exclusive jurisdiction of local self-government. And I say the attempt of the former government to bring about a better, a change in that system, a prison system to allow a little bit and in that segment a better standard today is turned here in this assembly into politicisation, it is dramatic, and then we wonder together with Croatian citizens what rating this Croatian Parliament has with these citizens. Here's yesterday's final survey 204. Great, the worst of all institutions in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15699	Thank you, too. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15700	Thank you very much. I am glad that at least with delay you responded to the presentation through the replica of me, to the presentation of Mr. Stazić, and in connection with these kindergartens, the construction of prisons and these illusions as it was necessary at the time, and I guess as far as I can see from the work and these current owners may need more capacity of prisons, so maybe Vrpolje near Slavonski Brod will come in line for the construction of the prison. The second thing I wanted to say in your replica is that this contract, therefore preliminaryly concluded in 2010, was later decided in 2011. However, I have shown you the explicits that already in 2008 it was due to start building prisons in Vrpolje near Slavonski Brod. However, this idea and this project have unquestionably disappeared in decisions, and I don't know which actions exactly at the time of the government of Ivo Sanader. And besides, the government's decision to build a police administration in Slavonski Brod that played on vervain. Here, that's what I wanted to talk about and talk about.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15701	Thank you. Next is the replica Ante Kulušić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15702	Mr. Vice-President, I agree with you that this law and the addition and spending of money alone in Zagreb is not like what we all swear to a balanced development of the state of Croatia. And quite normally, it would be better to invest either in Vrpolje or to do a prison in Sibenik that I agree with my colleague Ingrid who said they live in inhumane conditions. Because the government's decision said the construction of a penitentiary and prison in Sibenik would establish a standard of enforcement of prisons and detention measures prescribed by national legislation. The law on the execution of prison sentences, the law on criminal proceedings and European prison rules. Unfortunately, however, we hold on to nothing. I am not going to talk here about what the decision was 50% from the CEB, 50% from the budget, and this time again I ask the deputy minister in which the prison situation in Sibenik was, since we also received 800,000 euros in grants for the financing of consultants. There's been a lot of talk about this project. I repeat it again means a lot to five hundred jobs for the city of Sibenik. It takes a long time from 2003 to 2006, 2016. The prison should be open by 2016, however, it will not start to borrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15703	Thank you, too. We have an answer, Comrade Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15704	HDSSB voted counterpart Kulušić for the Law on the Construction of Sibenik Port. And today we stand on what Zlatko Pejakovic would say, Slavonia defended Dalmatia and vice versa. Therefore, I am not against prisons and prison capacities in Sibenik, as you are obviously not against prison facilities in Vrpolje. However, given certain experiences and knowledge, it may still be cheaper for this new government and somehow more appropriate to restore already existing capacities and are abandoned in Stari Gradišca, the County of Brodo-Posaviska also.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15705	Thank you. This is what we used up the order of the replicas. My colleague Grubisic, did you sign up for another five minutes or are you giving up? Thank you very much. This is what we're done with. I'm closing the debate. I'm just asking for a little bit. Here you go, Deputy Kunscht.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15706	Well, as we are suggested, we propose to integrate the signed contract into our legal system in accordance with Article 140. The constitution and after the contract has been signed, and for reasons of legal certainty, I now have no place to discuss interest and interest rates. The question is, are we going to incorporate the contract into our legal system or not? So they would remove it for a reason. And as for the prison in Sibenik, even though it's not a topic, we don't have the full security of funds as you mentioned earlier. Half of the funds should be secured, i.e. found in the budget. That's about 50 million euros somewhere. And you know, and we all know the state of the budget is such that we don't have those resources. Now we find some ways or other alternative funding options, and it's not that simple. Well, here, I'm so good for you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15707	Thank you. We have two replicas. The first one was Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15708	Yes, I would, although it's not a topic, wish the deputy minister had answered what happened to that prison project in Vrpolje, Slavonia. In 2007, the budget adopted the decision, and even the funds were reserved. In 2008, a definitive decision on the construction of this. Similar to Petra Preradovica Street in Djakova in the Croatian Roads Programme. But here's what surprises me. I am really surprised by this statement that we all know exactly what the state of the budget is and that these funds are not secured. I'm listening to the finance minister the other day saying the cashier's full. Here, I, as a parliamentary representative, find myself in wonder. Who do you trust now? Deputy Justice Minister or trust Minister of Finance? Similarly, it was yesterday the topic of a day when someone said they'd be fired by 20,000 officials, the first vice president of the government said they wouldn't get fired. Now, I think that this government needs an additional 20 to 30 days of rest in order to consolidate its thoughts and in order for the Croatian public, especially here in front of the Croatian Parliament, to come with really facts, not opinions. So, here I am asking you, Deputy President-in-Office of the Parliament, do you know if the Treasury is full or empty? And what can be done with that 52 billion kuna tax debt that is obviously well charged when the finance minister says the cashier is full. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15709	Thank you, too. And another replica of Ante Kulusic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15710	Here, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister, just for a little while. I did not say that the funds were secured but that construction of the penitentiary and prison in Sibenik would be financed 50% through the CEB loan, 50% from the state budget. The CEB's loan would amount to 36m euros, not 50m euros. Just for the record, nothing else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15711	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15712	Next, the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Framework Agreement on Loan Number F/P1725 (2010) between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank for a project to build up and rebuild prisons in Zagreb, emergency procedure, first and second reading of the PZ No. 141. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. I'm asking you to let us know who's in favour by hand-lifting? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you very much. The result? I lay down the unanimous adoption of the Law confirming the loan framework contract number F/P1725 (2010) between the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Europe Development Bank for a project to build and rebuild Zagreb's prisons in the text as proposed by the Proposer with 113 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15713	We move to - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Kosovo on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 157. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposaler's representative want to further explain? You don't have to. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the final proposal when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15714	Next, the Final Proposal of the Law on the confirmation of the contract between the Republic of Kosovo and the Republic of Kosovo on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 157. The debate on the law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's in? Who's against me, please? Any abstentions, please? Thank you very much. I am unanimous with 113 votes for the adoption of the Law confirming the contract between the Republic of Kosovo and the Republic of Kosovo on mutual legal assistance in criminal matters in the text as proposed by the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15715	We move to - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia on extradition, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 156. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. Deputy Minister on behalf of the Proposer? There's no need. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15716	Final draft law confirming the contract between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia on extradition, emergency procedure, first and second reading of the PZ No. 156. The debate on the law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I am unanimous with 113 votes for the adoption of the Law on the Confirmation of Contracts between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Macedonia on extradition in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15717	- Final proposal of the Law confirming the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Montenegro on mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 159. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Deputy Minister? Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15718	Final proposal of the Law confirming the contract between the Republic of Croatia and Montenegro on mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 159. The debate on the law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please raise your hand to plead who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I am unanimous with 113 votes for the Law on Confirmation of the Treaty between the Republic of Croatia and Montenegro on the mutual enforcement of judicial decisions in criminal matters in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15719	- Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Disclosure of Discrimination, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 145. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on European Integration and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the Proposer, do you want to? Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15720	Thank you very much. The existing Law on Discrimination of Discrimination was passed in 2008. The amendments and additions to this law were joined in 2011 because the European Commission highlighted certain shortcomings, i.e. it showed us that the exceptions to discrimination are too broadly formulated and that they do not correspond to the statements relevant in EU directives. In March 2012, the Ministry of Justice took over the obligation to make amendments to this law from the former Ministry of Youth and Social Policy. In April 2012, a working group for the making of the law was established. There were also representatives of the Office for Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Public Ombudsman, the Ministry of Youth and Social Policy, representatives of the university and representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In line with the European Commission's recommendations of 2011 and 2012, we have amended this text solely to comply with the European acquis. We are aware that there is still work in the area of anti-discrimination laws, and in this sense we have received numerous signals and particularly from NGOs. And we'll definitely still be working on it. But given the deadlines and the conditions that it sets before us to join the European Union, we propose that this law be amended by an urgent procedure, in order to implement all the obligations we have made. In particular, we have been shown that what we considered an exception to discrimination cannot be interpreted so widely, so in this regard we have amended the law. Therefore, discrimination allowed for reasons of public security may be excluded, but not in all cases, but only in cases of discrimination based on race or ethical origin. So then it won't be an exception. If it comes to young or older people, we adapted the formulation so that possible discrimination must be based on a legitimate objective and be proportionate if we can consider it an exception. An exception based on religious doctrine or belief in employment can only be accepted if there is a true, legal and justified condition for the performance of this work and the exception that would apply to the age limit for the establishment of a working relationship or for the termination of a working relationship in certain workplaces, there will be no discrimination, only if there is a legitimate objective and proportionality in the implementation. So, in short, the commission has shown us that the exceptions we set need to be brought to a proportionate end, i.e. that we should base them on a legitimate goal and a proportionate necessity. And not post them in general. In this regard, we have intervened in this law, and we propose that it be accepted as such. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15721	Thank you, too. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? If not, we'll move on to a club debate. On behalf of SDP representative Mirel Holly's club. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15722	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, the distinguished representative of the government. At the very beginning of the presentation on this final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, I would like to say on behalf of the Club of Representatives and Representatives of the SDP that the SDP Club will support the adoption of this law. I recall that the Law on Discussing Discrimination, which is an extremely important law on raising democratic standards and values of civil society, was adopted almost unanimously in the Croatian Parliament in mid-2008. This law, which brings together all the forms of discrimination in one place, and legally regulated legal instruments for their repression, has been made, we dare say, a quantum leap in relation to the previous situation when certain regulations in their texts included anti-discrimination provisions, and as soon as the state and society have not put themselves in a sufficiently restrictive manner according to all forms of discrimination. The previous government should be commended for having had the courage despite the resistance of individual influential institutions and groups to propose such a progressive law that most clubs supported in the House. In the SDP club, we are certain that the fact that such legislation was passed has raised at least formally legal terms human rights standards in Croatia and has affected the visibility of certain forms of discrimination. Unfortunately, the very fact that we have the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination has not led to a significant reduction of discrimination in Croatia. In the SDP club, we are aware that this is a process, but we are also warning that this process is taking place in Croatia. It is sad that in Croatia today for 4 years since the adoption of this extremely important law we are still witnessing on a daily basis many phenomena of discrimination. Knowing these facts, we have to ask the question, why is that and what does that mean? This means that state institutions are still not working effectively to combat discrimination, i.e. that the repressive apparatus in this extremely important area of protection of the constitutional rights of Croatian citizens and citizens is insufficiently effective. Many civil servants and officials, public employees themselves do not have enough awareness of what discrimination is and how discrimination can be manifested, and when they possess such knowledge, they do not consider them to be of paramount importance or to be the most decisive account of the state. Unfortunately, too, many Croatian citizens and citizens do not have enough awareness of what discrimination is and how discrimination is manifested, and this makes it difficult to apply anti-discrimination provisions strictly. However, such a situation in Croatian society must by no means be an alibi for the inaction and ineffectiveness of state institutions in countering discrimination. Because if citizens are not sufficiently informed, the task of state institutions is to inform and raise awareness, i.e. to carry out a constant public awareness campaign on all forms and manifestations of discrimination. And that, unnecessarily, is not working, there is no strategy to combat discrimination. Public awareness in this regard is left to the good will of individual media, the personal sensitivity of journalists and editors, and in general it has not worked on targeted, planned and high-quality public media actions. In the SDP club, we hope that in the years to come, the Ministry of Justice and the Office of the Public Attorney will make the new quantum step we need to become a progressive society with a high civilization standard of respect for all human rights. And why are we changing the 2008 Discrimination Law? Not because the law itself is bad, but in order to bring it into line with the acquis of the European Union, and in part of the exception to the principle of non-discrimination prescribed in this law by the most comprehensive Article 6 amending Article 9 of the original law. This brings us into line with a whole series of European directives, the one on equal treatment in the field of education and calling selection, the application of the principle of equality of persons regardless of their racial or ethnic origin. As well as the principle of equality between men and women in the ability to obtain and obtain goods. These principles of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment and occupation. It is good that these provisions further raise democratic standards and human rights, but as with the 2008 law, the very fact that we are passing such a law will mean nothing unless we reduce any form of discrimination in everyday life. Whether it is discrimination based on disability, sexual orientation, social status, nation, sex, religion, race or ethnicity. For this responsibility is borne by the entire society, not only by the police, courts, lawyers, public defender, justice minister, the government as a whole by the Parliament, but also by the media, the institutions of civil society, economic operators, and all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Discrimination happens every day, happens to people we meet daily, with whom we live. For example, I recently spoke to a woman who may have been an employer during a job interview asked to make a statement about whether she was planning to have children, and to promise that she would not have children if she was employed. Sounds unusual. Unfortunately, no, it is a daily phenomenon of a phenomenon that exposes thousands of women looking for work in Croatia. Will employers consider asking such a question to male candidates? The answer to that question is I believe it's completely unnecessary. Similarly, a large number of employers will be discriminated against by persons with disabilities, regardless of whether their disability affects the performance of work tasks. The employer will normally do so regardless of the equal qualifications for the job before choosing a male candidate and a person with no disability but a woman or person with disabilities. In Croatia, we do not have many other skin color, so racial discrimination in employment and the labour market is not as visible as discrimination on a national or religious basis, but with great certainty we can argue that an extremely large number of employers between candidates of the white race and candidates of the black, brown or yellow race would generally choose a white candidate regardless of the same professional qualifications. In Croatia, there is a particularly visible discrimination between women on the labour market, and given that there are almost 52% of women in Croatia, and that women represent the majority of women in numbers, it is precisely the necessary drastic actions to respond effectively to the repressive state apparatus to all the occurrences of discrimination of this type. In addition, it is good that Article 6(2) provides for an exception to the principle of discrimination on all forms of occurrences because this provision allows for measures of positive discrimination which are necessary and appropriate for the real equality of marginalised social groups, which are often women in Croatia. At the end of the debate, I will refer to Article 5. It's the law she's been responding to for people with disabilities. Therefore, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities has accepted the Advocate General's argument and submitted an amendment deleting Article 5. The law would make it impossible for persons with disabilities to call on the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination in the case of discrimination in the application of the Institute such as the resolution of the business capacity, the abstention and adoptions regulated by the Family Law. At the SDP club, we support this amendment of the committee and we hope that the government of the Republic of Croatia will accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15723	Thank you, too. We have a replica, Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15724	You see distinguished colleagues, regardless of the amendments to the law, the blindness supplement is one of the lowest in the world, even lower than Albania. And nothing this law will change. I would ask you not to take a break from clubs, I'm not a fomophob, but I just want to repeat what I said a few months ago when this group of people discriminated me by putting some pictures on certain websites but I further claim that as mayor of Djakova I will not allow the procession of pride through Djakovo. The Djakovo can pass the tour of the tour, it can pass the procession of the well, but that procession will not pass. And all the things I said back then are thanks because this was a different opinion. This wasn't talk or hate because I don't mind the sexual orientation of any man but I think it's a matter of human intimacy and it's a four-wall thing and it's not about the street, it's not about children no matter what kind of sexual orientation it is because we could have a pedophile procession soon. So I'm staying with everything said then. I thank you for the attention of Mayor Djakova Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15725	Thank you very much. Next on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour-Party of Labour Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15726	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Deputy Minister. Well, here in this High House, we should talk about discrimination, and we should talk about what it is and how we're going to work and how we're trying to stop it. And we will surely all agree that in the end discrimination comes under one and the same denominator, which is the personal responsibility of each and every one of us and our behavior receives everyone around us. Protecting fundamental human rights and promoting equality regardless of gender, race, religion and ethnicity is a fundamental value of the constitutional order of the Republic of Croatia. Yet only every third citizen in Croatia knows that gender discrimination is legally punishable, and only 18% think that men and women are equal in Croatian society. The saddest thing is that we experience inequality most in the family while in the field of education and work it happens half the way. All of this, and much more so, showed the first research into gender discrimination in Croatia. This is the first time scientific research on gender discrimination has been conducted in Croatia on a national sample and should serve as a basis for defining future birth policies. According to a UN report published by the Croatian Public Prosecutor of Discrimination, the most widespread is in the field of labour and employment, then health care, justice and police treatment. Even in 63% of the cases, discrimination was manifested precisely in the field of work and employment, which was just spoken by a colleague named Holly. The most common reasons for discrimination have proved to be social origin and property. New data have been compared with those since 2009 since the law was passed or the anti-discrimination law was applied, but unfortunately the situation has not been significantly improved in these three years. People still don't know who they'd turn to for discrimination. Through the process of harmonising legislation with international standards as well as active cooperation with international authorities, and the adoption of their recommendations, as well as the reforms implemented in the field of national law of the Republic of Croatia in the field of the fight against racism and discrimination, it adopted 2008. The Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. The adoption of this law provides for an exceptional step towards combating discrimination, in particular with regard to the established discriminatory grounds that exceed all those international standards in this area. However, in the common position of the EU since 18 December 2009, and related to the fulfilment of the conditions and obligations set out in Chapter 19-Social policy and employment in the area of combating discrimination, the EU has called on the Republic of Croatia to complete the harmonisation of legislation in this area, especially in relation to exceptions to the principle of non-discrimination, and therefore here we have today and these amendments that are on our agenda. We will agree that every form of discrimination is a reflection of social consciousness. The Ombudsman’s Office for Persons with Disabilities as a central body of protection against discrimination in 2010 resolved 252 cases and provided 729 phone consultations. The largest number of cases concerned the exercise of social protection rights in the field of accessibility, pension insurance and unfortunately the judiciary. Encouraged by the events of enrolment in the preschool program at Gornji Hraščan UNICEF School in Croatia, it reminds of the obligations and responsibilities of the Republic of Croatia to take over the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which concerns the provision of conditions in which each child can reach its full potential without discrimination. Except that children have the right to participate in educational programmes regardless of race, origin or economic status, non-inclusion of children from vulnerable groups in pre-school programmes Croatia unfortunately already pays dearly. Preschool programs represent a unique opportunity to reduce the difference between children so that all school students can go to school from the same initial positions. According to experts, the Republic of Croatia loses around 0.1% of its GDP annually, and in the long-term decrease in labour productivity due to insufficient inclusion of vulnerable groups of children in pre-school programmes. Compared to 2011 GDP, this could amount to more than 340 million kuna per year. More than 48% of women met employment ads in which sexuality is mentioned as one of the conditions for getting a job, and 36% of them came across ads that did not indicate that persons of both sexes could be contacted for the workplace. In both cases advertising should certainly be reminded, it is a violation of the provisions of the Law on Labour and the Law on Gender Equality. The study was conducted on a sample of 1017 women who were representative of the unemployed population in Croatia. The reasons for discrimination are unfortunately prejudice and stereotypes. Who may play one of the greatest roles in making these prejudices and stereotypes slowly change? The media. The media are the ones who should take on a great responsibility, but also as far as prejudice and stereotypes are concerned, media often create and reproduce themselves. It would therefore be very important to sensitize journalists and journalists for these and these issues, but unfortunately there is no recipe for all of this. Finally, we have a constant warning of these prejudices and stereotypes, continuous education and awareness because prejudice and stereotypes are reproduced and intercede through both primary and secondary socialization. Some research in America, for example. They showed that ethnic, racial, religious, and other prejudices already have children in kindergarten. Editorial policies and the personality of journalists can contribute much to reducing discrimination. Peace studies in Ljubljana, for example. made a manual for journalists and journalists on the subject of discrimination and how and in what way to report discrimination. Since it is symptomatic for us, according to the results of the study, that the issue of awareness of the consequences of discrimination is also borne by police officers, judges, educators and health professionals, employees of local and regional self-government, we will agree that it is true when it comes to discrimination that education is necessary at almost all levels. Unfortunately, we ourselves are often witnessing discriminatory thoughts complex in sentences and loudly spoken here in this House, but it is not reported, it is not written. The victims of discrimination were most often pushed to the edge of society. The marginalisation and social exclusion of these particular groups that can be transferred from generation to generation are the direct consequences of discrimination. It certainly has a very negative effect not only on the discriminated person or such group but on the whole society because within that society is causing inequality and is doing great damage. Certain types of discrimination that the company tolerates continue to transfer opens up the possibility of some new types of discrimination. The provisions of this law should contribute to a more effective and more complete application of the exemption provisions of the principle of non-discrimination, the removal of the concept of inequality with rules in the field of sexual harassment and the clear application of certain provisions thereof. We can finally agree that the legal framework for the protection of human rights in Croatia is still experiencing a small, small evolution with all its major disasters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15727	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club Sunčana Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15728	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My colleagues and colleagues. Well, as it is mainly about harmonising with the acquis of the European Union, I will look first and foremost at the law, and at the very beginning I would like to note that we have also received a report on the prevention of discrimination, so perhaps we could discuss the first report, perhaps then we would see what obstacles, which are shortcomings, and we might have been able to bring it into line, or the promoter might have been able to bring it into line with these changes. Many anti-discrimination provisions are contained as we know in a number of laws, as well as in the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, which recognises as many as 18 discriminatory grounds, so I remind only some of which are race, ethnicity, better skin, sex, etc. In practice, it actually means equal treatment for everyone or non-exclusiveness to anyone because of their diversity. Discrimination isn't just physical injury. That might be the best visible. Discrimination is not insignificant and as we unfortunately have opportunities and here we hear it happening daily, regardless of what the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia says that everyone in the Republic of Croatia has rights and freedoms regardless of his age, sex, race, language, religion, politicalism, in particular, I stress political or other belief. And regardless of the legislative framework in practice, things still don't work out. We need an effective and permanent policy to combat discrimination. We need to talk about her at all times. With the aim of preventing sexual discrimination, we have strengthened, for example, fundamental institutional mechanisms, and the most significant change was the adoption of a Law on Gender Equality, which is in line with European Union directives. Among other things, it also distinguishes general discrimination, and I will remind only the local elections are next year and 40% of the sub-represented sex on election lists at all levels. However, as you know, women are still under-represented in the bodies of political action, and here in the Croatian Parliament at all levels, as shown by the research "women in Croatian Politics" conducted last year. I'll look back at the research, quote some data. The purpose of the survey was of course to examine the values of the perception and knowledge of Croatian citizens, i.e. citizens about female political participation, and discrimination against women in the field of public and political life. The results showed that more than 60% of respondents believe women in Croatia are discriminated against and do not participate in sufficient numbers in Croatian politics. 85.4% of respondents support quota application as specific measures that would otherwise change the disappointing percentage of only 25% of women in the Assembly. It is important to note that everyone pointed out that we need media to identify what is happening in society, what is happening in the field of discrimination and that the media has the most impact on the position of women in society. As it has been many times in recent years, I have no doubt that this debate will be the case. We can see for ourselves tomorrow or the day after tomorrow how much our debate is actually going to have an echo in the media. Very little or almost nothing. That's what we're getting from, and that's what my colleague Nancy was talking about here. I think even colleague Holly, that we should all work together on education. We should educate the media. However, when we talk about some social phenomena and so on about phenomena in Međimurje County. So, I have to say about the little Roma that the reports were very superficial or that they were painted with sensation, which is unacceptable when it comes to children. When we talk in general about the position of women or if you want to talk about the position of women in the labour market he is still extremely poor, the percentage of unemployed women is high. With today in the Republic of Croatia 309903, people are unemployed. More than 160,000 women. So today in the Republic of Croatia over 160,000 women are at the Employment Service not to talk about those women who did not actually enter this devastating statistics, they must have been more. Besides, there are still pay gaps. In fact, women earn 60 percent of what men earn from the same education. In addition to sex, ethnic discrimination has been mentioned most often. These two forms of discrimination are equally present as forms of discrimination in the countries of the European Union. We're no exception. They're especially visible on the labour market. This discrimination process starts already in job talks – how old you are, do you intend to have children, up to maybe some more intimate issues, and that's reality. How to protect against discrimination? One study came out, I was here with my colleague Lovrin talking about whether or not to mention it at all, but they're really weird cracks. For example, we should write a diary, and then after a few months I guess we should see again in that diary if that's really true. So we should consult the first lawyer you have and who's probably in good relations with the employer. So that's not the way to fight discrimination. But it is if we speak out loud about it, if we include all the institutions, civil society organisations, if the lawyers at all levels are doing their job. We are talking about a democratic atmosphere, about creating a democratic atmosphere, and that actually means promoting tolerance, mutual respect, social sensitivity, human rights, but ultimately to point out that bodies that have to do so are effective, to show that laws are being implemented, that those who have found themselves in an intolerant world of discrimination have their rights. Then we'll be able to say that all the laws finally have their meaning. And finally let's not forget when we talk about others we're actually talking about ourselves, so all that someone here says is saying or sending a message to someone else is actually talking about themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15729	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDSSB club Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15730	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here is today a peaceful theatre atmosphere where the Law on Discrimination is, or amendments and additions to the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. And we're almost all in this topic today. I don't think there will be any club or individual who won't speak in the same direction and in the same form. Ivo Andric, Nobel laureate Ivo Andric once said: "The country or people who have foreign government or poor administration is beginning to think irrationally." Under that irrational part, there would actually be discrimination in that society, in that people. Tolerance, or intolerance, arises and is highlighted in poor societies, states, and also in unjust societies. Why do I say that and why am I behind it? So starting with a family where there is no bread and for basic needs, we ourselves are aware that there is poisoning. I won't speak between who and where there's intolerance, not to say discrimination. So in the country if she is poor, if some things are wrongly placed then discrimination arises. And in the case of what this saying of Ivo Andric is worth, will we recognize ourselves and who will recognize it? I don't know, it's up to us to recognize ourselves or not. The vulnerable groups – predecessors who spoke before me cited and counted all those vulnerable groups. The other day I listened to whether Polygraph or some radio show are good shows and current political on that radio, in the morning as we prepare for work, about how a woman is looking for a job but there are a lot of issues that fall within the scope of discrimination. Whether she's married or not, whether she's given birth or not, whether she's going to have a baby or not, or if she's married or not, how old she is, what her medical condition is, whether she's going to be sick often, etc. And the questions I wouldn't like to say here that go any further... let's say, and they're not even to say. Furthermore, we have witnessed almost permanently in this country and society that exists here for 20 years in free and independent Croatia that, in addition to all the laws and oaths and vows in democracy, in tolerance and in anti-discrimination other than this segment in the employment of women, very much is expressed in our society and political discrimination in employment. I won't speak at all the names of the parties so they don't get angry, ask for a break, any of the clubs on the left or right, but we're all aware that it's very, very present. The question of which strangers you belong, so if there are equal conditions that some candidates meet, then it is known how they are admitted to work. Even this has been expressed lately, here at this time as this new government is in office to say, in the behaviour of the government in the Republic of Croatia. But we can pass whatever laws we want which are in line with the highest standards of Europe and the world, in line with the EU acquis, if we do not apply these laws, if there are neither sanctions nor sufficient opportunities to influence the change in such thinking and actions of discrimination, then we are in vain of the law. When we look at this bill of law, then it occurs to me that it's not the implications, that is to say that in France, legal-security measures are forbidden to wear a burka, is that right? And here's exactly in one of these articles you're not talking about France, but actually that's what's said as exceptions to a ban on discrimination. So one country decides in the EU, clearly one of the founders of the EU together with Germany decides, and then the European Court decides that this is indeed the right thing to do, here and now Croatia has to change and bring its law in line with this practice. That's right. There are also specific situations that are never covered by law or thinking. Some say there are no more vulnerable groups. Well, there is. Let's say a vulnerable group of left-handed ones. All left-handed women must adapt to movements, tools, machines and anything else that is typical, specific, characteristic of right-handed people. I've heard there's a store in London for everything and everything for left-handed women. Never and nowhere have I ever heard of such a store. I guess it's not worth it because it's small shows. But there's no one talking about the discrimination of the left-handed. Someone said until someone personally had something to do with this Discrimination Act, then he didn't care that much about it. And here I am, personally, in this very sense of left-handedness, I've lived through a lot of things in my life. But neither Europe nor one of us is thinking too much about it. Let them suffer. Although you have to do backhand what you could do with a forehand right hand, but good. When it comes to how it is obtained to say an anti-discrimination relationship or to raise it, it is true that it is derived from kindergarten itself, but above all from the family. He's getting out of his own house. And what we are talking about today and what has been a frequent debate in Croatia about civic education that is reportedly being introduced into schools. Croatia has its specifics, and I would like to have that education if it had already been determined by the Government of the Republic of Croatia called and placed it in the post of Croatian Civil Education. So he has his specifics and he could indeed wear a full name for Croatian civic education. Unfortunately, though, this adjective of Croatia is dear to someone, and someone is not fond of them, so there is only civil education left. Since this is also a alignment with the EU's positive regulations and legislation and the legislative proposal itself bears the label E, P.Z.E., and the HDSSB club will be in favour and raise your hand for this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15731	On behalf of the HNS club Sonja König. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15732	Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, respected deputy ministers, colleagues and colleagues. If you enter the word discrimination in a Google search engine or Wikipedia dictionary on the Internet, you will find thousands and thousands of concepts related to that word. And the most repeated are racism, xenophobia, sexism, anti-Semitism, biphobia, fascism, heterophobia, homophobia, there is no Mr. Winkovic, neonasm, transphobia, religious fundamentalism, chauvinism and the like. And all these words and all these terms are related to one word, mentioned by my already respected colleague Tyrelli, which is prejudice. Discrimination, therefore, is due to prejudice and stereotype, not knowledge, and these are unfortunately stubborn and quite resistant phenomena. Our view of the world is conditioned by our personality, life experience, and learning from family and environment under whose influence we shape our own attitudes and values, and they are quite difficult to change. That is why we need education, laws, regulations, penalties and rewards that point to socially acceptable behavior. Discrimination, i.e. disabling certain persons or groups in the exercise of their rights, is certainly not acceptable in modern democracies. The problem of the spread of discrimination is most apparent because of the unrecognizable discrimination as such. The education in the field of discrimination is largely missing from scientific and professional content. Judges and lawyers often do not have adequate education in the field of anti-discriminatory norms, nor European law norms and European first. and defeating the results of the research conducted by the Peace Studies Centre, which shows that almost 60% of respondents do not even know that there is a Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. And the same research suggests that a quarter of our fellow citizens can't describe what discrimination really is. Although it is undeniable that the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination adopted in this high home in 2008 belongs to the high civilization standards of our time. It is necessary to monitor its application continuously, i.e. Implementation and realization. This is what the European Commission does, when assessing the compliance of the law with the relevant acquis, has made observations, and the criticisms and comments that have resulted here in this law before us, these proposals to supplement the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. These amendments and amendments to the laws shall specify the procedures and measures which, in certain cases, are not considered to be discriminatory. However, this does not stop fighting for the rights of the most vulnerable social groups, because in all areas of Croatia there are numerous forms of discrimination and we meet them daily and everywhere. This is what we in HNS point to, but most of all we point to the need for education and insist on raising awareness of the harmfulness of all forms of discrimination on the development of Croatia and every other society. Since these amendments and additions to the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination are also going in that direction, the HNS Club will, of course, support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15733	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first one came from Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15734	Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15735	An apology from counterpart Antičević, replica Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15736	Okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15737	Well, here's to not discriminate against your colleague, I'll be brief. I mean, I've been listening here to all kinds of discrimination. So we should think about this once in Croatia, so I don't mind, I don't discriminate against anyone, but the expression itself, so just the meaning of the word homophobia and heterophobia. I think you thought those were the opposite terms, right, colleagues. No, they're not. Or is heterophobia more like xenophobia? That's what I'm curious about. And secondly, the word homophobia if we were to translate literally, which means, it's those who hate people. And if we were to say homosexual, then we'd know exactly what it's about, right? So we would have to in our terminology, regardless of the international, English and I don't know what kind of derivatives we find and our Croatian expression or the possibility of precisely marking the discriminated group. Homophobia itself means hating a man, homo hominis is a man, is in Latin. Therefore, we should also consider this when writing future legal proposals or discussing discrimination. That's it, no phobias, no discrimination.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15738	Thank you. Here's my colleague Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15739	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, as many clubs have supported the adoption of these amendments to the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination, so do I. Emphasise what is involved in the coordination of decisions and the European Court of Justice, the Court of Justice and the European Commission, the European Council's decisions. However, what is to note is that very soon we will need a much more detailed law that will not only prescribe the Council directives or the European Parliament's directive, or the European Court of Justice or the European Court of Justice's rulings, but which will speak to us in an acceptable language. First of all, he sends a message to addressees, i.e. all citizens, because this law covers all citizens, especially those who apply this law. I will especially mention the provision of Article 2 which is quite acceptable when we bear in mind when it comes to directives and resolutions. However, it is not entirely, but I am merely stating this, which should be done in a more comprehensive and comprehensive law in the future. It is referred to as indirect discrimination which exists when seemingly neutral persons, criteria or practices are placed, or could place persons in a more unfavourable position under the basis of Article 1(1) of this Act in relation to other persons, in a comparable situation, unless such provision, criteria or practices can be objectively, justifiably, legitimately and the means to achieve them are appropriate and necessary. Few of the citizens will understand this existing provision, because it only changes one word, instead of legally setting a legitimate goal. However, we have to use ourselves here and I think it is a good thing that the civil defender who is on his pages where the Office of the General Prosecutor has spoken to everyone is clear what direct discrimination is, but today, more subtle forms of indirect discrimination prevail, and it seems to me that there has been a much greater effort to make it clear what this is all about. This is what the Advocate General says because it is basically the content of the provision of Article 2............................................................................................................................. The law. He says vividly, "Indirect discrimination is if we give birth and drink foxes from equal high vessels since we treat them seemingly equally, but the effect will be very different for a fox that will remain thirsty by such equal treatment." I would say that in our world there is such discrimination against women. So we get one right to equalize ourselves with men with equal numbers of years we retire, but what kind of life does the average woman in Croatia live? On it I absolutely burden the family raising children and all household obligations. It's mostly standard, it's good for exceptions. So even in such conditions, women should go according to the Constitutional Court's decision and then by the law in which we have passed such a decision and brought it to life, so we can see what this is all about. So when such a norm already exists, it will take a lot of law and effort to change something in this everyday life. But interesting here is a lot of presentations have also been the situation of life discrimination based on sex, based on nation, ethicality, etc. However, it is interesting to note that any discrimination has some basis in real life and at the stage of development in which a particular society is located. So here's the report from the occupier's attorney, and we see that in 2009, that the citizens were the most discrimination was based on nationality. In 2001, therefore, under the conditions of the major crisis or the consequences of the crisis and the flare of the crisis, we see that people in Croatia are the most discriminated against on the basis of sociality and property, and only then comes in order classically to us still nationality, then sex, etc., based on health, in the police judiciary. So besides respecting the directives, except that we are obliged to transpose them into the law, I would especially like to mention what we are about to do, and that is anti-discrimination practice. Especially cheerful and gives hope to introduce civil education to schools, not to be afraid... especially from small legs that children perceive each other as friends, as allies, not as some enemy or as some kind of danger threatened by such a person. So this education school and this new class, we think we're going to do a lot of things. It is sad, but I think that this kind of politician is dying, but in Croatian recent history, many have built their political careers, we will not judge what it is because more or less of them are not in active political life, which have built a political career on discrimination and on impatience towards others especially towards people of other national backgrounds. But, you know, it's all a public farce. But what I think is underestimating the public is whether he likes it or not. But let's also say what colleague Sonja König said on behalf of her club, saying about this particular educational role but also about the economic background. In particular, she looked back at those... that's what other colleagues talked about so that they shouldn't be in a state-run institution who has such problems, so let's not be an officer with honor, let's not be a judge, let them not be mayor, let them, for example, open their bakery and then sell their own favorites their products. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15740	Thank you, too. Next up for debate, Jadranka Kosor. She's gone. She's losing her right to argue. Next reported Dunja Špoljar. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15741	Thank you, Vice President. Honored deputies, colleagues and colleagues. Discrimination means to separate, to distinguish between social, racial, ethnic, religious, individual, sexual, language, age, or other traits. Discrimination restricts or prevents the application of human rights. One of the fundamental principles in each civilised society is the principle of equality which confirms that all people are equal in rights and are worthy of equal dignity, regardless of their mutual differences on the basis of their innate or acquired personal properties. In such a light, what is the position of the woman in Croatia today? The difference in the salary of men and women on average is 11% at the expense of women. Women are also faced with an increasing level of unemployment and, unfortunately, when employed in a large number of cases, are the first on the discharge lists. Birth imbalances disappear there because we also have an almost nominal difference in pensions of around 23% again at the expense of women. The statistics listed are even scarier in the context of the position of a woman in the country or the life of a woman in the country. Women spend 10 to 12 hours working on their economy mainly vegetable growing, cleaning stables, saving poultry and milking. They spend six to eight hours in the kitchen cleaning the house in these jobs almost never being helped by male family members. They jump in when the mixer breaks down or some other machine. Although they have made it clear that the health of women in the country is the priority of a doctor only if necessary, they have an average of once a year. They often have to travel outside their home, not visit a dentist regularly. Almost 76% of women believe that Croatian society is extremely patriarchal and that is most often seen in the division of male and female affairs and in the insufficient evaluation of women's work in everyday life. When it comes to decision-making, women have the right to vote only in the case of the purchase of household equipment, or household appliances, in the case of the purchase of clothing, footwear and other child supplies, and in the selection of lunch menus. In turn, men decide on everything else: selling or buying land, farming, car shopping, and even going on vacation. The worrying result of the survey is that 4.5% of respondents admit that sometimes they experience domestic violence, and even 30% of them often face domestic violence. Therefore, the work of rural women cannot be categorized either as housewives or as work of paid workers because work and housing take place in the exact same place as the family farm economy. A woman in the country works overtime, either underpaid or unemployed, is faced with discrimination at work and in the family. Young girls from the village have a reduced ability to education because they are unable to finance transportation to school, tuition or other costs. The life of women in rural areas is often characterized by age, illness, impotence, loneliness, traffic isolation, inability to go to a doctor, to trade, lack of means for life, low educational level, indifference. Many women in the country are not health insurance or pension insurance, which makes them socially endangered at age. Therefore, women in the Croatian village must be helped to come to the starting position equally with all other citizens to prevent discrimination, but also discrimination, those positive, exceptions, special regulations, measures and practices. These measures are somewhat discriminatory, or negative towards other social groups, but they are also not unfair. I therefore welcome the possibility of exemptions from discrimination, i.e. proposals for positive discrimination offered by this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15742	Thank you, too. Next up for discussion Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15743	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Deputy Minister. Here today we heard mostly a positive atmosphere regarding this law and the proposal to amend and supplement this law, the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. When this law was first passed as a full law governing the issue of discrimination in 2008 it was known that only by implementing and monitoring the laws would it be possible to determine its shortcomings and its good side. By the time we passed this law, we had a whole series of laws, anti-discrimination provisions in a whole series of laws, so we couldn't say we didn't have anything. There was the Law on Gender Equality, on Equal Communities, the Law on the Rights of National Minorities, the Criminal Law and a whole series of other laws that regulate this issue. Protection and promotion of equality are the highest values of constitutional order, and the Law on Discretion of Discrimination has created assumptions for the achievement of equal opportunities, and it also protects against discrimination based on what both colleagues and colleagues of Grubisic have said here, which is based on racial, ethical, gender, language, religion, skin color, political belief, national or social origin, disability, genetic heritage, property status, expression of sexual orientation or gender identity. The law really covered a wide range of sciences, media, health, civil society organisations, but indeed all segments of life and society in one community. As the proposer of these amendments also stated that at the time of the adoption of this law in 2008, the European Commission had no objection to the adoption of our new whole law, it also called on Croatia to monitor the implementation of this law, but to meet all the conditions of legal gain in this area. At least those relating to the exceptions to the principle of non-discrimination, and in this sense the bill we are discussing today is also going to be proposed. These amendments regulate equal opportunities and treatment in the field of employment and calling selection. Here we heard today that almost 310 000 Croatian citizens are unemployed, more than 160,000 are women, so more than 50%. There are still complaints from the field of work, working conditions in the first place, which in our report on the implementation of this law we have been informed by the Ombudsman. That report will be and now in this agenda it's for discussion. The second in the number of complaints is the area of law and justice, but I think this is very worrying and that these 160,000 women or 310,000 of all Croatian citizens will most likely continue to send these complaints because we have seen that they are still, and these are also colleagues and colleagues who have said that in this area why the most complaints are, because even today you still find ads that are said to be exclusively employed by men, that they are exclusively employed and received in the employment relationship of a person between 18 and 30 years old, so some are too young and some are too old. It's mostly about discrimination against women. When a job is offered or an ad is announced in which women are sought, the most often limit is the possibility of reporting to that ad or to younger women or in some professions and older women. Most recently, you can track ads in a store where young, attractive and beautiful women are wanted, except they have not put a photo in the ads. On the application of the principle of equality between men and women in the ability to obtain and obtain, the purpose of providing services, this bill solves it and mainly concerns insurance companies that have differed in terms of the life insurance of men and women, i.e. the life span of men and women. Some of these changes are of a technical nature, but the main changes are presented in Article 5 of this Act and relate primarily to the regulation of marital and family relations, but as the Family Law regulates other rights, not only the family relationship within marriage, e.g. custody or adoption, then a broad debate was developed on the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities on the proposal of the Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities who in some way suggested that Article 5 be supplemented, or that it is general and that it may lead to a situation for persons with disabilities to be considered discriminatory in the process of deprivement of their business capacity, and according to this proposal which the Ministry proposed supplementing Article 5. In Article 2(2), those persons could not have called on this Discrimination Act. The committee's proposal accepted the prosecutor's suggestion for people with disabilities, and I hope that this proposal will be adopted. It is also in adoption procedures in which people with disabilities are given a negative opinion, but at the very beginning, the Ombudsman presented a whole series of examples of how they are beginning at the beginning when people with disabilities meet the adoption requirement to give a solution in which they are rejected. For example, I will read about the health condition and in part of the physical health condition. So, not mentally but physically, and therefore they are not sent further to the process and the psycho diagnostic process. So, the proposer said that it is possible to accept these very exceptions to improve this law, and I believe that everything my predecessors or predecessors said that this law was still an improvement from the law that her colleague Holly herself said on behalf of the SDP club that he was indeed a major step forward and a great contribution from the former government to resolving and combating discrimination in Croatian society. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15744	Thank you, too. On behalf of the motionary Deputy Minister, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15745	Thank you very much. Although we have reduced these amendments to harmonisation with the directives, I think it is welcome that any word that has been said that the problem of discrimination is particularly reflected because discrimination is unfortunately not the result of prejudice but is very often the result of and abuse, or the position of power, from the position of power is actually emerging and that is what is a much greater problem than prejudice. I will now try to show myself on the amendment we received from the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities, which the distinguished representative Roksandic has now mentioned. In fact, the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination determines exceptions to what could be considered discrimination in two ways - in absolute and relative terms. We are in Article 5. The Act on Amendments and Supplements provides for an amendment in Article 8 in such a way as to determine that this law does not apply to the regulation of the rights and obligations governed by family law. Such an exception is absolute. Therefore, there is no assessment whether this is a legitimate objective and proportionate interest etc. a legitimate amendment to this provision for this reason because, although Member States have full autonomy in regulating marital relations, this led us in the first round when we introduced this provision into the draft law. The Advocate General for Persons with Disabilities is right to point out that other areas governed by the Family Law, therefore areas of custody or adoption, cannot be without exception excluded from discrimination, and what remains and what is the fact for all family matters is contained in the provision of Article 6(10). Therefore, it will not be considered discrimination to place children in a more unfavourable position in the regulation of the rights and obligations laid down by the Family Law, and in particular when it comes to the rights and well-being of children or public morality or marriage benefits. However, the funds used must be appropriate and necessary. This is an important feature, so it will not be considered to be discriminatory what is such a reason that it has to be so arranged and that the arrangements for the regulation of certain rights should be so adequately and necessarily arranged not to be considered discrimination. This requires, of course, a higher level of reasoning and decision-making and, ultimately, awareness of human rights when giving or withdrawing certain rights that a citizen is seeking. In that sense, we accept this amendment, and we also had an amendment to the Office of Law. It is, in fact, the result of the fact that, in the meantime, from the moment we formed the final draft of the law, there has been an amendment that has actually been caused by the European Court of Justice. In fact, one of the directives that we have incorporated into this law is the one relating to the principle of equality between men and women in the supply and supply of goods, i.e. the provision of services. This Directive had the effect of repealing Article 5(2) of the European Court of Justice ruling and no longer has sex as a criterion for the distinction of insurance undertakings in the calculation of risk assessment. The life span was evaluated differently in terms of gender, and since this feature can no longer be a criterion of distinction, a completely new approach should be made to insurance contracts, or to calculate new tables. And now this is one specific detail thing to explain. As with all other European countries, so we cannot, within the time limit foreseen for the entry into force of this law, make an adjustment to this amendment, so that through the amendment, we have received a provision that puts this part into effect until 30 June 2013. So, until this deadline as well as other European countries and Croatia will coordinate their... Security settlement tables. [[The speaker speaks English, not understood.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15746	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15747	The following is the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Disclosure of Discrimination, the Emergency Procedure, the First and Second Reading of the PZE No. 145. The debate on the law is closed. The government of the Republic of Croatia adopted amendments submitted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. I am voting on the final draft of the law and I am asking that by raising my hand, we make a statement. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? Thank you very much. I'll get you a score. I find that most of the 89 votes for and 24 abstentions have been passed a law amending and supplementing the Law on Disclosure of Discrimination in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15748	On the proposal of the working bodies of the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice, it is proposed that these two points be held by the draft Act supplementing the Law on Court Taxes and the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Public Taxes. Does anyone mind? If not, thank you. And I suggest it will be, there will be a united debate. So, - Final proposal of the Law on Supplements to the Law on Court Taxes, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 140. - Final proposal of the Law supplementing the Law on Public Taxes, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 144. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Does the Proposer's representative want an introduction? Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15749	Thank you very much. Well, here's the short one. Although the amendments and additions to the Law on Court Taxes and Public Taxes were to be related to the Law on Commercial Companies in the part in which we proposed a new form of a commercial company, so-called ‘the company’. simply a limited liability company, in order for a simple limited liability company to be possible in practice, we also intervened in the Law on Court Taxes and the Law on Public Taxes in order to make the cost of establishing a simple society with limited liability as little as possible. So we reduced the fees relating to the court to 30 kunas, i.e. 60 total, and in negotiations with the public record chamber, we reached the lowest possible amount necessary to establish a simple society with limited liability and that minimum amount is 750 kuna. In this respect, this intervention also allows for the implementation of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Commercial Companies relating to a simple limited liability company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15750	Thank you, too. I'm opening a debate. Igor Coleman. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15751	The following is the Final Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Court Taxes, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 140. The debate on the law is closed. I'm voting on the final draft of the law, and I'm asking by raising my hand to make a statement. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I am unanimous with 109 votes for the passed law supplementing the Court Tax Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15752	On the proposal of the working bodies of the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice, it is proposed that these two points be held by the draft Act supplementing the Law on Court Taxes and the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Public Taxes. Does anyone mind? If not, thank you. And I suggest it will be, there will be a united debate. So, - Final proposal of the Law on Supplements to the Law on Court Taxes, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 140. - Final proposal of the Law supplementing the Law on Public Taxes, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 144. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Does the Proposer's representative want an introduction? Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15753	Thank you very much. Well, here's the short one. Although the amendments and additions to the Law on Court Taxes and Public Taxes were to be related to the Law on Commercial Companies in the part in which we proposed a new form of a commercial company, so-called ‘the company’. simply a limited liability company, in order for a simple limited liability company to be possible in practice, we also intervened in the Law on Court Taxes and the Law on Public Taxes in order to make the cost of establishing a simple society with limited liability as little as possible. So we reduced the fees relating to the court to 30 kunas, i.e. 60 total, and in negotiations with the public record chamber, we reached the lowest possible amount necessary to establish a simple society with limited liability and that minimum amount is 750 kuna. In this respect, this intervention also allows for the implementation of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Commercial Companies relating to a simple limited liability company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15754	Thank you, too. I'm opening a debate. Igor Coleman. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15755	Next, Final draft law supplementing the Law on Public Taxes, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 144. The debate on the law is closed. I'm voting on the final draft of the law, and I'm asking by raising my hand to make a statement. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I am unanimous with 109 votes for the adopted law supplementing the Law on Public Taxes in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15756	- Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes, First Reading, P.Z. No. 142. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. Since the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15757	Thank you very much. Here's to clarify today's agenda, so the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Liability of Legal Persons, right? Yeah, yeah. Thank you very much. We are in a comprehensive reform of criminal law and one of the amendments to the new Penal Code is that the new Penal Code changes the concept of criminal sanctions we have had since '97. A year. So the system with the new Penal Code knows the penalties and that fine, the prison sentence, and the long-term prison sentence. He then knows the security measures and knows the specific institutions of confiscation of property benefits and confiscation of objects. The confiscation of the case is no longer a security measure, now the confiscation of the case is a special institute together with the confiscation of the property benefit that the court must apply if legal assumptions are met. Similarly, according to the provisions of the new criminal legislation, a conditional conviction is no longer a particular type of sanctions but a modification of penalties. Therefore, due to the above-mentioned amendment and the addition of the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes, the termological, substantive and structural changes are being made to comply with the new Penal Code. The second amendment and intervention in this law concerns the improvement and improvement of the system of liability of legal persons for criminal offences. Therefore, legal persons' responsibility for criminal offences has existed in our legislation since 2003. We believe that there is space, and in this sense we are proposing a new provision of Article 12a that the responsibility of legal persons be raised to a higher level in terms of the academic exemption from the penalty for that legal person who reported the criminal offence to the responsible person before such an act was discovered or before it was found out that the act had been discovered. Thus, it is required that the work is not revealed or that there is yet no knowledge of how to avoid possible abuses of such an institute. The introduction of this provision seeks to motivate legal persons to report criminal offences committed by responsible persons within them without fear of prosecution. We were guided by the fact that the establishment of criminal offences within legal persons is often difficult and requires a different approach than can be applied in regular crime by the legal person himself if he wants to be freed of his legal responsibility, he has the opportunity to offer knowledge of the suspicion of a criminal offence for the persons responsible who work in it and after being released or not decided by the court. It's an essential feature of this proposal. So we have also tried through this provision to strengthen instruments, i.e. tools that would lead to the legal system functioning as much as possible, i.e. that the suspicion of criminal activities and within legal persons are sanctioned more and more frequently than is the case now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15758	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the committee, the working bodies of the Parliament want to take a word? The Legislative Committee? The Justice Committee? The Committee for Local and Regional Self-Government? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We are going to debate the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The first club is SDP representative and respected representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15759	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club supports the adoption of a proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes, and how it would not be if we, with the then coalition and proposed and adopted, were, however, a consensus in the Croatian Parliament, for the first time, the Law on Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes. It was a big new one in our legal order, if we ignore that short period behind II. World War II when we had very short provisions on the criminal liability of legal persons for commercial crimes and criminal offences. However, it was only a short time. The modern way of doing business and the work of legal persons testifys precisely that there is a great danger that they can be perpetrators of criminal acts, potential perpetrators of criminal acts, that many, especially management structures, are hiding behind legal persons. And that the modern way of killing is also talking about the fact that a serious crime in the area of economic crime is almost impossible to do without the participation of a legal person. Those serious crimes other than criminal offences, not to ignore now crimes against life and the body, but the start of crimes in the economic business area of 90 years, were mainly natural persons and their groups that were then beginners. I'd say everything we later had a chance to see as organized crime. So this is also known in the world, when such groups took off baseball bats and put on barefoot suits only then became particularly dangerous criminals. So we stand at the stand and support any changes that will strengthen just the criminal responsibility, but thus prevent and prevent the crimes committed by legal persons and those responsible in them. In light of this, in light of the modern way of doing business when they can gain unlimited profit, but unfortunately, they are limited to match, and sometimes they do not respond at all. Contemporary business conditions and particularly sophisticated forms can hardly be made available to even inspection bodies and to all those bodies in charge of checking the business of legal persons. Even when there's financial orderly business around them, there can be serious crime behind it. Therefore, by supporting all these amendments concerning the harmonisation of this law, we have nothing special to say of this bill with the Penal Code and these amendments that took place there with regard to criminal sanctions. I think we're clear here. But, in particular, here's, speaking on behalf of the SDP club, I want to look back at the change, I think it's one of the changes that there is, which will have far-reaching consequences in the discovery of crime, which is hidden in legal persons and business between certain legal persons and which will be significant for the prevention of those parts, which is always the most important. When it's a good law, it's already acting preventively. And that is a provision, a new provision in Article 12a of the law which provides for a universityal release from the sentence of a legal person who has reported the criminal offence of the person responsible before his discovery or prior to the knowledge that the act has been revealed. So, in short, the one who discovered the modus operanda that the religious muggings were being robbed and the state was being robbed, the workers were being robbed. Let's remember, during this debate and today's court proceedings where it was practically, because it's always done in a particular circle, so is business in a particular circle that only knows about and only part of management. It would be impossible to find out anything if people hadn't spoken. If they hadn't spoken, we weren't witnesses of it. We were witnesses of it. Both modern society and struggle at European level, including the whole world, are instigating these changes to the law. Because it's the only way we can find out that the most dangerous crimes behind which are the poverty of not only the believers in the broadest sense, and all the other credentials were creditors, suppliers, state workers, but how to kill is povertyed by one society, one state. So here I think when this law comes into force, I think we should talk more publicly about it. Because when a lot of people talk about it before they do, the law on how good the law or its amendments take effect already has a preventive effect. So, I don't think anything about a legal person's business is going to be the same. For example, here's how hard it is to find out, and you can have, all possible financial experts, to open the books of a legal person and even related persons who therefore do business with that legal person, that he can't perfectly detect major crime, especially manipulation of public money. It is very promising that today we have in the media that even the attention of criminal justice policy carried out by the state's attorney's office will turn their eyes and interest and on local self-government. So, generally, as you deal with public money, you can store it, for example, in a bank, in a particular bank that will give benefits to a third party. And you without a natural person to tell exactly what happened, you can't find out what happened. Therefore, I think that the Croatian public, based on this law, will be awkwardly surprised, but this is good and we need it for personal and collective publication. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15760	Thank you, too. The next club of representatives is the club of Croatian Labourists and respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15761	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The subject is in a bit of an obscenity time, but I don't think it's impeccable and it's actually important. These amendments and additions to the law are mostly technical, compliance with the Penal Code and with the procedure of not laws. The second part relating to improving the legal text, i.e. the intensity of the law, mainly speaks of this release from the criminal liability of the company to the situation means the legal person not only of the company, of course, in a situation where the criminal offence of the responsible person is reported before it is known. It's a good thing the law goes to regular procedure. I'm not sure I'd be able to offer any better solutions right now but I have a few questions that I think should be clarified before the final text of the law appears here at adoption and in public. The criminal liability of legal persons in Croatia has been legal for ten years. I'm not sure how much that brought about, and how much the process really took place under that law I'm not sure it was as much as we thought it was when the law happened in 2003. Namely, the legal entities are companies, institutions and associations of citizens who include political parties, mostly. Companies are the most common criminal offences of major crime, in the case of legal persons who commit criminal acts that harm not only any religious and financial institutions that are accompanied by such companies but also the whole state. Most of the time, it's all about destroying the company completely, pulling out the cash and putting workers on the road and these 300 and some thousands that are on the road. What are crimes that institutions of both state and private should be responsible for? We're not quite sure, nor did the law specifically deal with it. For example, there were several cases practically institutionalized sales of university and other diplomas that the institution had to know about and she knew we weren't fooling herself she knew, it's impossible to hide such a thing in a college of 200, 300 employees. Nothing happened because it somehow doesn't fit the intensities of this law. Perhaps the changes and additions should explain what kind of crime may be done in some legal persons to make things clearer. The political parties and associations so far have only had one situation, one HDZ political party has been accused under this law, practically for a criminal offence that could have been committed by any other legal person. There are perfectly certain and specific crimes that could be committed by citizens' associations and political parties whom this law has so far neither wanted nor dared to deal with. But we need to talk about what's changing today. For the right we do not have the right to change something that the applicant does not propose to change, so I would only list a few dilemmas and, if possible, respond to these dilemmas today or in the next debate. Article 5 of the talks on the range of penalties is now called fines clearly and loudly, the range of penalties and the range has changed somewhat in relation to the original text. I think it's just too wide. It sounds perfectly impossible for me that a fine can punish a legal person for some work ranging from five thousand to eight million kunas for the same kind of crime. I think that in such a wide range of courts we are actually putting in an impossible situation and it will be very difficult to even court practice or at least bring court practice closer. It will happen that for the same sentence of action, one company will pay 10 grand another 5 million. I think these ranges should narrow down and define them in some way. Article 8 is also amended as well. It shall state penalties which may be monetary or the abolition of a legal person. I suppose this is in line with the article that stayed inside, not to the authorities of local self-government and political parties, that they remain out of this possibility to abolish a legal person under this law. There are possibilities to abolish these legal persons but according to other regulations not according to this. So I'd beg the answer is it's really like that. Article 12 is therefore an attempt to open up a number of criminal offences to in any way encourage people to report a criminal offence. But I don't understand what it's supposed to look like in practice. Namely, the legal person who reported the criminal offence of the responsible person prior to his detection or prior to the knowledge that the act has been discovered may be released from the sentence. And who's going to report it in a legal person? The director committed a crime, who should report it now? Is this the way to protect the whistle? So anyone from a legal person if they report that legal person won't go after him? If that's what you could accept, if you didn't know who you should be looking at right now as the one who's reporting a felony? Because the company, every legal person and party, the company, the association, the institution of anyone is represented by its head and director. So he's the one who's invited and competent to say something on behalf of the company. I'm saying if this is whistle protection, then the intensity is good. But I'd like to ask you for an explanation. In Article 13, the amendment and the amendment amending Article 21a, which refers to paragraph 2, shall not give rise to a fine when a sentence of 10 years has elapsed from it, or a denunciation of a sentence to which it has been sent. How is it possible that the fine prescribed by the court not to be executed within 10 years unless the company has been shut down? If the company, the legal person, I'm talking about the company all the time, it's not a legal person company, so if the legal person still works how it's possible to work for 10 years not to charge the fine. I think it's simply impossible, according to our regulations, it's impossible. And the last explanation is an explanation of something that's not here. Some proceedings have been initiated, primarily against HDZ under the existing law. Whether to continue and end up according to the regulation that started it or to continue and end up according to these changes and additions. I think it should be written inside, so the procedures that have started under the previous regulation will end under the previous regulation or procedures that have started under this regulation will end according to these amendments and additions. It's possible for both of us, but we should be decided here, so I'm saying it's a good thing we have two readings, so that we can clarify these dilemmas that we might have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15762	Thank you, too. The next club is HDZ representative and respected representative Ana Lovrin. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15763	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So here is a proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes should actually be supported, because it is mainly technical harmonisation, termological compliance with the amendment, that is, with the new Penal Code, which will enter into force on 1 January 2013, as we once did in 2011, with the new Criminal Procedure Act, we have nominated this law and once again in 2007 when we brought it into line with the Council of the European Union's decision on certain directives when we increased the above amounts of penalties. But it would be interesting, this law was first passed in 2003 when the legal system was introduced for the first time and the responsibility of a legal person in the case of a found guilty person. Now there will be almost 10 years of law enforcement. It would be interesting to know how many legal persons were convicted in that time, how many powerful verdicts against legal persons, how potentially property benefits were taken away from the criminal act. Of course, there was space and could be applied this law. It was said here when a colleague spoke on behalf of the SDP club that the preventive effect, that this amendment of the law would have a strong preventive effect on everyone else, but I argue that it will not only have the laws or amendments to the law or the 2003 preventive effect. The preventive effect will be when we see that this law is applied. We can read the data from the State Attorney's report from year to year where I am a state lawyer in my reports says that criminal proceedings against legal persons are not initiated in the event of criminal proceedings against a responsible natural person and that the state's attorney himself has been giving instructions to the state's attorneys, county and municipal that in the case of criminal proceedings against the responsible person, more often and more criminal proceedings against the legal person. When it is seen that this law is indeed applicable and that legal persons are being processed, it will also have a preventive effect. As we can see now, media attention is drawing on a case against a legal person, and this may have a preventive effect. Here is so much about the application so far, 10 years is really a long time and the proceedings are small, although there have been places because many have actually been unpunished or released precisely because of the interpretation of the Supreme Court, the provision of that famous Article 337 abuse of power and unlawfully obtained property benefits to themselves or to others, and since the firm’s firm’s firm’s firm’s firm’s firm’s firm’s firm’s firm’s firm’s firm’s firm’s firm’s firm’s firmial position was finally set free because it was held that there was no crime and in this sense we have changed this article of this currently valid criminal law. So in this first group, we have already heard this from the exhibitors on behalf of the club and from the applicant's representative that they are actually termologically consistent with the new Criminal Procedure Act, so now the penalty is determined as a fine and the abolition of a legal person and as a special institution of confiscation of property benefit and confiscation of the case, so there is nothing to discuss. What could be discussed is an increase in the above-mentioned amount of the maximum suspended fine. It's good, there's arguments on one side, both pro and vice versa, so if one year of prison has been prevented from being punished against the impunity, these limits are determined below and above. I understand the applicant's intensity since very different legal entities are, therefore, legal persons of different sizes and different amounts of unlawful benefit obtained, so I find some reason for such a high range. What really is the newspaper of this law, and here's what should be commented. So that's this article, new article 12a. where it is said that a legal person who has reported a criminal offence, responsible persons prior to his detection or prior to the knowledge that the act has been discovered may be released from the sentence. It is a really good question, but it is possible, on behalf of a legal person, that criminal application could only be submitted by a person authorised to represent a legal person, and it is possible that another person in that legal person may be responsible for something. Therefore, if the person responsible for the representation is to report to the other responsible person, a legal person may exculpate. Here's the answer I'm asking what's going to happen if this other responsible person has been providing its criminal benefit to that legal person, and the legal person is being released from responsibility, which will be with the property benefits provided, and how will the legal person then, how will be taken from her. The basic postulate of criminal law must be that no one can retain any property benefit acquired by criminal acts. I am sorry that there is not only property but also any other benefit in our law. That's where the colleges were mentioned. Of course, they were not responsible colleges as legal persons, because these property benefits were not bought for the benefit of the university but for the benefit of individual individuals. But something else happened in that case, that could have been returned to the property benefit, but unfortunately it was not returned well obtained by a criminal act, and that means they were never deleted from those exams from the index because the university or colleges said they had no mechanisms to do so. We have an absurd situation that, in fact, it was acquired well by a criminal act that remained unabated. That's it. So this is the first reading, so we're going to support it in our first reading. I would like to ask the applicant's representative to explain a little bit of this Article 12. He's obviously not clear to us. Perhaps even there to point out, and to sharpen actually sanctions in a way that strengthens the conditions for a conditional conviction. According to the law so far, the sentence could only be handed down for criminal offences for which the court sentenced a legal person to a sentence of less than 50,000 kuna. Now it goes down to 20,000 kuna. It's the same thing to think about. And the limitation period for the execution of fines is dramatically increasing, so the limitation period from three years to 10 years. It's hard enough to believe 10 years can't be fined. But certainly, I would welcome the extension of the limitation period, since otherwise measures should be introduced into the system so that no one can hide or avoid their obligation until it becomes obsolete and then, in such a way, be exculpatory or pay their due duty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15764	Thank you, too, Your Honor. We're moving on to a debate, an individual debate of 10 minutes. First for the word came the esteemed representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15765	Thank you. Well, as we heard about the Law on Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes was introduced in 2003 into the Croatian legal system and we decided that, as we do for years in the case of offences and commercial offences that have been abolished and for crimes we sanction legal persons in two cases. And this is when legal persons have missed a particular action that they were obliged to do or when they have been provided with a certain asset benefit by the actions of their responsible persons. We heard from colleagues Vuljanic, and there is a right that mostly when the law was passed mostly it thought it would apply to companies. However, in Croatia we have other forms of legal personality, we have religious communities, associations, political parties, etc. and this law applies to all of them. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Thus, those legal persons who have violated their duty or have acquired a certain property benefit through the conduct of responsible persons. And it doesn't matter if the responsible person changed in the meantime. Responsible persons, administrations, party presidents are changing, however, the responsibility of legal persons remains for what they have done, for the illegal property benefit they have acquired. That is exactly what the provisions of Article 12a lay down. which is proposed to introduce this law. And I don't see anything vague in it. If a legal person reveals the conduct of a criminal offence by his own actions and, of course, helps punish responsible persons, he will be released. So she stays guilty. She's responsible for the damage she's done. Only it will not be further sanctioned by giving a fine, i.e. abolishing as the only sanctions that are possible under this law. I don't see anything controversial about it. However, I can also imagine a few situations where members of society are injured by the management of society and, let's say, find out because they were reported by the Supervisory Board. Afterwards, the change in administration and the new administration starts, or raises criminal charges against the old administration, for which, unfortunately, in a specific case, the company also corresponds, unfortunately, to those owners. Now that they're already obliged to compensate for the damage, since they're already obliged to repair what they've done, and they've discovered their own illegal conduct, I don't think it would be right if they were still sanctioned and punished. So I don't see any illogicality here. I have to talk to my colleague Vuljanic. This isn't about whistles. The whistles are different, the whistles are not responsible. The persons responsible here are those who, acting on behalf of a legal person, report the initiation of a criminal offence. If the whistler reports it means that the legal person has done nothing to detect the crime. However, as a rule, the legal person is trying to conceal such situations. It's a whole other thing. Furthermore, we were talking about increasing the sentence. I think that's what's needed. But I also think that it is also necessary to increase the range of these penalties to allow courts to individualise the punishment for each particular case of legal liability. Because there is also a colleague Lovrin who is absolutely right, the size of a legal person, the form of her conduct must be individualized because we cannot sanction someone who has violated the law and has earned 10 thousand kunas or some legal person who has not purposely used budget funds and spent 330 or more million kunas as we can read in newspapers for some legal persons today, or their responsible persons. So we need to individualize that punishment and we can't sanction those two cases in the same way. Furthermore, I'll agree with the part where parole was discussed. I think the downsizing of such a conviction on 20 thousand kunas is too low. I know that there have been some changes in the Penal Code and that here it is going to harmonize that terminology where it relates to the sentence, but I think exactly in terms of that individualisation that a conditional conviction might have to raise a little bit, or that level, and see if it's possible to build it into the law somehow. And I would finally answer my colleague Vuljanic's question when the regulation comes into force. This is about the Penal Code, a law that regulates punishment, criminal acts. It doesn't matter about legal persons and it's about one constitutional category, it's about the principle of legality. The issue of the application of this law is more than clearly resolved by the Constitution and does not need to be further addressed by this law. There's no retroactive application of the sentence. And that's clear to everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15766	Thank you, Your Honor. A replica of respected representatives of Anne Lovrin has been reported to your presentation. Here you go. You gave up? Thank you very much. Does the deputy minister's representative want a closing statement? Yeah. Here's your esteemed deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15767	Thank you very much. Well, here's a chance I'd take a chance to just briefly explain what we were thinking about with the changes. So this remark regarding the range of fines has a wrong starting point. It is, therefore, not about fines for the same criminal offence but about all possible criminal acts which provide for the possibility to impose fines. Who, on behalf of a legal person, will report a criminal offence is clear, one representing a legal person. As far as questions are concerned, how will the proceedings under way be completed will they be completed in accordance with the provisions of the Penal Code as the Penal Code will arrange. And based on this law, we only have the harmonisation of the terms concerning punishment and security measures, and this provision of Article 12, and I believe we'll just start to apply. As regards the issues raised by respecting Lovrin on the confiscation of property benefit, intervention is also the result of a different approach in determining criminal sanctions and criminal measures. So we now have a dualistic approach to criminal justice sanctions. Guilt is the foundation of punishment, and punishments are like we said the sentence of prison or the punishment of a long-term prison. And guilt would no longer be the concept of a security measure. In fact, if someone commits an illegal operation, even if so, it can be both a natural and legal person, if it commits an illegal action, society will be protected from such an illegal act regardless of the guilt it deems necessary to protect against such an illegal act and will be able to impose a security measure of confiscation of property benefit unrelated to guilt. Here, that's short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15768	Thank you, Deputy Minister. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill when the conditions are met. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes, First Reading, PZ No. 142. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. The draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes is hereby adopted. 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." By raising our hands, may we please state who is to suggest a conclusion? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I agree with the proposed end of 109 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15771	Thank you very much. What we have previously said, and this law that we are proposing is the result of criminal reform, i.e. the amendments being made under the Penal Code. Therefore, neither the new Penal Code, which should enter into force on 1 January 2013, nor the Criminal Procedure Act, no longer contains provisions that regulate the matter of criminal records, the matter of rehabilitation and the legal consequences of judgment because we have concluded that this substance is a special category which should be the matter of a special law, so this law that we propose. It's not about different institutes, they're actually closely connected, they're connected to each other. The legal consequences of the conviction appear on the day of the power of decision which determines the initiation of the criminal offence and the sentence and legal consequences of the conviction are time-limited. And rehabilitation occurs over a certain period of time after a sustained, forgiven or outdated prison sentence. Rehabilitation is linked to data from the criminal record, so it is logical and justified to unite everything in one regulation. We have also carried out certain harmonisations related to the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse and Exploitation and EU rules on the Exchange of Data from Criminal Records. We differ in the law of two types of beliefs – a general belief with complete data and a particular belief with partial data. That's how we fulfilled the so-called. Greco recommendations to protect the rights of interests of children and minors. We have prescribed a special way of looking at the general belief when a citizen asks for it for himself, and when it is officially sought. We also set rules for international delivery, i.e. for the exchange of data from criminal records. We have brought this into line with the Council of Europe Framework Decision on the organisation of content and data exchanges in criminal records and the decision to establish a single information system for criminal records, etc. Ecrisis. As far as rehabilitation is concerned, we have also intervened in existing provisions in the sense that we have extended the rehabilitation period. Especially with regard to crimes against the harm of children, and that would be about this law in short. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15772	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the Assembly's working bodies want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We will discuss the usual by representatives' clubs in the Croatian Parliament. It is the first Croatian Labour Club and respected Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15773	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm going to use only this time to point out one memo that came from the child's attorney for the bill, and since this is the first reading, I hope that the deputy minister will take into account what she hears now and that the next law, or second reading, will be taken into account. Although the specific provisions relating to keeping records of perpetrators of sexual abuse and child exploitation constitute an improvement of criminal law which thus expresses its focus on protecting the child and respecting internationally undertaken obligations. The Ombudsman also pointed out during work in the working group that the deadlines for rehabilitation were so that data from the criminal record were deleted for individual offences, the initiation of which should be an obstacle to doing jobs involving working with children, but also an obstacle to adopting or taking care of children. Despite their duplication, they think those deadlines are too short. If we properly interpret the proposed provisions, rehabilitation should take place within 6 years of the one-year sentence of prison under the provisions of this draft. So, 3+3 or from the expiry of the probation check, or within 10 years if the perpetrator is sentenced to a prison sentence of up to 3 years. In view of the case law and the level of penalties imposed, we believe that by deleting data from the criminal record within relatively short periods, the possibility of perpetrators of some acts of sexual abuse, the exploitation of the child will be opened. For example, sexual abuse of position and the like, for which relatively low penalties have been prevented, such as sexual acts of fornication, sexual gratification in front of a child. They can hire jobs that include contact with children or become foster children or foster parents. By thus jeopardizing the child’s right to protection against sexual abuse and exploitation. What the state has committed itself to by accepting the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse. This is why we are taking the opportunity to really reconsider the possibility to provide for this particular category of criminal offences for longer periods of data storage in criminal records, i.e. to provide for this category of criminal offences and the permanent storage of data in the criminal record in accordance with the practice of some European countries. They consider that only in this way could it meet the quality of the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children from Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse, which oblige the State to ensure that conditions for occupations whose conduct implies constant contact with children, guarantee that candidates for these occupations are not a condemnation of sexual exploitation and sexual abuse of children.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15774	Thank you very much. Next is SDP club and respected representative Drazenko Pandek. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15775	I thank the esteemed Vice President, Deputy Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. The legal consequences of the conviction, the keeping of criminal records and rehabilitation issues have so far been resolved by the general act of the Penal Code, the Criminal Procedure Act with a total of 6 articles, and further elaborated by the Criminal Record Regulation. We believe that it is good for the legal provisions governing this matter to be segregated into a special law, and that the provision on the content and conduct of criminal records, and the entry, giving and deleting data from criminal records, are mainly in the offices, therefore, in a special law. In the first instance, there is therefore a need to bring into the Croatian legal system provisions harmonising domestic criminal legislation with the Council of Europe Convention on the protection of children from sexual exploitation and sexual abuse, and the European Union rules on the keeping of criminal records and exchanges of data from such records. Which is rated, well done this way. Justification of the adoption of a special law is found and could be said in a certain... Rehabilitation issues, the legal consequences of conviction and the availability of data from criminal records, although it is undoubtedly very important matter. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If the legal consequences of the conviction and the possibility of the use of data from rehabilitation do not fall within criminal sanctions, they shall, however, have a kind of penalty effect which is manifested either in the ban on performing certain tasks, for example. at the end of the service. Whether in its own way of stagmatizing the perpetrators of the crime. Although the law separates the legal consequences of condemnation from the possibility of perceiving criminal records, one and the other are the consequences of convictions in a broader sense. The majority may probably agree that the basic motive for the conduct of the criminal procedure of criminal sanctions should be to reform the perpetrators of the criminal act and its social integration as a person who, I say, returns his debt to society and which should, primarily, enable society to take a life-long path that will not lead her into a situation and an opportunity to re-enhancing a new crime, such a goal. It can be said that there is some obstacle to the possibility that the perpetrator might be, for example, the perpetrator of a crime. Member States shall ensure that the competent authorities of the Member States of the Member States of the Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the other Member States of the European Union, as well as the competent authorities of the Member States of the other Member States of the European Union, as well as the competent In previous times, a kind of predicate precedes the conduct of criminal records and the existence of the legal consequences of the conviction was the stamping, which meant the release from society permanently without the possibility of returning. Generally speaking, if a person is identified as a perpetrator of a crime, as a criminal, he becomes a kind of exorcist, cannot fit into normal life, he cannot find employment that he would like and employment in general, killing him being pushed into an area where he becomes closer to re-enacting a crime. But, of course, the regulation of the legal consequences of condemnation and the provision of data on criminal records certainly has its own justification. One is justifiable social interest, that perpetrators of criminal offences are recorded and that they are prevented from being re-initiated primarily for the protection of other persons and social goods that are being protected but because of general and special prevention. Although the ideal goal of prescribing criminal sanctions should be primarily the resociation of convicted persons, we cannot clearly ignore the fact that certain individuals tend to re-advism regardless of the attempt to create conditions for them to return to the right path. It is also necessary for certain particularly responsible jobs, such as certain business tasks, to work with children, of course, to have the possibility of checking people who apply for such jobs. For example, the need to protect children outweighs the need to enable a convicted person to return to society as easily as possible. With regard to certain values to be protected clearly, the risks that exist from relapsers cannot be allowed. In this regard, we cannot deny that, as a rule, there is a certain dose of relapse and the lack of access to criminal records would make it very difficult for law enforcement authorities to act and work. For all these reasons, it is clear that there is a need to find a good measure between the marking of the perpetrators of the crime that would lead not in some way to prevent them from returning to their social environment and the necessary needs of society to protect against relapsers. Historically, we can monitor the development of a concept of rehabilitation from the lifelong marking of the perpetrator to the pursuit of the priority resociation of convicted persons. It's like that. The 1959 Penal Code novel added to eradicating only minor convictions so severe the convictions remained unlimited in the records to make further changes to the full rehabilitation model. As regards an extremely sensitive area which has certain penal effects on the perpetrator of a criminal offence, it is certainly clear and comprehensive normification that contributes to legal certainty and to facilitating the interpretation and conduct of the competent authorities. A law which is now lex speciales in this area removes the possibility of different interpretations that could have been passed later in law and as we have in previous court practice in relation to the provisions of the Penal Code so far, and protects the legitimate interest of society to enable in certain cases the criminal record to be seen in order to prevent the perpetrators of criminal offences from repeating their crime but also protects the right of perpetrators of criminal offences to rehabilitation after the passage of certain laws of prescribed time limits. As regards this different interpretation of the provisions of the law, Article 2 needs to be amended to date as regards the legal consequences of the conviction when it was determined that they could only occur if the perpetrator of a criminal offence with intent was sentenced to a prison sentence of at least one year and no conditional conviction was applied. It is now prescribed that the legal consequences of a criminal offence can only be prescribed by law which essentially respects the fact that certain specific laws had the need to attach to the legal consequences of a conviction to any conviction, therefore for certain offences. The argument that this law pays particular attention to a greater extent than before has been the case for general and special prevention is considered to be a finding and confirmation of the extension of the deadlines for the rehabilitation in relation to the order so far. The extension of these deadlines, as well as the increased diversification of these deadlines, is seen as an excuse to observe the movement of relapses among the perpetrators of certain criminal offences and the comparative practice. However, despite these extended periods of rehabilitation, the new law still allows for greater legal certainty for the people for whom rehabilitation took place. This makes it... by legally prescribing their right to review data from criminal records and by transferring the decision on the appeal to a solution, which the ministry refuses to request to establish that the rehabilitation has taken place and that the public administration to the administrative court is now providing for more levels of judicial protection. They would also point out to a positive provision in relation to the previous provisions that the records of educational measures imposed on minors and minors are now headed by the Ministry of Social Care, which we consider to be suitable for reforming and resocialising minors and minors who have committed a criminal offence. The SDP Club will support the adoption of the Law on the Legal Consequences of Criminal Records and Rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15776	Thank you very much. The next club is the HDZ club and respected representative Ana Lovrin. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15777	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, of course, the adoption of this law should be supported in the first reading, first of all, for reasons why if we do not pass this law by the end of the year, there will be a legal gap and this area will remain legally unregulated according to the current situation, given that the provisions so far on the legal consequences of the conviction, criminal records and rehabilitation have been contained in the provisions of the Penal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. I think we will all agree that these provisions are in several articles of the Penal Code, and it seems to me that two articles in the Criminal Procedure Act that this area was legally undernourished and that it was dealt with through the rule. In addition, we keep it justified that this part of legal regulation is regulated by law and that there are clear relations because it is not a matter of insignificantness, so it is a matter of basic human rights that when persons serve their sentence they have to be considered unjudged and have all the rights as well as all other persons and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Of course, there are exceptions where data from the criminal record can be requested. So I will only problem a few articles because it is a first reading and that the text can be clarified or corrected by the second reading. So, first of all, I would like to say that it is good that this legal text has been brought into line with European legislation primarily with the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Abuse and Sexual Abuse. This solved the problem of which there was a lot of talk, you remember whether or not a pedophile register is needed. One shift has certainly been made here and the move has been made so much that the first period for rehabilitation in relation to the crimes committed against children has doubled in relation to other crimes, but also that the courts, public authorities, institutions in the process of protecting the rights of children's interests, as well as in the procedures for trusting certain jobs and tasks in working with children, that, on a reasoned request, special assurances can be provided with data from the criminal record here now for the offences listed below. I am talking about Article 13(4). In this sense, I warn of one perhaps nomotechnical awkwardness, or the possibility of better stipulation. Article 14 thus speaks: no one has the right to require citizens to submit evidence of their judgment or indemnity. And then paragraph 2 says: Exceptionally, when it comes to establishing a working relationship or trusting a job whose conduct involves regular contacts with children, the employer may, with the consent of the person, request the issue of a special conviction. This would be an exception to the first paragraph if the employer would ask that one who wishes to be employed to bring such a belief but, as far as I read in paragraph 2, it is not required to bring in a person applying to employment, but the employer will then request the delivery of a particular conviction on data from the criminal record. It appears to me, therefore, that this paragraph 2 would be the place in Article 13, i.e. that it should be included in Article 13, paragraph 4, to unite that the employer in the dealings with children also has the right to submit a request to the Ministry of Justice for a particular assurance of the data contained in the criminal record. One more thing in Article 13 and that is good and it has not been in the Criminal Code so far, and I think in this section that regulated the criminal record it was extremely bad that it was not, and that is the obligation of the Ministry to supply to commercial courts authorised to enrol in the court register a particular belief containing information on the security measure imposed on the exercise of a particular duty or activity of the person of the founder or person authorised to represent. So, according to official duty, it will be delivered to the court register. I am now asking why, in paragraph 3 of that same article, it says that the data referred to in paragraph 2 in relation to a craftsman or person authorised to represent or represent other legal persons not registered in the court register of commercial courts may, in particular, be supplied by the Ministry to the competent authority for the keeping of the register. So I see no reason why these security measures would have to be reported by the Register of Trade Court, and would not have to notify other registers involving craftsmen or other legal entities. So I think the ministry should also act off and deliver it to all registers. In particular, I am bound by Article 17 of which the provision is to be typed in such a way as to state that the Ministry of Justice will inform the court or other register in which that legal person is registered, and this same statement should be used to resolve both paragraph 2 and paragraph 3 of Article 13. I think other provisions are still to be considered, and that is precisely what Article 14 says as a protection of human rights that no one has the right to require citizens to submit evidence of judgment or indemnity. However, there is an exception in paragraph 3, says a person has the right to request data from a criminal record for himself if it needs these data for the purpose of exercising a right abroad or an international organisation. What does that mean? This means that a person has the right to see his criminal record, can look at it but cannot multiply it, copy it, etc., but only when he has the right to request data from a criminal record, so a natural person then if he needs it abroad or an international organisation. We are witnessing that in practice banks, foreign banks based abroad, actually require their employees to bring such certificates of impunity, in a way that they are represented as foreign legal persons and that this should actually be done abroad, and it is actually about the employment of Croatian citizens in banks in Croatia. So perhaps it should be a little clearer to streamline that it may be said to exercise the right abroad according to the country's regulations or something like that. I would like to warn here of one more thing and the situation which may not be the subject of the regulation of this law, but since it is here with us the representative of the Ministry of Justice I keep warning it, and these are the details of whether someone is being prosecuted and unfortunately not networked in Croatia and not in one place. I appeal to the Ministry of Justice to do so for the reasons that many employers, many laws prescribe that in the course of employment or the exercise of certain rights, a confirmation should be made that it is not against a particular person's criminal proceedings. What happens, if it comes to the exercise of a right, for example, in Zagreb, is logically required to bring a certificate of impunity, a confirmation is brought from a Zagreb municipal or county court, and that person can be prosecuted, for example, in Split or Dubrovnik, and no one will ask for information from all courts. If we had a networked record, then we would ask for information about not being conducted in any court in Croatia for criminal proceedings against that person, and since it may actually be only a technique I warn that this should be resolved, as we will probably one day be able to obtain unique data on data from land books for all courts in one place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15778	Thank you, too. We've exhausted a list of registered representatives' clubs on this subject. We're moving on to an individual debate of 10 minutes. The first is also the last respected colleague, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15779	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here's a very short one. I think there should also be no exception to support this bill on the legal consequences of convictions, criminal records and rehabilitation. Each country, first of all, every authority that is safe within itself, takes care that the legal consequences of condemning as well as all the criminal records themselves, and then, accordingly, rehabilitation leads to the fact that they are not more difficult, are not more devastating than the punishment itself. We have had in our recent legal history in this area after the 1990s and the amendments to the Penal Code that the legal consequences of the convictions were especially mentioned by some of them at that time, so they were shown as a feature of a particular regime, which has been quite wrong in recent years, so since 2007, the eighth and ninth, and especially the last time, to be pressed by events and what, and even in many of the situations that are being paid to court today, so we have to really think about what would have to be the legal consequences of the conviction. Once upon a time there was a confiscation which was always a good part and the confiscation of illegally acquired property although it was not called that, but we also had a special institute illegally acquired property. But I'm going to concentrate here on these three concepts that are discussing this bill. So first of all, I'm going to say something about the legal consequences of the conviction. The legal consequences of the conviction in no way will therefore be determined by law. The breadth, the beauty of these legal consequences of judgment must be so and must be in some way and clearly marked. It can't be harder than the punishment itself. No one can be excluded from social, public life for his former convictions. If the state believes in itself, if it believes in its penalty system that it is also educational and that it is worth sending it there to repay debt to the state for what it has done. The only exception could be there and I think it should be the subject of amending the law regarding state officials. Therefore, the one who was involved in the public business, which was at the disposal of taxpayers' property, and this job has been misused by public speaking and should be prevented. Not to be surprised at such a situation later, it is possible that someone who was a politician was convicted, endured a sentence and then founded a party and went into a political struggle. I'm certainly not in the mood for his active electoral rights to be lifted. In fact, it's a good thing we have it, so that's how it's voted in our penitentiary and in our prisons. But in any case, the legal consequences of such a politician should also be for such persons a prohibition of public action. That's not some... The past. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, the ban on a certain time of public withdrawal by those persons who have committed a criminal offence by performing their political duty, not professional, but political duties, because it is a special danger. It's like a ban so at least during a certain time that it has passive voting rights. I think that we need this at the current stage of development and all the troubles our society faces, so tomorrow or in due course we wouldn't be surprised at some situations that we need to prevent first of all, and a good legislator and a good promoter predicts situations that are in sight or that can happen. When it comes to rehabilitation, I would just like to point out that it seems personal to me that the conditions for a rehabilitation in view of the deadlines are quite strict and that practically, therefore, if you have a sustained sentence of a long-term prison after that, and we know how long she is after that for another 20 years, so from the day of an old or sustained sentence a person cannot be rehabilitated. It seems to me that these deadlines are too strict and that a reduction should be seriously considered. Why am I saying this? Not that we're just going in favor of those people because we care, so if we're watching this law together with the Penal Code, then we all care about those convicts getting better in prison. We talked today and about improving the conditions that should certainly be done because without these conditions everything else is pointless. That this is in some way an incentive for them, therefore, that they are not written off, that society is counting on them. If you have long periods of rehabilitation, then society has written them off and can only have with him, with such persons problems. We see that too harsh punishments in some crimes that are not justified so high that we have the highest percentage of relapsers in such persons. So, a person has to take that punishment as just, above all, as justly provided for by criminal law. I'm not going to talk about penalties now, but then when they're supposed to, they're mostly about that kind of middle level and they point out. As far as these criminal records are concerned, I think everything that's been filed in the law that can hardly be improved in particular. But here's to think a little bit about some general concept that contains this bill that speaks of the legal consequences of the conviction and I ask the Proposer to consider these conditions, or to reduce the rehabilitation deadlines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15780	Thank you very much. Does the Prime Minister want a final word? There you are, your esteemed deputy minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15781	Thank you very much. So here's what this is all about, is actually finding an appropriate balance between what we want to achieve with the rehabilitation deadlines and with the objectives of generally criminal law and criminal law, penal and post-penal policy. We've been thinking here, we've decided to double the time for eradicating convictions related to crimes, sexual crimes against the harm of children, and what you've been saying regarding the prosecutor's objection to children, so we've doubled the deadlines not all the countries have accepted this model or that model. It is also the subject of debate in legal circles, and we are one of the countries that deals with its policy of dealing with the perpetrators of these crimes of hope in rehabilitation and we believe that during this period that we have determined, and as I said, we have doubled it, that certain effects in terms of rehabilitation can happen. Of course, it requires much greater engagement than the one that comes down to the fact that such punishment is never deleted from the record. I'd like to clarify Article 14's provision in short, if I may. So, this exception of no one having the right to support evidence of indemnity is precisely related to these crimes. We talked and there was a media-exposed theme about so-called. Pedophile registration, I wouldn't call it that, but that's what the media was saying, so it's not the point, and it's not the goal of giving everyone insight into such data, especially because even because of the sensitivity of the subject it can and very easily become the subject of abuse. So there's no point in letting someone check whether his neighbor or his employer is a pedophile. We have decided on that variant that I think is the most practical and the best, so any employer who employs workers who work with children may require that evidence be provided that such a person running to such a workplace has not been convicted of crimes against the harm of children. And if we already have a provision like this now, we're sure that we'll have a selection of those who appear in such places, and they're possibly convicted because they won't even file demands. Of course, there is the greatest responsibility for those who are employed to be aware of obligations, that is, the possibility of such conviction and of seeking to protect children from whom they employ them. That's what's short, so that I don't already have any longer, of course, we'll appreciate it until the second reading and consider everything that's been said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-09-26-0.u15782	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. That concludes the list of respondents to the debate. I'm closing the debate. Today's work plan has been implemented. Tomorrow, the Croatian Parliament will begin its plenary session at 9.30 p.m. with agenda item Final proposal of the Financial Business Act and pre-profit settlement, then the Final Proposal of the Act amending and supplementing the Act on the acquisition of stock companies and the Final Proposal of the Act on the Completion of the Credit Institutions Act, etc., etc. Thank you very much for today. I'll see you tomorrow at 9.30. Good rest. Next, Proposal for a Law on the Legal Consequences of Convictions in Criminal Records and Rehabilitation, First Reading, PZE No. 149. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals from the working bodies of the Assembly, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. A proposal for a Law on the Legal Consequences of Convictions in Criminal Records and Rehabilitation is hereby adopted. 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." By raising our hands, may we please state who is to suggest a conclusion? Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I am unanimous with 109 votes, and the proposed conclusion has been reached.
