ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4515	My colleagues and colleagues have a good day. We're going back to work. The proposal is to unite the agenda points. It means the first item of the agenda - Final proposal for the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union Programme Criminal Law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 40. - Final draft law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Special Programme Civil Law, emergency procedure, P.Z. No. 41 On behalf of the promoter, I would like to ask the Deputy Minister of Justice, Mrs. Sandra Artuković Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4516	Dear MPs and MPs are here before us a proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union Programme Criminal Law and in the Specific Civil Law Programme with the final proposal of the law. The EU programme Criminal Law and the Special Civil Law Programme are part of the General Programme Fundamental Rights and Justice. The Government of the Republic of Croatia in the previous term made a decision to initiate the procedure for the conclusion of the Memorandum of Understanding, but in order for the Memorandum to become an integral part of the legal order and to bind us, it is necessary to pass the Law on its validation. In order to participate in the EU Programme, the Criminal Law and the Special Civil Law Programme Croatia should assume certain financial commitments. Namely, part of the membership fee to be paid in the EU will be paid to 90% of the IPA programme, while in the remaining 10% of the RH in the first year and 80% in the second year. Since the Memorandums in that Part create financial commitments for the Republic of Croatia and, on the other hand, do not require the adoption of new or amending existing laws and it is necessary to confirm them in accordance with Article 18. The law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts is proposed to confirm the memorandums in order to become the legal basis for the participation of the Republic of Croatia in those programmes. The basis for the adoption of this law is set out in Article 159. It's a matter of urgency. We received a statement from the competent authorities, and the amendment was put on a shortcut relating to a specific programme of criminal suicide, i.e. a shortcut of the English name was used, so the amendment suggested using the Croatian shortcut – a special criminal law programme. So we have accepted this amendment and incorporated in the proposed drafts of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union, and given the approved amendment and I propose that the laws be adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4517	Thank you very much. We're starting a debate on behalf of the Advocacy Club. The first one was registered by the SDP MPs' club, a divided debate. First representative Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4518	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club supports the proposal of the Law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the EU Criminal Law Programme. Therefore, as we have now heard from the opening representatives of the legislator, the Memorandum is hereby confirmed in order to make its provisions in accordance with Article 141. The Constitution became part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia, and in this Programme the Penal Law is part of the General Programme Fundamental Rights and Justice. Therefore, by confirming the Memorandum, the Republic of Croatia will also be able to make possible in those projects intended primarily for the education of judicial officials, as well as to promote and strengthen judicial cooperation based on mutual recognition of judicial decisions. In fact, the education of judicial officials through various programmes has improved primarily the quality of the work of the trial in the Republic of Croatia. However, it is immediately noted that education, and the permanent education of judicial officials, both judges and state lawyers, should not be dragged away on their own judges and must not go to the expense of their regular work, their regular tasks based on the Constitution and the law, which is the trial. However, education itself must be in service and the speed and quality of decision making. Unfortunately, we must also note by the judicial authorities themselves that often the outbreak and education of judicial officials often distances them from their basic task. Of course, this should be taken into account, I repeat that education itself is not only in the service of quality but also in the speed of judicial decisions. We have seen, therefore, from different reports and here is the draft budget that the Republic of Croatia pays to the very damaged parties where the courts have not decided, decided within a reasonable period and how much Croatia stands and cash, and not to mention how much there is inconceivable repercussion to respect the citizens themselves, the institutions themselves, but also the reputation of the judicial authority. It is equally important that this programme strengthens judicial cooperation based on mutual recognition of judicial decisions. And in this too, here on behalf of the SDP Club, I note that we have a situation which in some ways disabling our judicial authority that confuses citizens, in some ways deconcentrates in that respect, but also about the necessary reputation that must have judicial authority in order for its decisions to really be so public and accepted. It's not just how we've tried to jump in all these years, so not only to recognise court decisions, but also to execute judicial decisions in the countries that were created by the former states. We note that we have a whole series of cases that our decision has not been recognised in EU countries because many have escaped from our judicial authorities and that is when they have received a judicial verdict and are hiding in EU countries because, in the meantime, or somehow, they have been parallel to the conduct of these crimes or before the verdict is given to some of the EU countries. As is the general programme of fundamental rights and justice, we believe that justice will also be served in this sense and our decisions by the powerful judicial decisions of the Croatian judicial authorities will be recognised and then carried out in any EU country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4519	Thank you. Mr. Representative Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4520	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Madam Deputy Minister. Decision No 1149/2007 of the European Parliament and of the Council established a specific civil law programme under the Fundamental Rights and Justice Programme. That programme for the period from 1 January 2007 to 31 December 2013 provided the EU with considerable resources up to 109 million euros for projects concerning cross-border civil affairs cooperation, promoting the possibility of enforcement of decisions taken by one Member State in the area of another Member State, training of legal professionals, not only by judges but also by other lawyers, notaries, etc. who participate in all these procedures. Such a programme by decision of the EU or of the European Council and Parliament may be extended to certain non-member countries of the Republic of Croatia. Given that the possibility of the Republic of Croatia is foreseen by this programme, I think it is very useful to accept this programme. Namely, as we have seen from Ms. Deputy Minister's presentation of funds that the Republic of Croatia will have to invest in implementing this programme are extremely small. Today, many civil legal relations do not stand at the borders of a country. They cross the borders of another country and often face major problems. From non-recognition of one country's rights and regulations to the inability to learn the contents of those regulations. This is exactly the kind of programme that encourages the EU to go towards removing such problems. Given the amounts provided by the EU in view of the above-mentioned resources that we must invest in this programme, I believe it is extremely important to accept this programme and I believe that this law should be supported. That's why the SDP club accepts such a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4521	Thank you. Next on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, representative Mr. Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4522	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, the esteemed deputy minister, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. The HDZ Club supports the confirmation of these two memos ahead of us today, so two memorandums of understanding. One relating to the Civil Law Programme, the other relating to the Union criminal law programme. The programmes created in 2007 are based on a decision by the EU Parliament and the Council, and the aim is to contribute to significant funding for those projects that achieve the objectives of the European area of freedom, justice and security, which is one of the priorities and the Lisbon Treaty, but was also recorded in the Hague programme and in the EU's Stoholic Programme. Today, however, we need to put into context these two agreements because they were created when Croatia completed pre-accession negotiations. As they emerged in close cooperation with the Vice-President of the European Commission, Ms Vivian Reading, who has played a key role in closing Chapter 23 on Justice and Fundamental Rights over the last year of the negotiations. She has stayed several times in Croatia, she has made a key political contribution within the European Commission's college, and I would say the professional legislation for reforms that Croatia has implemented in meeting the criteria for closing Chapter 23. This was particularly important about a year ago when the commission worked its inter-report on meeting those obligations, which I would have said in early April left with an open question whether the negotiations would end or not. And during that period, the co-operation with Mrs Reading as well as former Minister Bosnjakovic, who made a major contribution, was crucial to meet the requirements and to conclude Croatia's negotiations in June. It is also important to say that these agreements were reached in Brussels on 15 December several days after the signing of the accession contract when for the first time the Croatian minister, Minister Bosnjakovic, at the time, participated as an active observer in one of the council formations. Speaking of the content of the programme itself and the obligations arising from the signing of these two memos, it is necessary to say that the financial contribution I would say is indeed symbolic given the potential benefits that Croatian partners and Croatian institutions can achieve by using these two programmes. In fact, 85 and 90% of these funds will be financed through the 2008 IPA programme. And this is, in a certain way, the continuity of the high-quality use of pre-accession aid in the past period in the field of justice in the IPA component as a complementary type of activity both in the context of World Bank loans and in the context of a number of bilateral activities with other Member States in the area of justice. What is also important is to say that the Ministry of Justice as the holder of the Croatian side of participation in this Union programme will also have the opportunity to participate as an observer on the boards of directors of these two programmes. I hope that during this period before us, representatives of the Ministry of Justice will indeed participate in the work of the Committee since we have recently had the opportunity in the media to see that, after Croatia has been unable to obtain the status of an active observer, we have come into the situation that there are meetings of working groups of councils, especially those of the judiciary, which are allegedly not possible for Croatian experts to participate in the meetings in Brussels for what financial reasons the media is writing. I think it's one practice we should never allow during the period of active observation. It is also the purpose of this period that Croatian experts are directly, firsthand, to understand how decisions are made, how regulations are made at European Union level. And that is why I appeal to the Ministry of Justice, but possibly other resolutions that have failed to send their representatives to the Council meetings in Brussels of various formations, so we are talking about a level of expertise because it is one of Croatia's obligations and something that will certainly be closely monitored by all of our partners and will be taken into account by bringing our own judgment on whether we are well meeting those obligations that we have committed ourselves to on the occasion of the conclusion of the negotiations. I also believe that there are two very important deadlines ahead of us, so deadlines for project submissions in the context and civil law programme and criminal law programmes are March and April, which means that the Ministry of Justice should be very quick to sensitise potential partners in Croatia. I mean universities, I mean law schools, a law chamber, a public record chamber, civil society organisations, all those who are able to make projects with their partners in the Union and get funds to be realised in the period ahead. Looking at projects that other Member States have realised over the past few years, we see that the amounts of funds that can be withdrawn are between 90 and 300 thousand euros. Therefore, these are serious projects that can certainly contribute to further meeting key actors in Croatian society, especially those who are in practice engaged in the right to know about other members of the European Union and better and more efficient preparation for the implementation of the acquis. The HDZ Club supports confirming these two memorandas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4523	Thank you, fellow Plenkovic. Next on behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, Mr Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4524	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs, gentlemen of the ministry. The HDSB Club will also support proposals for the law on the confirmation of two memos, a Memorandum of Understanding between the EU and the Republic of Croatia on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the EU Criminal Law and Memorandum programme, to cut short in the specific Civil Law programme. It is clear that the memorandum signed by the former and then Minister of Justice on 15 December 2011, so just over two months ago and in which it is determined that Croatia fully agrees with Chapter 23 participates in criminal law, i.e. the acquiss of the EU, and criminal and civil law. And here is today on the benches this legal proposal for criminal law and participation in criminal law programmes writes that, on page 2 in the assessment of the funds necessary for the implementation of this law, it is necessary for 2012, 2013 in total about 300 thousand kuna, and in the implementation of the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Civil Law programme somewhere around 150 thousand kuna, which totals about 450 thousand kuna. These funds are well funded and co-financed from the 2008 IPA programme. So, given that the chapter of Freedom, Law and Security, Chapter 23, was almost the last obstacle to the signing of the contract between Croatia and the EU, I think that here also the HDSB club can join and join the assessment that these legal proposals should be accepted. It is interesting, however, that when the materials are read little and the additions listed here are seen, Appendix 1 relating to the financial framework, and then Appendix 2 which is interesting in that the Commission or OLAF is authorised to carry out on-the-spot checks and inspections in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, and in accordance with the procedural provisions of the Council. Therefore, these checks and inspections shall be prepared and carried out in the territory of the Republic of Croatia in close cooperation with the competent Croatian authorities to be informed in due time of the objective, purpose and legal basis of checks and inspections in order to be able to provide all necessary assistance. If Croatian authorities want on-site checks and inspections can be carried out together with them. If programme participants resist on-site checks or inspections by the Croatian authorities, they shall act in accordance with national rules to give OLAF inspectors all necessary assistance to enable them to carry out their tasks in on-site checks or inspections. Here are the provisions in Appendix two, which should be clearly explained to the citizens what is really going on here except for those programmes spoken of by the esteemed colleague Plenkovic where projects and programmes of the judiciary, in line with the acquis of the European Union, can, in some good programmes, bring certain benefits both in the experience and in the application of Chapter 23. The legal gains of the European Union are clear experience and our people who can therefore fully participate in and I should say both education and the application of the legal acquis of the European Union through the programmes and projects that need to be seen as said by my colleague and dear colleague Plenkovic to report by now here we are in March. March is here, April of this year. But for the sake of citizenship, it is also necessary to point out this when it comes to measures to control or combat the fraud of the community that, therefore, both with this memorandum and definitely in addition to two words, let's say that, in short, OLAF has the full right to monitor, verify the inspection and on the territory of the Republic of Croatia with or without participation of Croatian relevant institutions and authorities, and clearly, with timely notice of the Croatian authorities. Once again, the HDSSB club will accept these two legislative proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4525	Thank you. We're done discussing clubs. There are no reports of individual hearings. On behalf of the promoter, do you want to contact? Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4526	Thank you, Mr. President. I would like to thank the honourable MPs and MPs for the affirmative debate on this proposal for a law on certification in the section concerning the proposal. An amendment to the Committee on Justice has been set up with regard to the accelerator used, which was incorporated in English in the draft law. Of course, we will use the Croatian shortcut to align both proposals for the certification law and the one relating to criminal and special civil rights programme, so we accepted the amendment as a whole and incorporated it into the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4527	Thank you very much. I'm concluding a debate on these two points. The vote will be when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4528	We move to a statement on the final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the EU programme Criminal Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 40. The debate is closed. The amendment submitted by the Committee on Justice was accepted by the applicant and became an integral part of the final draft law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get involved and vote. ... P.Z. No. 40. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Because you haven't heard from counsel? ... I'll tell you again, but I'm asking you to do it in the future. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Is that supposed to happen again? ... Thank you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So let's get involved and vote. ... It's not worth most of it. It's worth some. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you. ... Thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Do you hear me now? ... Then I'll raise my voice a little bit. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I find that most votes with 124 for, 3 against and 1 abstentions have been passed by the Confirmation Act... Now, please listen to the law. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Therefore, I find that most votes have been passed by the Law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the Republic of Croatia and the European Union on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the EU Penal Law programme as proposed by the Proposer. Have we heard from you now? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4543	We're going to the next item on the agenda. This is - The Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on a special rate of payment of tax debt caused by the economic crisis, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 44. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance, the State Budget, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy. You've received reports. I welcome the representatives of the proposer. On behalf of the promoter, I would like to ask the Minister, Mr. Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4544	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. In front of you is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on a special amount of debt collection caused by the economic crisis. A law that also tried to provide support to economies because of the crisis in business, because of the crisis we have on the European market, but also on the Croatian market, and which did not significantly produce results in changing the situation in the economy. Well, maybe a few figures in this opening statement that I'd like to point out. When we talk about this one of the biggest problems in Croatian hospitality, which is the total indifference that we have in the system that is unfortunately still being recorded in the upcoming trends and which is approaching 42 billion at the moment, which means that many of the support we have given in that part of the liquidity has not been resolved. Because even after the adoption of the Law on a special measure of debt collection, we had no major change in solving the problem of indifference. The government also believes that more important changes with this law will also not be made when we talk about inequitableness for the reason that the basic law relating to a special measure law in some way has overall agreed about a billion and a half kuna of tax debt that we have time-crossed to 30 months. If we knew that I would say our claims based on the tax debt of the so-called so-called. living legal persons and natural persons, so for those of us who know that we can still really charge about 25.8 billion then we really can't be satisfied that out of these 25.8 billion of these totals, one small part was only refinanced or reprogrammed for 30 months. The question remains whether further support in this part of improving the liquidity of certain legal entities continues to operate or not. Of these 25.8 billion, the largest part really relates to the tax claims of the state budget itself, and somewhere over 21 billion of which VAT 7 billion, unfortunately contributions to pension first pillar 6 billion, health 5.5 billion, profit billion and 300 and remaining claims on our taxes are the rest of it. We see, unfortunately, that there is an increasing indiscipline in the payment of salaries related to contributions, and that is why the Ministry of Finance has begun preparations since the beginning of this year to prevent further payment of net wages without payment of contributions. It's always the basic problem of what to do with claims from earlier years. We all expect or have our own debates in this House have shown that tax administration is expected to raise tax discipline, which means treating each debtor in a way that takes all payment measures, which means blocking accounts and launching bankruptcy procedures. And precisely in such a situation where we want the efficiency of the administration raised under the new tax obligations that occur this year, and most of all about the contributions, related to VAT, we have assessed that by resolving the non-payment of commitments for last year, we could come before you with another proposal to try to help the economy in part of the outstanding liabilities for the period from the law to 31 January of this year. The government is aware that the proposal of these support unfortunately goes towards unsettled debtors, according to those who are not responsible for taxpayers, who solved their problems by tax non-discipline, which is, in view of the competitiveness of the market, a measure which, in part, is not positive for all those economic operators who are successfully coping with the crisis, who seek to be responsible for their tax obligations. But aware that we must change the behaviour of the Tax Administration that we have no longer the right to tolerate irresponsibility and inability to behave responsibly according to tax obligations by legal entities then the government has assessed that the proposal to amend and supplement this law is proposed by the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, the fact that huge indifference, the fact that irresponsible entities are legal and in the last year any who have simply increased unpaid liabilities to the state, was a good part of this related to unpaid contributions, that it is necessary to change the practice of the Tax Administration and not allow any further tolerance of unpaid liabilities by the Government to propose some amended law that we had in 2010. The proposal is to enable all those who have not paid their tax obligations, regardless of whether they are only State revenue or are total tax revenue with local self-government units, from 30 to 36 months, which means all outstanding liabilities by 31 January of this year are estimated to have to be made possible by legal persons at the disbursement of 36 months. We also estimate that all requirements are available in the Tax Administration to be processed in just 30 days, and with the amendment, we will propose a reduction of the tax administration's deadline so that, with some end of March, we will be ready to change the way the IRS behaves against non-payments. This proposal that is before you also has a new part of the proposal, which is that the government is thinking about what to do with interest rates that are accounted for at a very high rate, and then we estimate that the non-payment of commitments has partly arisen from the difficult and business situation, but probably also the difficult situation in the payment system of the Republic of Croatia, and due to the non-payment, there has been an accounting and tightening interest which essentially made the situation more difficult for these entities. This is the reason why the government is thinking about what to do to make it easier for those entities to pay their debts in a way that might still be able to pay their debt to suggest that interest is abolished if, within 30 days of defining their real debt to the State, they write off interest. The reason is the economic situation, probably the difficult conditions of business in the economy, but on the other hand, the unreally high amount of interest which, in such conditions of liquidity in Croatia and in such conditions of poor business activity and a large number of unemployed, has affected us to suggest that we write off the interest if all debts are paid once. On the other hand, and our interest in the Ministry of Finance is to try to collect as much debt as possible from the previous period, so it is an estimate that the possibility of offering to write off interest is something that will interest legal entities. Again, and the very clear view of the Government as much as it is to help legal entities in difficulty, as much as it can help them, we are aware that this is in some way detimulative towards responsible legal entities that carry out their obligations in the Republic of Croatia responsibly. Unfortunately, if we were to observe the period of the last 10 years, you will see that the government's support has always turned to very problematic companies and sectors in the Republic of Croatia that we have always tried to help those who have been tormented with the survival of the market and competitiveness in the market. And unfortunately, spending both the energy and resources of taxpayers to address these problems is often the necessary needs for those sectors that we may have been able to isolate because they are developmental because our exports to Europe and the world are also competitive. This eternal dilemma of how to properly direct support whether to treat the sick or to maintain the health of those who are successful is likely to be present for several more years in this Assembly and before the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, we opted to try in 2012 a complete resolution of liquidity placed as a priority job. This is a measure that will allow us to try to give opportunity by the end of March to all those who assess that, with a reprogramme of their obligations for 36 months, we can try to enable them to behave responsibly in an economic environment and responsibility for resolving indifference and insolvency. Until that time in Parliament, the Government also intends to refer to the Financial Business Act. The Financial Business Act will try to resolve the efficiency of the financial consolidation of all companies. And this means the possibility of agreeing key creditors with the debtor on the consolidation of their financial obligations independently of the State, independently of the commercial banks. And to try to get that process out of bankruptcy and speed it up because it's far faster when it's not in the judicial system. All that fails means that there are no elements for a competitive fight with others on the Croatian market or on the external market and unfortunately there will be no exits for them. It's a program that will last all year. This is essentially our introduction to allow at least those who owe us financial restructuring before the law. We have to say that we don't expect significant major effects. Because if you're looking at the data that somewhere, our claims to these existing debtors are about 25 billion, that the original law has won the whole of it, let's take a billion and a half, and some possibility of refinancing for 12 months somewhere around 2 billion and 100 are our contracts that have been supported by the Croatian economy to solve this disease of liquidity. Then our expectations are not great even after this supplement, which means that still a big problem for all of us will be how to collect claims and in fact a large part of the work that we have to do will obviously remain for that other package, a package of the Financial Business Act where real financial restructuring of companies will be needed in order to do business on a regular basis. Maybe we're two more words because the total debts and debts that I've now mentioned are about 25 billion, 800 million that relate to now living legal entities mean that they're remunerated and there are real claims. We still have about 25 billion in all the previous periods that are our claims which are essentially our claims are with very small collection options because they are both out of date or in some earlier claims decisions that have been written off, but obviously that we have not fully matched our claims with this reality in the IRS and that there are indeed a series of additional decisions ahead that everything that is not realistic, everything that is simply left in the books, and there are no legal entities to bring it into line with the actual facts. In addition to this interesting information, the Ministry of Finance will propose to you, during the course of the complete processing, ways of resolving and harmonising our tax claims with the real situation in the economy. They will also provide you with all the necessary information so that you can know who the debtors are and who the complete claims apply to. Here's so much for an introductory explanation. If necessary, we will report for further discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4545	Thank you, Mr. Linic. We're moving on to committees. On behalf of the Committee on Budget and Finance, Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4546	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected finance ministers and assistant ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Therefore, the parent board, the Committee on Finance and the Budget of the Croatian Parliament discussed at its 4th session held on 21 February 2012 on the basis of its competence as set out in Article 65. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on the law in question, the opening statement that we had on the board, you heard that he presented the Minister of Finance to you now. I will present to you that the Committee has received an amendment from the Association of Cities as a proposal on the final draft law amending the Law on a special rate of payment of tax debt caused by the economic crisis which proposes that tax debt reprogramme should cover all public duties, and reprogramme entities or bodies that would apply would be the bodies of the units of local and regional self-government. The Committee on Budgets and Finance has not reached any conclusion on the subject of the amendments. The Committee further discussed the following opinions, comments and proposals. The fundamental idea of this law is good, but it is stated that the provision allowing the write-off of interest-based debts should be reconsidered. Namely, a taxpayer who did not properly settle his obligations is allowed to be in a privileged position to write off his interest-based debt in relation to the regulated taxpayer who paid all his obligations on time. For this reason, however, it should be prescribed by this law not to write down the total amount of interest but to account for at least part of the interest generated from the base of the tax debt, in an amount which cannot be less than the interest charged when reprogramming the collection of the tax debt. Furthermore, the following opinions were that the problem of in liquidity is impossible to solve without economic growth. For this reason, it is proposed to adopt this law, which, apart from other things, regulate and write off interest-based debts in order to make assumptions for the rapid growth of economic activities, and thus to increase employment. Furthermore, the opinion and proposals are that the deadline for submitting a written and reasoned application for reprogramming the tax debt payment is required from 90 to 30 days as sufficient time to implement the proposed measure. It is also proposed to reduce the deadlines in which entrepreneurs can submit a written request for the write-off of the tax debt from 90 to 60 days in order to speed up the process of implementing the proposed measures. After a longer discussion, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament supported the law in question and decided by a majority vote, with 7 votes and 2 votes abstentions, to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the special extent of payment of the tax debt caused by the economic crisis, together with the following amendments. 1st Amendment, in Article 7 of the final draft of the law in front of paragraph 4, it is proposed to add an amendment to paragraph 1 of the applicable law in such a way that words are replaced within 90 days by words within 30 days. In paragraph 4, the final proposal for a word law for the period from 1 October 2008 is replaced by the words in 2010. Explanation. It is necessary to shorten the deadline for the submission of a written and reasoned request for the reprogramming of the tax debt from 90 to 30 days as sufficient to assess the need for the application of the proposed measure, particularly in the light of the near adoption of the Financial Business Act. In addition, it is also necessary to shorten the period during which the entrepreneur paid the dividend, the share in profits or advances of profits, while at the same time having a tax debt as a reason for the rejection of the claim on 2010. Amendment 2. In Article 8 of the final proposal for a law in the new Article 10a, paragraph 1 shall be replaced by the words within 60 days. Explanation. A reduction in the time limit for applying for the write-off of a tax debt based on interest from 90 days to 60 days shall be proposed for the reason why an excessive period for the application in question is proposed. In fact, 60 days is quite enough time for entrepreneurs to prepare the necessary documentation and submit a written and reasoned request for the write-off of interest-based tax debt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4547	Thank you. Are there still representatives of the board who want to be obvious? If not, we'll move on to a club debate. On behalf of the IDS MP, Mr Damir Cain. I can't see him. He's losing his right to argue. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourist-Stranke Work MP Branko Vukšić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4548	Honorable Vice President, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Among other things, this bill discusses a terrible wasteland, primarily of the Croatian state, in which thousands of examples of the claim are tolerated by disorder and non-discipline. This bill of law could be called work, give it to the wars, and up to 36 months, unambiguous. If they did business like that, the cards would have failed a long time ago. Those who committed in the Western world are rewarded with one of the most serious crimes not paying taxes whether or not they paid taxes, whether or not they could pay taxes. They are rewarded whether the debt has arisen because of objective circumstances or because of their intention to damage the state, and it creates an unlawful benefit to itself. It does not matter whether an entrepreneur has avoided paying taxes because he has restored or not certain jobs or services to his next and second relatives. How do those who regularly pay taxes now feel by cutting themselves and workers on wages or by denying their profits? They had their first thought of paying taxes, and only then to take their own, and only then to buy a better car, and only then to restore furniture in the office. It's the riots, the indecisiveness, the untimely state reactions and too many carrots, and too little beatings have created a 46 billion debt. Most of this huge 46 billion debt did not naturally arise as a consequence of the crisis. It was also a deal don't pay, we'll close our eyes to both eyes, which was confirmed by the Director of the Tax Administration at yesterday's session of the board in the words to HDZ representatives. You're rebelling against interest write-offs, and you were just doing it at the government's closed sessions. Take the secret off the debtor's register once, publish the debtor's register, and let's see who it is, how much money and how much time it owes. We will find out this way when and how debts to the state have been created, whether these debts are the result of speculation and agreement with the taxpayers. We'll find out if the crime was committed and who's responsible for this crime. They're not in your debt, they owe it to all of us, they owe it to citizens who, by the way, don't know which way they're taking care of the budget. The register of taxpayers is far more important than the Defence Register. The defenders have the right to know who's stealing their money. The tax debt of 46 billion kuna has threatened the financial sovereignty of the Croatian state. Imagine half of America's tax debt budget is a secret. Imagine going to a sovereign orderly state, an unforgiving state so easily deny its money or more precisely its sovereignty. You'd be ruined. But before that would happen, the authorities that allow the collapse would be removed within 24 hours and the US president would be removed immediately due to the indifferent relationship to half of the budget. Why? Because it would allow and it is a direct betrayal of sovereignty. In this 46 billion serious crime, tax administrations were involved if nothing else, at least by inaction. Island which is peaceful, but with a referendum, and a referendum in Croatia is bigger than the bauk of communism in America after World War II, letting blood banks in foreign ownership fail. He prosecuted his prime minister not for stealing but for inaction. Are we ever going to experience this bright moment, or are we ever going to have the most responsible for another legalized robbery that we didn't even know after these recorded 46 billion tax debt plus 9 billion long concessions? Well, now you know. We all know. But will the Croatian state process those who knew and did nothing. We, Croatian Labourists, are asking for the process, that all those in the tax administrations scrutinize on both eyes, and after the investigation if they are guilty of justice. My colleagues and colleagues, it is the real enemies of Croatia who buy themselves expensive cars, villas at sea, speedboats and air-scrapers, without paying taxes, endangering the economic and financial sovereignty of the state. You are usually with your hand on your heart close to your wallet and are mostly the greatest rhetorical patriots. They're bigger enemies than the ones with the gun. You see them, and they present themselves with their hands on their hearts to friends, big businessmen, business lumens to empty the pockets of Croatian citizens. There's finally a lot of tax evasion to say! Non-taxation is a crime, for which many citizens of European countries hide in the homes of South American states, and with us, the destroyers of financial sovereignty are pillars of society that teach patriotism from newspaper headlines and prestigious television shows. Or as their helpers, without blinking an eye in the position of the righteous, they write out the commissions for the sake of the greatest needy. So the state is still towards the richest good mother, and according to the poor, evil stepmother. When this will allow citizens who are in a thousand times more desperate than Croatian entrepreneurs, honor to those honest, payable, responsible, patriotic, solidarity and humanely postpone payment until their recovery. Well, the merciless, often unjust when criminally committed because of a few thousand kuna debt, the family is thrown out of their homes into the street because they say it's the order. They say this isn't socialism anymore. Socialism seems to have left only business tax defaults which, by this law of the state, stimulates non-payment or at least a postponement of taxes. For them, the Croatian political model is the best model in the world, but fortunately no country will copy it. Citizens wonder when Croatia will become a normal, regulated state in which companies and their owners will not be able to calculate in advance that non-payment of taxes is ultimately worth it. Or that taxes only pay if after the last one on the flower ripped off the petals and I won't do that, I won't fall out anyway. And finally, you need to draw the line and say a lot. There will be order from now on. From now on, there will be no privileged citizens to whom laws and citizens who do not have the right not only to advertise but also have no right to a decent life, citizens whose state is unprincipled by its debt of several hundred kunas of prey. This power is whether it is right for everyone to start acting differently. The Croatian Labour Law proposal has not convinced that. I didn't hear very well from Minister Linic because he said the last sentence very quietly. Did he say in his last sentence that we can still get an insight into the debtor's register? I hope that explains it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4549	Thank you, counsel. I'm sorry, I'm just trying to distract you. So, we are discussing the final draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on a special rate of tax debt collection caused by the economic crisis. We've had corrections, Mrs. Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4550	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I'm correcting the incorrect allegations that the MP made just before quoting the director of the IRS that the government was writing off some of the debts in closed sessions, or doing something secret. Not only am I correcting this, but I am asking Mr. Minister to make a statement today and certainly respond in accordance with the Government Act to Mrs. Director, who made irresponsible statements yesterday, very dangerous, and then withdrew them to the press afterwards. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4551	Thank you. Correction counsel Mr. Shucker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4552	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I am correcting a number of incorrect allegations from my colleague Vuksic where he accused someone of inaction, above all the IRS employees, so this House has colleagues sitting here in 2002 and now there is the current minister and now the Vice-President of the Government and the IRS. Look at the debate since then, the chairman of the Committee on Finance, from fellow Cain. It's about a law that regulates 23 and a half billion kuna. So most of these 46 billion kuna tax administrations have sent blockades to every possible and impossible account these companies have. And when they dismember and I think that when this is discussed, this agenda item is very painful and sensitive to Croatian citizens, then I think the IRS and the Ministry of Finance should give tables to see the debt structure. It's not an individual debt, but a nominal one, so to see how he's moved by age and to see that the IRS annually charges on average is about 97% of those reported and determined revenues. I'm saying, 46 billion sounds terrible, but when you look at them a little analytically, In 2002, when the Tax Administration took over from the Ministry of Peace and Health, the payment of contributions was 8 and a half billion kuna. [[Invader Batinić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4553	Thank you. For his word, he appeared in front of the proposer, Mr. Linic. Here you go. Just before the minister let me read one notice. So the 2nd session of the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy will be held today at 13:30 in the hall of Ivan Mažuranić, number 84. Let's hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4554	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, maybe a few more data and we'll give you the exact information. We'll only make a deal in which way. Why? I'm talking about those 25 billion that still have a real possibility of charging them, the 25 billionth point 800 million kuna. So what structure is that? At the value of the legal person, almost 40% of the amount is due, 40% of the natural person, but independent activity, means economic turn, 43%, and natural persons are citizens 18% of that debt. So that's the structure of the percentage by looking at those amounts of 25.8 billion. What's more important is that we have a legal person named 131.5 grand. So 131 thousand legal persons in debt or 7% of total debtors. Physical persons of self-employed activity, meaning craftsmen, 261 thousand. And 18% of citizens' individuals represent a million 385 thousand. So it's a list of a million-point 778 thousand debtors. These are about the debtors according to the tax obligations we have registered, which refers to 25.8 billion. And obviously we're going to have to set some limits to recognize maybe what we really want, and that's a huge list. What else shows is that we live in a state where there is no obligation to pay. It is not surprising, then, that we have a total amount of 42 billion unpaid liabilities registered and that in fact many investors have a problem facing investments in the Republic of Croatia. And that is why one of our problems today is the conditions when we talk about entering the EU the efficiency of the judiciary. And apparently, I agree, there remains a problem of how to reverse the responsibility of the Tax Administration, Customs and other entities of the state as executive authorities and begin to seek discipline when the rule in Croatia is imposed that it should be irresponsible to the obligation. And the Government of the Republic of Croatia is trying to say in this year we are turning, indeed turning the policy of the bodies responsible for collecting tax revenues. We turn politics, we sharpen that policy. But we also want to make it very clear in legal persons that many workers are employed and it is not a problem for the owners the problem is that unfortunately the systems of bankruptcy scare everyone in Croatia, and the public sector, scares and political parties. Why? Because again, the problem of the efficiency of the judicial authorities that are addressing bankruptcy claims does not show efficiency, so let's say that the reconstructions last for 12 to 15 years. Which is unsustainable because it's unfair competition on the market. Because that's what I'd say insecurity legal to employees. We must therefore understand that a turn in a country where payment liability, liability to obligations does not, unfortunately, exist the entire system that we have set is not effective to protect that change is indeed a very, very difficult job for executive power. But we're trying to tell you this year that politics is changing. Unfortunately, we don't have a problem, and I trust any government so far, the person who doesn't pay, the owner or anyone else, is not because unfortunately his responsibility goes to the employees who are at risk. And it's always been a problem of how to be rigorous in charge when we know that basically because of the lack of responsibility of management, the liability of the owner is compromised activity, they're at risk of employees. These are our problems. We know now that we are discussing the proposal of these incentive measures for those irresponsible, not thinking about their owners and directors, but about the employees tomorrow when we raise the level and tighten the level of charge you will see the results. It's enough to say that already under these 25 billion-dollar measures now, nearly 10 billion are in blockades. Do you know what it means to live in blocks? A series of illegal payouts, payments are made through third accounts, it's hidden, creditors are completely different from each other's compensations, beatings are avoided in a regular manner of financial transactions, so when we open up tomorrow's bankruptcy you'll see further problems. Why? Any bankruptcy manager and judge can determine tomorrow that they have had the convenience of asking for payment of what they already paid once through hidden accounts. So we have a completely huge problem because of these blockades. So 10 billion of our claims are currently in blockades. Somewhere 2 billion in overruns, 2 billion in some kind of delay, and in a regular charge it's somewhere around 13 billion kuna. So, half of our claims. Everything else is already a series of measures raised, but the obvious question is what now? Because the blockade doesn't end in bankruptcy, it doesn't end in bankruptcy because it's processes that don't give efficiency, it doesn't give safety to employees or workers. Therefore, let us try to understand that this is not the tax administration's or government's relationship to owners and directors, but to the entire system where it is essentially the biggest problem of vulnerable jobs, threatened processes. The government therefore proposes this measure by saying it is one of the last attempts, we are going to go to financial restructuring to relieve the judiciary and try to solve that part through the relationship of debtors and creditors, and all in job protection, not in protection I would say people who own or manage the system but jobs. And that it will be long-term processes and that, unfortunately, it will also result in the loss of many jobs. Because if there are too many dubiosis, if the debtors fail to agree with the creditors, is once again going to go to the exemption of both assets and capital and probably further write-offs, therefore our claims as support measures in this financial restructuring of ours. But try to understand this proposal is well derived from the reason why we are as burdened as you are with the fate of employees and jobs and too many unemployed at the Employment Office. Remember those 25 billion over 13 billion are unpaid contributions means liabilities per employee, they didn't get either pension payment, no health care, and no other pension column that is their own savings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4555	Thank you. We're moving on to the debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, representative Mrs Nadica Jelas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4556	Honorable Vice President, Ministers, Directors, Honorable MPs and MPs. So my debate will be completely different from the debate of my predecessor, Vuksic, because I am discussing on behalf of the SDP club, so the Prime Minister's party, who has to deal with the problems of this country and its citizens right now, respecting the situation that is at hand. Therefore, the Law on a special rate of tax debt collection that we brought in the spring of last year, so a little less than a year ago, was conceived as a one-time intervention measure that was meant to help entrepreneurs by reprogramming their tax debt to simply reach their breath and deal with the consequences of economic rice. Unfortunately, the economic crisis is not over. It's going on. On some elements, it could be said that it is also deepening, and certainly most dramaticly manifested in this one unconstitutional growth of the number of unemployed, which is a sort of time-framed social bomb and in the expansion of an indivisibility that literally blocks economic activity. At the end of 2011, the outstanding debts of our entrepreneurs reached an enormous 42 billion kuna, with only last quarter last year the number of blocked business entities increased by over five thousand and their outstanding debts increased by 1.7 billion kuna. Although at a meeting of the Committee on Finance where the opposition's legislative proposal was discussed, it tried to reduce the weight of these figures by arguing that the data of the FINA and the phantom companies that were long gone, so companies that had no employee, that in the mass of unsettled liabilities recorded, contained and debts over ten years old, the fact remains that these phantom companies of the 1990s have, on this occasion, unsettled their obligations, infected the healthy economic tissue or started that one spiral of indifference that reached today's scale, or created a culture of non-payment which is a kind of Croatian phenomenon. And the fact remains that at the end of 2008, the year of the start of the crisis was the mass of the unmoved debts of the Croatian economy of 19 billion kuna, and that in the last three years the crisis year was increased to the already mentioned 42 billion, so by 23 billion kuna or by 125% more than double. The number of business entities with a blocked account was simultaneously increased by 18.6 thousand legal persons or 36%, and the number of employees in companies by 15.8 thousand or 30%, therefore, is not about phantom companies, but about companies with employees. Obviously, in the last three years we have faced a galloping indifference, and that is why the validity of this special tax debt collection measure must be extended, clearly, by the proposed improvements. This measure also proved to be good in the 2000-2003 period when the 3rd January government also faced the problem of indifference and, as far as we know, successfully solved it. With this problem now far greater, and the maneuvering space for its resolution far more consensual. One word today, we're in a much harder situation. Despite this fact, we believe that in combination with all the other measures that we have proposed and which this government is planning to take and now and this measure will give positive effects at least until the moment until the Financial Business Act is adopted which should begin to address the problem of non-payment in one systematic way. Although the Law itself on a special rate of payment of tax debt can indeed be agreed with, it is a sort of bargaining for non-payers, therefore, a kind of discrimination against those fine salaries, it is precisely because of the gravity of the situation that is necessary. So, he is necessary right now, he is an expression of the good faith of the state to give up some of its income in favour of the economy of that part of the economy that still works, which still has a perspective, so it is one additional impulse of reviving that economy because we all agree that economic growth is the most efficient way to address the problem of indifference. The goal is to keep every company out of bankruptcy, to keep every job. Jobs must not be lost. So, in the end, just a few more words about the most important changes in this legislative proposal compared to the existing law. Therefore, the deadline for payment of the tax debt is extended with a reprogramme from the existing 30 to 36 months. Furthermore, the period during which the debt occurred is also extended. So far, it has been a deadline of 31 December 2010, and now it is proposed that the subject of the reprogramme can be all tax debts incurred by 31 January 2012, and as we heard from the minister, it is about the debts of around 25 billion kuna that are realistically charged. Furthermore, it allows the write-off of the debt from the title of interest, and that is actually what we would say would be the most problematic part of this legislative proposal in response to the opposition. This right may be exercised by an entrepreneur who, within 30 days of the date of compliance of his tax debt with the Tax Administration, shall pay the total principal of the debt due by 31 January 2012. The fact is that when the tax debt is charged in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations, interest is first charged and only then the principal and therefore a large number of taxpayers simply cannot come into the situation to start paying the tax debt itself. Keep going. The deadline for applying for a tax debt reprogramme to the Tax Administration shall be reduced from 90 to 60 days. As regards the contribution to pension therefore, the debt on the basis of that contribution shall be exempt from this measure and shall be defined in accordance with the rules in the pension scheme. The interest on the reprogrammed capital remains 8.5%, and all other conditions remain unchanged compared to the existing law. Finally, I would like to say that I believe that this proposal will still support the opposition, as the opposition supported this law last year, the more the current proposal is improved, the more acceptable it is for entrepreneurs, given the severity of the recent economic situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4557	Thank you very much to the honourable representative. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party Representatives-Liberal Democrats Club, Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4558	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, Madam Director, colleagues and colleagues. So it's already been brought out a lot by both the minister and the SDP club colleague so that on behalf of the HNS Club, I will focus on what left one question for some to allow, those who are neat in paying them are sort of being punished for what they paid for. So I have to say that as well as as HNS, we always support the development of the economy, employment, implementation of projects. Companies that are in trouble are not just companies that bought cars and didn't pay, owners bought cars and didn't pay salaries. This law basically recognizes a moment as this government and this coalition recognizes the moment in which we find it and the moment we find it. To give a chance to those who hire and have problems, fighting for each job is something that is the priority of this coalition government, the priority of the CNS. What that chance means is that, when the capital investments we expect to start, which are announced, these competitions that are public firms have to come forward with an orderly pattern of subjugated tax obligations or obligations that do not burden at the time that this law allows. Not to mention one day of blockage on that bon 1 or bon 2 basically limiting the possibility that the company can report to any competition within 6 months. This law allows entrepreneurship to be competitive, but also to be liquid that it can pay salaries and contributions that are mandatory. And it's that chance and opportunity that we have to give to the economy fighting for every job not declarative but literal. It's this law. It's this law that opens up investment space, that part of healthy companies that have problems but can, can go forward, can report to a tender, can get jobs, can produce for new capital investments and can pay wages. And it's a fight for every job. Also, this law is a message to all those who do not respect and do not pay the obligations of current taxes, which are those that will be reprogrammed no more conversations but to solve and clean up what is not healthy and it is a clear message that there will be no more opportunities to play in the way that has been done so far. But this chance and the chance in which all those who have a chance and opportunity will once again be recorded, and who have the space and need to enter into co-ownership through the new law because they are potential but at this point have no financial power is the same thing that this law adopts. We need to give it a chance, we need to give it a chance, and we're gonna give it to this law. The HNS club supports this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4559	Thank you. Next on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, Ms. Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4560	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Let me, at the beginning of my presentation, return to what we are talking about, and we are talking about a law that reopens the possibility of a redistribution of the tax debt caused by the crisis, this time for a period of 36 months and this proposal and the renewal of this measure is explained by the effects of the crisis. So given the economic circumstances and the time the crisis is going on, and the deterioration of conditions in the environment, we feel that such a proposal is appropriate. Let another opportunity be opened for entrepreneurs who face difficulties in coping with the crisis. A similar measure was in place last year and, as we heard from the minister under that programme, was reprogrammed somewhere about a billion and a half kuna tax debt and I hold in those 2133 companies for which a reprogramme was made, 35,000 people were employed and I hold that measure effective because it supported and helped 35000 jobs. If this measure now proposed by the reprogramme helps again, I think it will be a good measure, and therefore, in this first part, in the part of the reprogramme, where payment of the tax debt is facilitated by due repayments with appropriate interest, we support such a proposal. What we still hold in this Law is that it is not good, however, is the opening of the possibility of a hundred percent write-off of tight interest. And that's basically for two reasons. One relationship is also, in some ways, a worse position in which regulated taxpayers are placed, which was partly spoken by the minister himself, confirming that he is aware of it and saying that the crisis is still difficult and that the ministry has decided on this measure. However, this was also the case on the committee. What I'm saying is that you have to be aware that the write-off of the tight interest is a interest-free loan, that this is an opportunity that the neat taxpayers have unwarrantedly missed. And that's what I've just said is a general economic argument of equality and competition and could in that sense be kept in the economic debate if it wasn't for state aid rules. We agreed, too, and you told the ministers this was support. However, when and since support is involved, then we have a legislative framework that regulates the way in which support is given and granted and it is not difficult for you as long as this debate continues to go to AZTN's website and read that direct support that favours an entrepreneur on the market are, for example, subsidies, tax or interest exemptions, loans under more favourable conditions than marketable ones. Next, the agency says it approves state support for certain pre-defined objectives and at certain amounts. And finally, he says, the support granted without prior approval of the agency is considered illegal. In such circumstances, the Agency shall order the reimbursement of the support increased by the amount of the tightened interest. And that's the measure of our debate and that's the measure of our warning. For although this support is prescribed by law, it must have the approval of the Competition Protection Agency. With my best wishes, I didn't find it in the interpretation of the law, and that's why I'm saying it now to correct it in a way that is consistent with the legal and legal framework that we have. And if it is done, it will be removed and that thorough observation that in non-compliance it is complete write-off and incorrect and not fair in relation to regular taxpayers. I therefore believe that the Croatian Democratic Community club also holds that in this part of this provision it is necessary to fix and comply with the agency. So that's how our big debate started, which takes part of the space here too, so I'm going to address the issue of tax debts. Well, I think it's quite clear that tax debt exists, that there are tax debts, there are numbers that are being accumulated, that are being collected from the beginning of the creation of the Croatian state because the write-off of debt is not possible. Because no one has the right to write off a tax debt other than the Croatian Parliament. Tax Administration, the Ministry of Finance under all the governments that managed it has always and has only one task – to charge as much as possible, the better. And in this, the charge is used by all available means, and according to this, the minister also spoke about how much and which instruments the current tax debt balance of active taxpayers is covered by. And that's what I keep important. The measures taken to collect that debt. And so, in the first nine months of last year, it was precisely these coerced measures, blockades, kidnappings, executions that forced more than a billion and 900 million kunas into nine months. And the total charge in the last year was 97.85% of all the debts, all the possible taxes that came to payment in the last year determined what the applications were, which was charged to 97.85% of the controls. Average over the past 10 years in the period from 2000 to 2000 Until 2010. It's 96.7%. Passed by a non-simple 97.85. This shows that tax collection efforts should be invested in every way. And therefore, last year, the Ministry of Finance filed more than 3,000 bankruptcys under a reduced procedure, submitted to the State Attorney's Office a request for the implementation of regular bankruptcy procedures of more than 800, together with the Ministry of Justice, a list of taxpayers who, in the past three years, had failed to submit financial reports with a request for expropriation under official duty that courts had to do anyway and contribute to financial stability and regulation. So, among other things, these repressive procedures provided a charge of 97.85% and the Ministry of Finance must continue to continue along the way, and the task is to provide a better result than this. So in conclusion, I also advocate from this pay phone that we are always discussing real economic matters in a context that can bring us a solution, and it can only bring us a solution if we see this problem as it is. The solution cannot and cannot bring any political arguments, no false and fictional claims, because that's all we're wasting time with. So I use this payphone one more time to make it clear to you that neither public or secret tax write-offs were due because no one has the right to do so. And for this reason, tax claims are recorded from the creation of the Croatian state in the tax administration records, and then, from time to time, these numbers are used, commented, but what is important is to look at and know what is real, which is from which period and what measures are taken to collect these amounts. It is the tax administrations' task to take all available measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4561	Thank you. Next on behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, Mr Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4562	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In view of the difficult and complex situation in the economy, the HDSB Club will support this measure, given that it is one of the measures that can affect, similar to this measure which has been in force so far to reprogramme tax debts for 30 months, this is only an extension of the debt to 36 months and we will support this measure in terms of the liquidity and sustainability of entrepreneurs. And not only do I read a reason that is so beautifully addressed here in this law I will say a few data relating to the tax debt itself and which speak of that a whole state system particularly the Tax Administration did not do its job in quality and did not respond in time, which contributed to a number of long-term bankruptcys, and yesterday we talked about them, bankruptcys in the Croatian model and the Croatian system where companies were completely missing and lost jobs, but not only the company's name but the missing and total property of these companies. The latest indicators show, and precisely from these indicators, we may suggest an amendment to this law, because from these indicators that I am about to say now, it will be visible that total tax debts are not only caused by an economic crisis which, according to some, lasts for some two years, and in Croatia, it lasts from conversion and privatisation. So to date, the state has failed to charge $51.3 billion in taxes and contributions, and in the last 3 years 17 billion kuna, worth 24.7 billion in interest. So these stories and numbers of 97% charge obviously don't drink water since in the last 3 years the state hasn't been able to charge 17 billion kuna. Last year, 8.72 billion kuna, so total taxes and contributions, i.e. 11.75 billion kuna, with corresponding interest. On behalf of VAT on value added tax, which last year was 23%, although there were promises, as in 2011, that VAT will not be raised but even reduced, the state did not receive 3.5 billion kuna and, behold, this is exactly the amount the country intends to make available in the 2012 budget, and it intends to charge citizens from raising VAT from 23% to 25%. In three years, therefore, in the last three years VAT has not been charged totalling 8.2 billion kuna. At that same time, the economy, therefore, Croatian entrepreneurship which should not be defended at all times, should be helped, but should also be pointed out what those who are considered as Croatian economics and entrepreneurs are, not all of them but those who are in this amount, so only last year spent a total of 6 billion kuna on the representation and purchase of new personal cars. And they normally had the right to deduct the pre-tax and cut the tax base for paying the profit tax. Normally our efficient and three-time state and the Tax Administration failed to compensate for this with such Croatian businessmen. That someone doesn't understand, honor to those who work fairly, hire, care for their workers, pay them taxes and contributions, but most or minorities, which is why I'm going to ask for all the data at the end of this presentation, he obviously doesn't consider even a worker who is protected by the Croatian Constitution, and he also doesn't consider this country to be his country because he doesn't pay taxes or contribute not only in these last two years of a difficult economic crisis but also in the last 12 or in the last 20 years. Now, we have a total of 51 that's an indicator of 51 billion kunas of unpaid tax debts. And we can all imagine what a country would do even if it were to write off interest payments to collect these billions of kunas as much as it would be hospitals, schools, how many safe spring crossings, how many bypasses that aren't bypasses of death because they don't have either overpasses or light signals don't even have lighting like the Djakova bypass, right, Mr. Shakespeare? And we can imagine that the state has charged that debt probably wouldn't have to enter into new credit debts, not having to pay billions of interest on the loans it has raised to maintain or reduce the deficit. In total, 12 billion kuna were lost on VAT and 20 billion kuna on contributions. What the HDSSB Club is looking for and we advocate that the Croatian public for almost two years is not only a political party, someone resists, someone is in favour, we are in favour of publishing the register of Croatian defenders and we fully support it, but we are looking also clearly and loudly if that topic is certainly topic number 1 in Croatia which failed to collect its debts but for Croatia which is today overindebted state. We also owe it to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, the Croats and the Croats and all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to show the list of those who are in charge of the Republic of Croatia. And it can't be a secret information. It's not that grandmother from the market, it's a lot of "reputable citizens" of this Republic who can't be respected because they owe these citizens and this country. Which this year in this budget will have to pay for what they have not paid for not two years but for a full 20 years. And I'd say from conversion and privatisation, there's a way. So, the HDSSB Club asks the Ministry of Finance to change the law. The law which at this time protects those who do not pay the Republic of Croatia's obligations is considered completely illegal and we are looking for the release of that information. The HDSSB Club is interested but also interested in this overall Croatian public impact of this current law and the effects of the Tax Administration or possibly possible, I say possibly possible decisions, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, regardless of who led it and certain decisions on secret, and I would not say that there are secret sessions, but that there can be closed meetings of the Government where tax debts were allegedly written off, etc. Since one such statement comes from the Director of the Tax Administration, who yesterday claims to have this information, the HDSSB club is asking for this information to be made public. Because it is not owned by the Tax Administration, it is not owned by the Minister of Finance, it is not owned by any individual in the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it is information that interests all Croatian citizens. All those who gave voice to today's government, as well as to all those who voted for other political options. This means both the position and the opposition and all Croatian citizens should be interested. So we're looking for a full report of the current effects of the Tax Debt Reprogramme Act, but we're also looking for all the reports that were denied yesterday first and then confirmed that there was a write-off of the tax debt at the government's sessions. I said this law is closely tied to amendments to the bankruptcy law. Since I do not believe that this law can contribute to a longer duration of bankruptcy than it is under the current law, the Croatian Government, or the Ministry of Finance, must urgently move to amend the Banks Act so that these bankruptcys may be, and this is one of the causes of bankruptcy in Croatia, one of the reasons where no one can be charged specifically to workers, especially the state, units of local self-government, so urgently with this law and with that law yesterday should proceed to the full amendment of the bankruptcy law. In order not to end these bankruptcys as they ended up in honor and exception of several companies in the Republic of Croatia with full sale of assets, the disappearance of jobs, and the disappearance of even the land on which these companies used to work. The tax administration that's been doing all this time, and I am responsible for that, and we take it responsibly in HDSSB honor to the people who work at the IRS, honor to those who have been consciously doing their job, but here I mean first of all to the top of the IRS, who was in line with those who made those decisions. In most cases, the tax administration in this period was short of the famous Croatian octopus of corruption, corruption and crime, because it is visible from this data that the Tax Administration was doing its job, then this tax debt would not reach these 51 billion kunas This country would not have to be further in debt as it will be in debt this year for nearly 22 billion kuna. If that IRS had done its job to this state, the difficult situation wouldn't have happened anyway. The tax administration is this Mr. Minister and Director of the Tax Administration, Mrs. Cavlović-Smiljanec, who must come out with all this data, who must not only charge and punish that grandmother in the market or as she says here in Zagreb, the maid in the market that sells eggs, cheese and cream, or possibly bring one slaughtered chicken, but must charge the debt and sacred cows of the Croatian economy. It is your job, and it is your job to publish a list of all those who owe it to the Republic of Croatia, a list of all that the law has passed until these changes has brought to the Republic of Croatia...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4563	Agent time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4564	I'm done. As well as any possible decision by the Croatian Government, regardless... Call secret sessions as you say and I would say closed sessions because this is what the Croatian public and Croatian citizens, our dear Croats and Croats, workers, peasants and all those who live on their work and pay their dues neatly. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4565	Thank you. Here on behalf of the promoter, Minister Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4566	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A brief review of the previous debates. I would like to make it very clear again that the problem of the Republic of Croatia is, on the one hand, irresponsibility in the payment system, irresponsibility to obligations and non-compliance. Therefore, we did not create a business market in Croatia where the owners of companies and business people who run companies when they realize that they are in problems due to insolvency or indifference initiating procedures in which they will try to find the possibility of recapitalisation, the possibility of agreeing with creditors or ultimately opening up bankruptcy. We have been building Croatia for 22 years, after 22 years we view bankruptcy as the liquidation of companies and not the restoration I would say the relationship between debtors and creditors because in financial terms bankruptcy is only a judicial epilogue in relation to debtors and creditors. No, unfortunately, we have not learned the thesis of financial relations in Croatia after 22 years. Conversely, debtors and creditors are so irresponsible that they make it difficult to do things, they don't accept each other's conversations at all, and when they simply blow up the obligations of that moment, we close jobs. This is after 22 years our approach to the market economy and that is one problem. And the other problem, unfortunately, is that our judiciary is not so effective that it solves this problem, and there are the causes of many problems. And, of course, we now have a problem with the executive authority that, if it seeks responsibility for tax obligations, has to make the most difficult moves, which is to close jobs. Why, because creditors and debtors don't work, don't talk, don't look for solutions, and in taxes if you go into the process of billing, blocking, opening up bankruptcy, that's it. And here, let's try to see that the problem of the system's functioning, building up systems and how to find a solution. This is why the Croatian government says that we are going with a law where we will try to speed up the procedures of settlements between debtors and creditors, settlements. See, that's what the Croatian government says we'll try the law. This law will again define one-off support because these support will go into ransom... The assets, in share capital, will be re-deposited. [[You don't understand.]] So we're going to have a principle law that speaks again about support, to try to completely disrupt market relations how to put it into acceptable relationships. So we're trying to speed up settlement processes, that's the only purpose when we're talking about the Financial Business Act, and I'm not saying that we're going to try to solve the personal bankruptcy of citizens who are debtors. It is our desire to try to solve these two moments with this law and try to find the best solutions in this parliamentary debate. But try to understand, after 22 years, we in the liability system are not functioning. And that's the result of this country's claims and this kind of problem with the collection of the state's claim. It is your right to simply suspect the work of the Ministry of Finance or the Tax Administration, but try simply to understand, at the time when you have a system that does not work, when you have a authority that tries to maintain jobs that path is made by such and such decisions, but certainly are not in the function of protecting irresponsible taxpayers because some legal persons who are the biggest debtors are not individuals, but are a network of property management rights, but also employees' rights. It's up to you to assess whatever you want. What I want to say very clearly is, we're going to deliver the lists, we're going to try to streamline the lists because a million and 700 thousand names about the company, you don't need individuals, so we're going to try to find some reasonable border, they're going to be available to everyone. So let's try to understand, it's not some special list because you simply know most of the companies and you know who they are because they address you every day. To try to resolve the misunderstanding regarding my colleague's statement. And there might be an attempt to say about the HDZ Club debate over interest. Yes, our additional support is heading towards interest. I agree, he needs a decision from AZTN. We expect it positive, because Croatia is the one where we have enormous claims where we have a very high interest strain on unpaid liabilities. And the question remains whether we want to stimulate the bill as soon as possible to write off that interest. We suggest such a solution. And this is a principle of support to the economy, to all sectors. Unfortunately, support for those who have not fulfilled their obligations. It's the only flaw in this support we're proposing. And the debate that was being held about what the former government was doing is unnecessary, are closed sessions, open sessions. They had a selective approach not to write off but to convert commitments to the state into capital or rather those were decisions to restructure certain companies. We can list them as many as you want, but they're as selective, so individual, and what's on interest is generally legal, and at that point depending on who answers, who's willing, we'll have decisions. They're both supportive. Our financial business law that will be proposed will again be principled, it will allow financial restructuring to go towards anyone who is obliged to banks, creditors and the state. It will again be at the principle level, and it will be the basis for action. So, talk about writing off Dalmatino's claim, so you all know that. Yeah, they were, that's it. So that's those decisions, but they're familiar to everyone. It's not secret decisions, it's maybe closed sessions, I don't know where it's been made. We don't need to talk about Badell, model C again turning I'd say claims into basic capital. I don't know. There's a principal from Virovitica Tobacco Slatina. So in that part you're restructuring the company, but selectively you chose here and there, you've simply turned the claims into other forms. That's what we're going to do in principle again, I'd say level with the Financial Business Act try. Both are support, both. These selective government decisions, and what we're going to try to get back to the principle of consent to the law, and then we're going to do what it is. Therefore, it is very clear that no one wants to talk about something that the government has done illegally, unauthorized. Those were decisions. Many of these decisions are well known to everyone. And by the way, I'd say welcome except maybe paying off severance payments in bankruptcy which we know is not exactly in line with the regulations because it causes further problems for all those who can't get it. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4567	Thank you very much. We have three corrections. But I'll read it to you sooner. So, in accordance with Article 207. Article 2 The Rules of Procedure have expired time to report a ten-minute hearing. The first to correct the incorrect allegations came from Mr. Representative Đuro Popiac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4568	So, with this selective one, what the minister was saying. So model C... It's not selective. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, this model C could be reported by all firms in Croatia in difficulty. They could have appeared under strict, defined and clear rules as to how the Competition Agency and the legal regulations of competition imposes this. All companies therefore gave their restructuring programmes, which were evaluated by the competent ministry, sent by the Ministry of Finance, and only after the approval of the Competition Agency went into restructuring. Unfortunately, these are difficult conditions, they are, and they also assumed ultimately investment in capital with tax debt. So there was no selective decision, but the programme could indeed be reported by any entrepreneur in difficulty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4569	Thank you very much. Next up for the correction of an incorrect quote by Mr. Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4570	Thank you very much. Before I correct the allegations, I thank my colleague Linic for saying what he said. And I think if we discuss these difficult problems, if HDZ and SDP are put in such a way that we can solve the problem. But what happened yesterday is not good, Mr. Minister, because the same thing that my fellow Drinker said. I'm correcting my colleague Linic's incorrect claim that there was a selective write-off, but simply according to model C, all the companies could have reported. [[/Invader Batinić: Excuse me for correcting?]] Also, when a tender is opened at the Croatian Privatisation Fund, when it is sold for one kuna, it is known exactly what the procedure is and is not selective again. But I'm saying, it's a good thing the minister said what he said, because then the same way that colleague Dalic gave a good warning of interest, that we don't do some things wrong. And I think that's the way to argue. And then stories about these vast billions would get a slightly different dimension, because I say that's a story as old as the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4571	Thank you very much. Next for correcting the incorrect allegations, representative Mr. Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4572	I'm correcting this incorrect assumption that this severance payment was illegal. If this is thought of Đakovština in bankruptcy then it was quite legal, since the Republic of Croatia in one way or another was 32% the owner of the company appointed its representatives to the supervisory board that appointed the management. And with its inaction practically and its policy in that company led to bankruptcy. I wish that would happen now in KIO Nuts. And everywhere where the Government of the Republic of Croatia, or the Republic of Croatia, owns its own shares in its companies. Thank you. The law also needs to be passed because both the Government and the Republic are responsible for the situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4573	Thank you very much. But I didn't notice you were right. We're continuing an individual debate. The first one for discussion was registered by agent Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4574	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, with your assistant and associate, colleagues and colleagues. I think there are few who can find a reasonable reason not to support the adoption of this law. In the present situation, therefore, where, which is not almost or disputed here among us, what is tax debt and not just tax debt, all obligations were legal or natural persons versus the state. So, I support this bill that would reprogram tax debt and write off interest-based debt. In fact, I will repeat again even though this may be in a broader sense also have something to do with what we discussed yesterday, so when this debt is accumulated in Croatia, then it is clear to everyone, it is not only the result of the economic crisis. It is much deeper, it is the result of the moral crisis of a society, it is primarily the result of the corrupt elements of the regime that led to this. Of course, some colleagues have talked about it before, all those who have huge claims, i.e. huge debts to the state, who have been recognized in public because they were written and spoken of, compensated by patriotic words. But finally I think we must be all mature and realize that Croatia can not only be but also must love only in a way that despises the corrupt elements of any political option, especially those in the position of the government. Thus, without corruption, this debt could not be accumulated. And that's clear to everyone. There's talk here about the legal decisions that were made before. Of course, in our country and in the world, and especially in our country, there are few non-democratic laws, there are few non-democratic decisions, but there have been a lot of non-democratic practices. And we don't have to convince each other about it here, but we need to convince the citizens. How will a citizen perceive power as just, like one who thinks well of the citizens if all his resources, all his strength, that repressive apparatus that's always expensive to collect 500 kunas of debt that has grown over time and with interest to the debt that a citizen can no longer pay. At the same time, we pretend to be deaf, dumb and blind to those who owe hundreds and hundreds of thousands, that I do not speak to millions. Now the question is, so we all know it exists and it's happening. As things now, and this should be noted only so that it doesn't happen in the future anymore, and what to do so never happens again. So this is one fire measure to save what is to be saved, but also to see that such things never happen again in the future. That measure that was from that former prime minister here as a rescue welcome, so in that programme, let's remember quickly the Government, quickly.hr so that the company can be formed and the owners of those companies that have remained in debt and the state of large amounts, without talking about how much they remain in debt and workers. We have stood up against it, considered it a great injustice because we have just seen that those who have lost court disputes that they must pay in such a way avoid paying. And you were founded overnight by companies. We were persistent and for eight years we said that only before the end of the term would we return to that measure that we had introduced in 2000. So, if that was possible, if we don't have in our criminal legislation a non-payment of contributions, it's no longer a crime, then it's a message to these rich and larger ones to behave as they please. And in what way are they, here is mentioned unfair competition and I will mention it in a slightly wider sense, how is it to wear that common man to be celebrated, but who is then in the eyes of this whole constellation and the environment of a poor man, who respects all the laws, who pays everything, to whom he can be competitive? It fails because it's in such a competition, I wouldn't say unfair competition, but is fighting those who do illegal business and it has to fail. So in Croatia, those who behave legally could have failed, and those who have acted illegally had nothing to do with them. And that's something that led not only to this financial debacle but even more to the moral debacle. So what do we do after this measure? Well, that's very simple stuff. Let's look at ourselves a little bit and look up to those, banks, financial institutions that we often criticise here and rightly, but let's see how they invite their debtors after the first or the next month when they don't meet their obligation. So should tax authorities, as soon as one big subject gets in trouble to call him, why don't you pay for it, what's going on? And not to spend so much time, so now the one who created such debts is no longer a problem to himself, the problem to other believers, but becomes the biggest problem of the state. But then the one with a lot of rights, but without any morals, he calls, so save me, do something, I hire a large number of workers. The same workers he didn't pay for, who didn't pay for the contributions. So state and government can do anything, have all the mechanisms and give them support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4575	Thank you very much. Next up for debate counsel, and excuse me for anything. You gave up on the replica? Replica representative Nikola Vuljanić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4576	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I agree with my colleague Anticevic, this couldn't have happened without corruption. Such a quantity, such a level of incompetence, or if you want stupidity is not natural and does not exist. If this were about 2%, 5% of the budget, and you'd say, let's go somewhere, but it's half the budget, and that's impossible. I don't believe it, though, if there had been any tax write-offs on some secret or closed government sessions, it would have been, however, there are obvious traces and I don't believe that something like that was happening, that someone made such a move. But this isn't about the write-offs, this is about the debts that really exist. You told your colleagues there were few who might be against this law. I'll only name two groups. Those who were crazy enough to raise bank loans to pay tax debts, and there are others who would like to see who it is who is actually taking the state's money, don't return to the budget, even if it's above a certain level of tax debt from, say, a million kuna that is now not making a list of small debtors who may be sitting here in the Assembly, who may be in debt 10, 20, or 30,000 kuna, rather than making a list of large debts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4577	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Ms. Anticevic's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4578	Well, what I particularly wanted to point out was that of such a selective approach in practice. So here's an example. So let's not mention those who could form another company and remain in debt to millions. I'll mention one case that's really shaken. Not a month ago, a young couple came to me who bought a 38 - square - square apartment, had a small child, and the IRS seized a 1 -7 apartment and the debt was far away because it failed from the previous owner who sold them the apartment, if they had other properties because this was easier for them. Well, you can imagine that. Therefore, the Tax Administration is charged to 1/7 flats of 40 square meters from earlier, former owners of former owners who have real estate and allow them to be transferred to other persons in the meantime to avoid paying taxes. That's our justice, and that's what needs to end. These are small examples but they speak exactly what we've become tax collectors.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4579	Thank you very much. Next up for the debate, Madam Representative Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4580	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. With this amendment of the law for the third time, we are trying to actually help or give the public's income debtors a chance to regulate their obligations. This was the first time in early 2000, so in 2001 it was logical not only to reprogramme these debts but also to partially write down because the debts of economic operators operating in the war-occupied area were then recorded, so the return time when tax debts were to be settled that had accumulated in such entities. At that time, as I recall, it was about 23 billion kunas that were recorded on various tax and other charges or, as public administration says. Today we're in a position to almost double it. And I really think it's necessary to clean the balance sheets, clean the tax balances in the IRS, but clean the balance sheets in economic operators. It says here you can't write off or do it like that to clean up the balance sheet. So companies that no longer exist their obligations can't be recorded through the IRS because if the bankruptcy is over, you have to write off non-refundable claims. So, some arguments that there are claims from companies in '98. the years or companies that were in bankruptcy where the bankruptcy ended don't actually stand. We have a situation where these debts come from a number of grounds. This is partly due to the crisis, indivisibility, insolvency of the total economy, but it is a good part and a consequence of a high level of financial indiscipline that remains without sanctions for a long time. And now we are in a situation that at the end of 2011, the work of blocked business entities has been recorded and that this level of blocked debt has reached nearly 42 billion kuna. That she had escalated right in the time of the crisis since the end of 2007 to here for 23 billion kuna. So in these 23 billion kunas, they are, in fact, the largest part of the companies that are still doing business, and they are thus creating problems for those who could normally do business because they are paying their obligations disorderly. A very early 2008 anti-recession measure identified the problem. Even in order, it was the third measure, so the fight against indifference, and what did we get? We got it by increasing our liquidity to 23 billion kuna. And it wouldn't be worrying if it just stayed on that level. It's those debts that are blocked. How real the debts of economic operators are, in fact, we don't even have that kind of data at all right now. It is also alarming that in the latest report by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce following this area, it is said that "In three crisis years, the value of the outstanding liabilities has increased by 125% and that it accounts for 79% of the total transaction money". So if that's not an alarming piece of information, then I don't know what else should happen in the pay system that we're going to go on one more rigorous terms in financial business. We've heard different data here about how many states he's been looking for, so of some recorded 50 billion kuna that the former director of the IRS told us about about half a year ago, so that's all that's recorded since the 1990s on here, and I think that in that sense we should clean up that tax balance, so we're no longer talking about such data that are not accurate but they're not registered but they're not accurate. On the other hand, the IRS has now blocked an amount of $11.5 billion. Therefore, these are obligations towards the State on the basis of a solution from competent institutions on forced collection. Here, the minister said it was a 25.8 billion kuna amount that could be charged under certain conditions. And that's why I think it's good, and we all agree that we need to help at this point, no matter what these obligations are based on, to make it possible to reprogramme such economic operators. And what we're proposing is against the law that was in office last year as a newspaper. The length of reprogramme time is increasing from 30 months to 6 months, so the reprogramme can be up to 3 years. This leaves out contributions for the pension insurance of individuals, so it is a newspaper, it seems to me to be the second pillar that could not go into the programme, it must be paid to individual accounts of pensioners. And what's the most reprehensible is actually in discussions and committees, and even today there have been, a write-off of tights or interest. These are mostly tight interest rates because they relate to the dues. I believe that it is possible to do so because all debtors are in the same position, so everyone will have the right if they are able to repay the principal of their debt to use this possibility. I'm not sure that would be very supportive if we were to describe tight interest in this way. We have different thoughts about that. It is likely that the Competition Protection Agency will give its opinion. If this is illegal, we always have the opportunity to resolve it. And I also support what the Committee on Finance has given through the amendments, to shorten certain deadlines so that tax debt regulation and all those who will go into the programme can be regulated as soon as possible so that they can do so in a short period of time. However, for the resolution of the financial situation of certain economic operators this is only a small part of the possibility that they will settle their debts. It is important that such entities develop rehabilitation financial programmes as soon as possible, through which they will make proposals and resolve their long-term and short-term debts in a way that through the recovery programme they say or agree with their creditors how to resolve these debts. That must include all the believers. The biggest creditors of our economic operators, including individuals, are business banks, and then perhaps the state and other creditors of suppliers. That is why I think it is necessary to adopt the Financial Business Act as soon as possible, which will be regulated on the one hand by the financial discipline in payment traffic, on the other hand by the resolution of these accumulated debts that individuals have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4581	Thank you. Two MPs reported on the replica. The first representative is Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4582	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Zgrebec, you said for the third time here you were trying to find a way to help, and in that part, I noticed the consent of the majority who participated in the debate, so in any case. But here's the thing I've been thinking about since you're the longtime president of the Agriculture Committee. These days when our farmers here are frozen on the roads I want to warn you of one moment that they could be with those who have not therefore settled that there could be an even greater number of those who will not be able to meet their obligations and that there will be even greater ones who will be in this combination, and these are our family farms. We know what the number is. In the circumstances of course when VAT is growing, in the circumstances when we see that diesel is growing every day, and here is simply milk falling by 1 kuna, such a blow would rarely be taken by anyone and of course our peasant who works under the open sky and in these changed climate conditions, so here I am using that opportunity to warn you of that moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4583	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Agent Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4584	Dear Milinkovic, you are knocking on the wrong door because this year the debts are paid to farmers on the basis of the support that should have been paid in 2011, and according to our new aid law that is in line with European legislation, we can only pay the support in 2013 for 2012.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4585	Thank you very much. Replica, representative of Mr. Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4586	Thank you very much. I'm still going back on the subject and I think that from the debate and Mr. Minister and some MPs from the ruling coalition we can only agree on something. For the past 10 years, there have been 3 legal attempts, actually 5 with special laws and there have been a number of attempts to solve the problem of non-payment. But what's the fact is, if we're going to solve this problem, we can't get away from the fact. So in 2002 and you can take the debate and you'll see that many things from these discussions can still be applied today, so in 2002 we talked about a 23.5 billion kuna debt, today it's 50. And then in the debate, it was said that we must simply structure that debt, the one that is chargeable, and the one that is uncharging and give this House to make a decision about who it will be written down so that no one can call anyone tomorrow. And when we talk about that charge, look at your colleagues and colleagues, the 97% bill seems high, but when you look at 97% at 83, 84 billion, then that 3% makes you 2.2.5 billion unpaid liabilities, and when you multiply it by 10, then you get to 20 and something else billion. And that's just facts you can't escape from. Also, the fact is that the IRS has done a series of blockades, a series of attempts but what counterpart Linic said, and there's been two of us over the years that we've been fighting together. Neither the Ministry of Finance nor the Government of the Republic of Croatia without great support from the judiciary can do anything. At the moment when someone sues and it's crystal clear and crystal clear, and when the verdict is made in a month to foam, to take it, to make someone pay, you'll see how many debtors disappear. And at the moment the OIB functions at the High Commercial Court, I guarantee you that the conditions will be met to eliminate 60% of those who muddle the state with the opening of new companies and leaving commitments. Because of that, it was one of the reasons why...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4587	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4588	But I repeat, if I may just one more sentence. I think this is a problem that bothers all Croatian citizens. This problem has no political colour, this problem is crucial for the Republic of Croatia. But if we're going to do something, then the facts must be accepted as they are. And that's why I said yesterday that the IRS must never be a political institution and it was never a lady. You need me, I know you're in the way of a debate like this. when there's a consensus in the crucial things. [[Upadica Batinić: Finish counsel Šuker.]] It bothers you because you can't fight, but I can't help you here. And I'm sorry you actually broke up this way.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4589	The answer to Zgrebec's replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4590	So I've just said through the debate, we're now talking about how many of those obligations are recorded, and 50 billion kuna is being talked about. That's what Mr. Mladneo said at a meeting of the Finance Committee in the last meeting, and then he said he'd give us lists, of course not by companies, but by years, etc. and the ones to be written off. And that's what we should do. And I urge us to do it as soon as possible, not to drag through the balance sheets something that is both insatiable and insurmountable. And I also agree with you that indiscipline is a financial good part of being generated by long court proceedings. I mean, it's a long process if you sue the claim. Even once the supplier tells you, so sue me, then you won't get paid for seven years. And I think that all entities in Croatia, therefore from business from economies, business banks, courts must be on the same, so we as a legislative body and government in the same business and really introduce one discipline. Because tomorrow, when we are members of the European Union, we will have to respect the standards that are normal in the world as regards the payment of our debts.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4591	Thank you very much. Next up for debate, Mr. Dragutin Lesar's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4592	Thank you very much, dear fellow vice president. Mr. Linic, I must admit that after your second intervention today, I prepared the debate and began to prepare it over and over again because someone finally answered a series of questions that were self-imposed by reading the bill. I would ask you to indeed what you have presented today in the Assembly data on total tax debts and contributions debts under their structure, legal, natural persons, it is always the subject of a description of the situation followed by the bill. Because then we who are not at a direct source of information and data would have a more complete picture. I just wanted to tell you that from the assessment of the state of the proposed law, there was neither the total amount of debt nor the structure, the amount of tax and contribution. And it's really good that you brought out the information that out of the 25 billion kunas that are in regular charge you estimate that about 13 billion could be charged out of those 50 total 25 is already clearly unpaid in advance. These 13 billion, if I remember correctly, is about the amount corresponding to what the budget for this year has to be charged by the state along with the extra budget users. So that's the assessment now, so for the first time today we've heard that it could be charged to 13 billion, or about as much as we have to borrow, which obviously wouldn't have been necessary if this situation hadn't happened. And we really are now at the moment when we have to decide, and if I understand you correctly, you are heading that way whether we will have a Tax Administration in Croatia and a tax system run by Super Hick or Robin Hood or if you want the Charuga. It is now obvious that Super Hick ran the tax system in Croatia after all this data we have received for months. I must remind myself that I am on 17 March 2011. He asked the Ministry of Finance through two representative written questions about total tax debts, in particular from income tax and VAT and pension and health contributions. And after the longer wait, I received a written reply from the Minister of Finance at the time. I later learned that two, three officials, two, three days had to balance the answer so the paper would come to me without writing anything in it. However, according to the answer at the time, I will only quote one sentence that it reads: "From the above, we appreciate that by respecting the temporary character and the constant change in the total tax liability balance, the Tax Administration cannot give you the tax debt information. From the above, we appreciate that while respecting the obligations of the contribution are monitored at the level of the employer, and not at the analysis at the level of the worker, the Tax Administration cannot give you any information on how many contributions are unpaid." And in the end, I asked for a list of taxpayers who owed more than 30,000 kuna. Not those of 100 kuna, not 1,000, not 5, not 10, but 30,000. And the answer ended: "By calling on Article 8. The general tax code that declared it a secret information." And indeed, if you want to make it possible for all of us, and we demand that the list of taxpayers be made public, I now ask you immediately to support the amendment and addition of Article 8. The general tax law that we will write or the Government itself will amend Article 8. A general tax law not to duplicate business. If by this delay, by a settlement, by extending the period of payment of tax obligations and contributions, therefore I always stress and the contribution seems to be to save at least a thousand jobs, then a valuable attempt. But we haven't found a guarantee that these same taxpayers, especially when it comes to legal persons, their owners through another company tomorrow, another legal entity will either newly established or not do the same thing again. Because they're used to it, they're used to that kind of tax behavior. So there are no protection mechanisms against these and such that they will not be as you said they should not pay taxes to the state. So it's not enough for us just to get into trouble because of the economic or economic crisis because we know that not all of them are tax debtors, but how to prevent them and eliminate them from the market. Second, OIB. For the third time, I am having problems with the OIB and the OIB system and I am asking if you have prepared and dragged any decisive final steps to ensure that the OIB system works not only for citizens, but especially in the High Commercial Court, to make excuses that something cannot be paid. I suppose you agree with me that without that, indeed and without shortening the bankruptcy procedures, this measure will not be effective until the end. That's two reasons for our reserve because your words tend to make you do something, but we're disabled because we don't know what and then we're always mad at you and we're gonna be mad at you when you're not giving us all the information in time so we can grade. Now the citizens of this country are also following this debate so that we can take off the dilemma of whether anyone knows anything, knew, could know or not. One very interesting text that came to me that no one could send who didn't know and writes like this: "Every reference for each activity in the IRS has a mandatory file and one push of the debt list knows who's active. But the leaders and leaders of the sector are selecting those for the blockade and the Executive Department in the IRS. The JMBG card also shows purchased cars, real estate, etc., etc., etc." So this is proof that so far it's known I just had to say press one button and then the problem started that someone above was doing the selection. Is there a choice here, too? That's my last question. Therefore, Article 8. The general tax code or you or we, we are able to propose it today, and is there really protection from the selection that has been present so far? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4593	Thank you very much. Replica, Madam Representative, are you giving up? Then we can go further into an individual discussion. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4594	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Yes, Mr. Lesar, call for Article 8. The general tax code was cited in several written questions and was quoted on my part as the one that was being defended to find out here's the data. But in this very legislative proposal, in the assessment of the situation and the fundamental issues that need to be regulated by law and the consequences that the law will take place, I think it's exactly what Mr. Minister said about those 25 billion kunas, so that 10 billion timetable in the blockade, 2 billion in the budget, 2 billion in delays, etc. that it could actually be called in this text about the assessment of the situation. Furthermore, as Mr Shuker says, 3% of the non-payment is accumulated over 10 years, and apparently the previous 10 years have accumulated by 2002, so it is 25 and 25=50. That's kind of how it all works out together, isn't it? And from 2002 to 2012, in 10 years these past 25 billion kuna. Clearly, given these data on the vast billions of kunas that would have been at least partially finished in the Tax Administration, then we probably wouldn't have either the budget deficit or the need to raise foreign loans that follow, would we, in fact, have the costs, or the expenditure side of the budget provided for by the 119 billion kuna, therefore fully respected. The financial indiscipline, then the gibberish as Mr. Shucker had me quote it with the opening of a fax company or as someone said here by phantom companies or those who have only one fax where no one has one or no employees, etc. That's what, so then the compensation system where you no longer see that tax debt and tax liability of one company to another, that's what's going on in society today, and we all know from our environment and closer still that there are those who don't pay tax debts for years and where they are cumulating, so it's true that there's some discretionary, discretionary law starting with the IRS and then there are still people who accumulate that tax debt. What principle? Whether politically, whether I would not go into it friendlyly, but much is known mainly in the middle of smaller ones, so where almost people know each other, they know entrepreneurs and know how they do business and how they do business, who buys expensive cars, and doesn't settle their tax obligations or contribute obligations. And you know it, you can even see it. This legal proposal from the HDSSB club will be accepted. They will accept for the reason that this really shows a good will to, however, what someone says here is irrevocably and inexplicably reduced to some minor measure and to be reprogrammed as a single form, so reprogramming tax debt and increasing from 30 to 36 months if the taxpayer accepts to pay that legal interest, or to pay only the principal, and without reprogramming. So these are the two basic measures. To pay only the principal without interest or to pay in an extended period of 36 months to pay the total debt. So these are the two measures that this legislative proposal provides for. Here, in the first debate on behalf of the club, someone said that those who have great difficulties in meeting their tax obligations, I think that you, Mr Vuksic, have said that, are also surprised and angry, therefore unsurprisingly surprised, that with great difficulty and difficulty they have managed to settle their tax obligations and also contribute clearly to pension, social, etc., HZO, and now some jackpot for those who have been undisciplined, therefore, tax-undisciplined. In order for this to be amortised or compensated, and yet in good faith that this legislative proposal will receive a financial result, therefore God forbid it to receive a financial result, in this case it could, and in this case, go to the conclusion that the HDZB will submit to the Republic of Croatia to commit the Government of the Republic of Croatia to establish a new programme or programmes of financial support to companies that have so far been able to settle their tax obligations and therefore contribute through HBOR as well as funds or parts of the funds that will be made available under this law. That's the conclusion of the HDSSB that came here and on the benches as far as I can see and that's why we're going to make this bill. We have faith, Mr. Lesar is talking about how we will be able to control how this law will be applied. I believe that there are tools that will improve tax discipline, and then if this law gets a financial result that through HBOR I would say preventively help, preventatively that companies that are successful in dealing with their company's obligations in order not to fall in, but rather, difficulties and indications that they would not be able to meet their tax obligations in order to make their contributions already from this fund from these financial assets that are realised through this law and through HBOR to help them prevent them from falling into greater difficulties and others again social and paying their taxes and contributions. Here is our contribution and contribution to this debate and to the HDSSB club as said by counterpart Vinkovic will support this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4595	Thank you, too. And finally, in an individual debate, Mr. Representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4596	So here I am in preparation for the debate on this law I am faced with what Mr. Lesar mentioned, which is that no data on the state of the tax debt has actually been given in the assessment, and then it was very difficult to be prepared as a representative for something that is not even quantified here is stated in the debate. There's a 2011 State Audit report on late 2010. It said that the tax debt was then HRK 41 billion 500 million, with 20 billion in fees of 11.5, etc. Of course, we support every measure that contributes to improving and improving the state budget and state finances. What is the problem with this law that he comes 7 or 8 months after the HDZ law of April last year which was the last reprogramming. So then a little bit of a question is asked in some way and credibility, let's say this is the last one, and after eight months now, the next possible reprogramming takes place. This last reprogramme from April last year here we heard from fellow Dalic that about 2,000 100 companies entered the programme, and that it was completely reprogrammed if I heard well a billion and a half kuna, which makes up about 3% of the tax debt. We all understand the state of things in the state. So corruption didn't root out with the arrest of 10 or 20 people, so we're still a corrupt state and there's no doubt about it. And state corruption is present and state non-payment is present and these are the problems that are further away. They haven't changed because the state government has changed. Two possible reprogramme models are listed here. Now, the question is, then, whether or not the goal is to charge 13 billion unpaid taxes and contributions. Only two models indicated. Either immediately without any heavy interest or for 36 months at a tight interest rate. Since the ruling majority has a very large stable majority, I would wonder why they were not a little braver. Why wasn't it possible for both of us at the same time? Why is it not possible to pay off one part of the debt immediately the rest on the reprogramme? Is that really inconclusive? Why is it not possible to flexible the period of both? So what's the point? Is the goal really to try to collect everything that can be charged? If the goal is to really do it, then why not further flexible? Why or, or point and nothing else? Different payment deadlines, different deadlines of a tight interest, possibility of a combination of both. And all that can be done to try to collect that debt to whatever extent possible. Because it's clear in this previous model that the last one that was, once every 30 months, the reprogramme was charged a billion and a half. It is not difficult to determine the impact of these measures. He certainly can't and won't be 13 billion kunas. So, the IRS is a huge system, there's a lot of outposts, there's a lot of employees, well-organized, why maybe there's not a little more courage to try to increase that carrot to those debtors? That's actually it. We support it. And my opinion, therefore, is not the club's opinion, that perhaps this debt-paying model could try to make it a little more complicated and somehow a little bit more flexible. Because it's not the same thing if you have 20 million kunas or 50 debt at the same time or you're going to pay them off in the next three years. Maybe there's a possibility in some different ways to make that payment. Here's what this other thing is about the law itself we support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4597	Thank you. We have one replica. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4598	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues Đurovic, as you yourself have said, will support these amendments to the law as a measure that can help the Croatian economy but not those who avoid various ways of paying their obligations. However, here at this point, while we are discussing how to help the Croatian economy, those of whom annually receive between 5 to 6 billion kunas on the basis of VAT are unsuccessfully holding their conversation at the Ministry of Agriculture which continues to try exclusively to be a moderator of the principle of UMPROFOR and do not stand in the protection of Croatian production and Croatian producers in such a way that it is through the measures and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but also the Ministry of Agriculture and those who produce milk and are aware that there are no specific incentives, and we also have to be aware as citizens that these liters of milk would be 15 kunas, and not what large processors of these dairy products offer at this point to producers 2.30 kuna, and this calculation dates back to January this year, so not from 10 or 15 days ago, but in January this year. So here we are asking the Government but also the Ministry of Agriculture to stand in the protection of domestic production and domestic producers because this is the only possible solution so that they do not enter into this law and that they do not have to reprogramme their debts, so that according to that people's "better prevented than treated".
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4599	Thank you. Replica reply, Mr. Representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4600	Yes, better to prevent than to treat, and if treated then to treat with enough strong medicines if possible. I wanted to say about the crime you mentioned and the corruption, of course not the law, it would be good if in the country the one who stole the kuna had an analogue one day in prison, and the one who stole a million kunas a million days in prison. Unfortunately, we often have cases of very low and legitimate prison sentences for very serious acts in the area of economic crime, and on the other hand, very high penalties for some poor people who entered the bookshop, took 200, 300 or 500 kuna once in their lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4601	Thank you very much. Finally, the final word of the applicant's representative. Minister of Finance Mr. Slavko Linic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4602	Mr. President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Here I accept the criticism regarding that perhaps we should have given more information in our explanation, so we will simply in future really try to document at least that part of the financial regulations that come to the Assembly with as much data as possible. Also, if you'll allow me, I would like to provide the President of the Parliament with all relevant information on the figures that I just spoke of to deliver to the clubs and to any representative so that, given that this is also a matter that will be of great interest to the public once again. A few more references to the debate itself. There has been a lot of debate here about how many economic operators are the ones who create dubiosis, opening up new companies. We need to know that this was prohibited by law until 2004, that the government had removed this article that prevented commercial courts from disabling such activity, but that it also seemed to me in 2010 that the government had reintroduced this article by which companies that had left unclean pasts and unclean accounts could not have been established, whether they were referring to the state or to other creditors. So again we have in the system very clearly that there are huge restrictions in that part. It is likely that if we clear that this part can be further restricted in some ways because it is evident that any attempt to stop any abuse at the speed of opening up companies can also be allowed by someone to cheat because it is clearly a fraud. It may also be related to the debate to point out that, as far as the OIB itself is concerned, several times, it has been pointed out how important it is to combat abuse, in the fight against the fraud of a fairer system of taxation of those who hide and income, and on the other hand do not pay taxes. That the OIB system is already significantly regulated in our respective ministries and our assessment is that it will be almost fully applied at 1.6. We still need to arrange relations with the Trade Court, relations with the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, transport and property-related links and estimated value of the property in the ships. And of course what we still need to coordinate is the question of using various incomes such as child benefits, various additions based on social programmes that are not in line with the OIB. This is something that is more or less technically necessary to coordinate and at that point the OIB by us with 1.6 will be fully in use so that further abuses are well known to prevent. It is also very clear that already now the Tax Administration is doing huge checks on the available data that we have to date and that many, many violations of tax rules, tax laws, and I would say the concealment of income at this point are being investigated and that this is something that we will slowly and give data in that part. There was a proposal if we were to modify the article of the General Tax Code, yes, we would add, in addition to that article which is a sentence that will speak unless it is a tax debtor. Therefore, the protection of tax data and the confidentiality of tax data is required except for the debtor and the Ministry of Finance will propose such changes to the Government so that I believe that we will find common interest in this section regarding Article 8. The law. The debate on the report of the Committee on Finance also mentions the amendments to cities and municipalities proposed by the Association of Cities and municipalities that it would be good for this law to regulate the possibility of units of local self-government that they, by virtue of their rules and original rights, also have the right to such aid procedures in view of the conditions of the crisis. The opinion is that the government would not be able to accept it for a reason because we here define 36 months which is questionable whether certain units of local self-government can accept such conditions and I would say quite an incentive interest which is questionable whether units of local self-government could do it. On the other hand, we believe that any unit of local self-government can make decisions regarding supporting the economy in the context of the crisis. This is therefore a decision which can also serve them to make a similar decision to their respective representative bodies and define their decisions because they are their incomes and depending on their fiscal power and the decisions of the representative body can define it. I think these messages are because the good part of the audits they are trying to say in their controls should have made more efforts to collect their incomes, and we believe that there are decisions by representative bodies such as here in this bill the Parliament can also make certain decisions on support for the economy. As far as amendments one and two of the Financial Committees are concerned, we accept it and I don't think it should be specifically explained that it is sufficient for 30 or 60 days to process the cases as soon as possible and that the tax administration's conduct is more effective at the moment. Therefore, talking about whether or not there have been personal abuses is always possible but that is something we will now try to simply eliminate. Because the moment we carry out these procedures, I simply don't believe anyone in the IRS will reach out for some object to be postponed, kept in a drawer, delayed by a few months, etc. Which, in our opinion, won't be possible, because we'll use additional controls if possible, I'd say individual interventions and stop. Also, in the debate, it was said whether we could make the law ourselves more flexible with different possibilities. Then we are trying to say that the problem of insolvency and insolvency in Croatia is not only a problem because of the non-payment of tax liabilities. Unfortunately, the demand for the banking system is growing and the other creditors are also in the process of business activities, and that is why we are thinking about a new Financial Business Law proposal where we place our claims as a function of financial consolidation but with all the other participants. Therefore, it would not be right if only the tax of claims at this point were a factor of financial consolidation. We want to have banks inside with our claims, together with taxes, because that's the only way we can solve insolvency and insolvency. So, all the believers along with the debtors, so that's why this is just phase one. And further on the various possibilities and criteria will be through this second bill that we are preparing in the package. What I want to mention once again is support. So the interest we want to write off to speed up the charge is support, and what we think is support on the basic principles that we are proposing here, and then will individually decide everything. Therefore, we expect the competent agency that assesses the government's acts to be higher and higher in support of the assessment and that part. But we think we'll get more if we suggest and write off interest rates that are tightened interest rates, very high interest rates and which then make up essentially a tax debt very, very questionable for individual entities if they haven't paid that one with such high interest sanctioned. And also, the proposal for representatives regarding the possible conclusion of the Croatian Parliament is acceptable and the government will accept it because the HBOR has various programmes and we agree that it is a good idea that at least those who I would have said pay particularly with HBOR programmes are stimulated by individual projects in view of their regularity, so in HBOR we will try to make such a conclusion through the proposal of the additional programme and implement it. I thank all the MPs for the debate and for their suggestions and suggestions.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4603	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We're done arguing. We'll vote when we get the Rules of Procedure's terms and conditions. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on a special rate of payment of tax debt caused by the economic crisis, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 44. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. I would like the representative of Mr. Secretary Linic's proposal to declare that, we have two amendments. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4605	The Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts both the first and second amendments of the Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4606	Thank you very much. We no longer have amendments to this final bill. Is there anything you'd like to say, Mr. Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4607	That's right. Before I turn to the vote, I would like to say on behalf of the promoter that, when writing the text of the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the special extent of payment of the tax debt caused by the economic crisis, a technical error was made which reads as follows: "Article 10c(2) of the Law wrongly entered in Article 12(2) of this Law" and should be read as follows: "Article 10b paragraph 2 of this Law." since the article does not exist. So I'd like you to respect the technical correction. It is agreed with the Parliament's service to be purely technical, since there is no article 12, it does not exist. Here.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4608	So let's get things straight. It's not an amendment, but I'm asking if anyone has any objections? I think we should appreciate something like that because it's been spoken out loud and publicly here. I don't think there's any repercussion, but there's just been a technical mistake, to appreciate it. If you'd be up,... Please, I would go further, find that it has some material and other repercussions, so on the very law and the consequences of that law, then of course the Government is obliged, or we in the Parliament to correct it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Do you agree with this amendment proposed by Mr. Linic? Thank you. That this must not be a rule of course, it can only be an exception in the way the law is passed. So please nice, Mr. Representative Grubisic. Here you go. On account of this, look now, at this correction he's proposing?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4609	Not for the sake of correction, but for
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4610	No, no. Then you can't. Don't be mad.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4611	But we had a conclusion that we had directed to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4612	But this one's coming up now.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4613	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4614	Take it easy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4615	You wanted to put it to a vote so that before voting that word or two.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4616	I'm closing the debate. In accordance with Article 154. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and the Proposal for a Legislative Committee shall give the following conclusion to the vote, which shall be determined that there are, in particular, justified reasons for the return to the functioning of Articles 2, 3, 7 and 10b of the Law. I said who suggested it. You want me to do it again? Proposal for a Legislative Committee, i.e. a home working body. Let's get involved in the vote, we'll vote on the proposal for a conclusion, and we'll vote on the law later. Thank you. I find that the conclusion was reached by a majority of votes of 86 in, 32 against and 7 abstentions. I am now voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get involved and vote. It doesn't work, does it? Now it's working. You can't answer for a word. So once again, I think this device is working now. Let's get involved and vote on the final bill. I'd give you my word if the Rules of Procedure made it possible, but it won't allow me. I can't give you my word. I'm sorry. When we discuss the draft amendments to the Rules of Procedure, then you will be able to talk about it. I find that most of the votes 85 for, 34 against, 11 abstentions have been passed a law amending and supplementing the Law on the special rate of payment of the tax debt caused by the economic crisis in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted. Accordingly, we are now coming to this yours, but you cannot get the word, in accordance with the proposal of the HDSSB's Club of Representatives, which I agree to vote on: "The Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to establish a new programme of financial support to companies that have been dealing with their tax obligations neatly so far, and there are objective indications that they are in business difficulties." Please, let's get involved and vote. They could be unanimous there. Do we understand each other now, Mr. Representative? There was just a little misunderstanding in the walk so I told you to wait. I find that the conclusion was probably made because of the failure of one representative, otherwise it would have been unanimous. So I find that the conclusion was made with most votes of 128 for and 1 abstention. And now we move to the next item of the agenda, which is - The final draft law amending the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 43. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by four committees of the Committee on Law, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget and the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Here you go, Mr. Minister. Mr. Finance Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4618	Mr. President of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Given the tax legislation package that we wanted to sort of burden on the economy, and I would say the most socially vulnerable part of the public is passed on to consumption. There has also been an amendment to the Income Tax Act, which by law we have increased the untaxable parts from 1800 to 2200 kuna per month, and in pensioners from 3200 to 3400. With such a proposal that we have tried the lowest protection wages given the possible strokes of inflationary and certain price changes, we have reduced the incomes of the local self-government unit, in some ways wanting the largest part of the local self-government units, given the less revenue that will be made to you, the proposal for a law amending the Local and Regional Self-Government Units Act is conceived in such a way that the units of local and regional self-government are left with two index points of income tax, while at the same time reducing by two index points of funds for joint funding and thus trying to mitigate the missing funds in units of local self-government. When we talk about two index points of the larger share then we think that cities and municipalities should increase 1.5% and the county 0.5%. In the discussions held by committees, there were many comments that such a redistribution would increase two index points of city income, municipalities and counties would nevertheless remain part of the municipalities with smaller average employee incomes without funds or better said that this measure would be insufficient and that, nevertheless, some of the municipalities and smaller towns would record a slightly smaller income based on income tax from I would say the measures previously withdrawn. The proposed government believes that this is indeed a fact and that the average salaries in the Republic of Croatia are such and significant differences in certain regions and that it is really possible that part of the cities and municipalities will still have slightly less income than it would have been if we had not taken the measure of increasing the untaxable work. In front of us who propose such measures, the question is always how do we resolve this part? And what I really want to point out on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia is that any combination of the tax section belonging to units of local and regional self-government with average payments is indeed an unacceptable model, an unknown model, and we don't think that simple average incomes in certain cities and municipalities should have an impact on the level of tax rates because in such a case the only way in which I would say damage all units of local self-government that generate slightly less income in view of the new provisions on the non-taxable work. So the combination in that part is unacceptable for us in the government and that's why we've defined ourselves for two index points. Why didn't we define ourselves for three index points? It's very simple because then a part of cities and municipalities would make more income than a measure that would be reduced revenues in the mass of cities and municipalities. In our view, this is an amount of 193 million kuna, which is the measure of increasing the untaxable part of the relationship, and on the other hand these two index points bring. Another measure that seemed to me a few years ago by the government was proposed a slightly higher income to units of local self-government with a lower fiscal capacity, and a reduction to the City of Zagreb as a city that has slightly higher averages in the Republic of Croatia, so the proposal was to make the imbalance between strong local self-government units by income and weaker attempts to compensate for smaller revenues in the city, larger cities, and especially the City of Zagreb, and in favour of small ones. For the government of the Republic of Croatia, such distribution is also not acceptable and we do not think that we should continue to redistribute in a way that takes stronger, shifts weaker. All this just suggests is that we have a serious business ahead of us, a job called financing local self-government, and in that part try to define how funding is then, but also what is the weakness of the entire system of local self-government, which is that our cities and municipalities have the same powers independent of their fiscal capacity. And apparently, the division of cities and municipalities by fiscal capacity will also be our essential division of future cities and municipalities of those who can or cannot deal with individual businesses that are transferred to local self-government units. And that at that moment, when we define the units of local self-government, it will also be possible to change the rates of separation based on income tax on local self-government units, of course depending on the competences they have. We are aware that part of the units of local self-government will have slightly less income, but we have estimated that two index points is as much as we could single out that imbalance and that important changes and problems shouldn't be in it. Also in the debates there have been a lot of objections whether we are reducing some of the funds for balancing or for decentralised functions from 17.5 to 15.5 at risked the system of financing common decentralised functions we are trying to clearly indicate that this does not stand and that the allocated funds are sufficient for this year's decentralised functions programmes, and also quite enough to finance the system of alignment given the unequal revenues of the units of local self-government. In fact, comparing achievements last year and this year, the impression is that around 300 million is a smaller amount. I would just like to point out that last year's execution and last year's plan are payments based on outstanding commitments from 2010 amounting to around 250 million, which is essentially the amount that created the impression that the amount for this year will be greater than the available funds. Therefore, we have made it very clear that we have also tried to draw up documents on how much funds will be provided for decentralised functions in 2012 and available funds, and then we have come to the conclusion that there should be no problem and that there will be enough resources. On the one hand, a good part of the cities that may achieve a slightly larger amount, given this redistribution of 2%, will also have a greater obligation to repay funds based on decentralised functions because the original revenues will be such that they will have to return some of the funds which will be quite enough for these redistributions. Thus, one system that cannot solve the underlying problem again is that there is not enough funding for the needs of local self-government units that in some way the Law on the financing of local self-government individuals must change significantly and that is why the Government also believes that property taxes must be those which will be the basis of the financing of local self-government units and that this part of the income based on the taxation of salaries will nevertheless be compensated with the incomes of local self-government units and that then the incomes of local self-government will be far higher because, nevertheless, this part of the property tax is mostly income of local self-government units. And that's the paper, that's the necessary reforms we're going to have to do this year. So we say this is an attempt to ease the impact on local self-government units given the change but irregularities and injustices this part of the law cannot solve and we are aware that this part will in some way remain a burden. We are also not the central government that wants to challenge the rich cities and this and redistribute to work among them. We estimate that it was done once and that this government didn't want to do it. And just for a little while, in addition to these fundamental changes that we made in the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government Units, you saw that we threw out and deleted articles from 52 to 82. For the reason that these are now articles defined by the Budget Law, there is no need to repeat them in the Law on Units of Local Self-Government, and Articles 87 and 88 have been brought into line with the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government and that they needed to be amended in order to comply with this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4619	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Here you go. Mr Zoran Vinkovic rapporteur of the Committee on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4620	Thank you, Mr. President. The Committee on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament at the 3rd session held on 21 February 2012 discussed the proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of units of local, regional (regional) self-government, with the Final Proposal, first and second reading. I'll read this record briefly. In the discussion of the board members following the opening presentation, it was pointed out that the whole package of amendments to the tax laws resulted in a significant reduction of financial resources in the budgets of units of local, regional or regional self-government. It has been pointed out that this proposed law will not significantly compensate for the funds that will be reduced, but rather through the adoption of the state budget and the adoption of a package of tax laws. It is pointed out in particular that the adoption of this law for the consequence will have an extremely uneven and uneven distribution of financial resources intended for units of local, regional (regional) self-government. The opinion is also expressed that, for these reasons, some units of local, regional or regional self-government will not be able to function at all. Following the discussion, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government unanimously proposed the following conclusion: The Committee on Local, Regional (regional) Self-Government proposes to the Croatian Parliament to reach a conclusion that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to implement systematic fiscal decentralisation measures through income tax, income tax, real estate tax, and value added tax. This conclusion was unanimously adopted. And the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government decided by a majority of votes of 7 votes in favour and 3 votes against proposed to the Croatian Parliament to pass the Law amending the Law on the financing of units of local self-government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4621	Thank you. No one's answering on behalf of the board anymore. Then I open the debate and announce that we have five representatives of clubs and 12 for an individual debate. I suggest we have a half-hour break as usual and continue the debate at three and we'll definitely finish this point today, and maybe another or two of us will see the same thing. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain, I don't see that he's here. He's gone. He's losing his right. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party Mr. Representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4622	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, ministers. These interventions in the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government Units are trying to find a solution to make up for the calculation of the Ministry of Finance 193 million kuna as their revenues will be lower due to an increase in the amount of the non-taxable part of the salary. The share of municipalities or cities from 55 increases to 56.5 in the original income tax, the county from 15.5 to 16 so by 0.5, if I were not to read the new distribution with these percentages now, I probably wouldn't understand. It seems to me that the minister has also expressed a fearsome or precise calculation that part of the municipalities and cities of this change will not get covered shortfall or shortfall in how much they will lose due to the increased untaxable part of the salary. I agree with that because according to the 2010 fiscal capacity data, and for '11. We still have no data and we couldn't calculate them, where these municipalities and cities or in which counties and what counties they are, are where the greatest consequences will be. If we count or count or look at the fiscal capacity of tax revenues only, then not only the tax revenues, per capita of the least tax revenues, taking into account municipalities, cities and counties, so the collection of local and regional self-government is achieved in Virovitica-Podravska County, only 1661 kuna per capita, in 2010. Next to it is Brodo-Posaviska with 1741 kuna, and then Međimurska with 1765 kuna, so the fourth from below is Vukovar-Srijemska with 1869, in the fifth place of Koprivnica-križevacka 1960, on the sixth Bjelovar-Bilogorska 1987, and then Požeko-Slavonska with 1991. Seven of Croatia's weakest regions when the population's income is calculated by the head. Try now to imagine these counties on the geographical map of Croatia where they are, where they are located. When we enter the total budgets, therefore the total income of municipalities, cities and counties for the same year 2010 according to the same model per capita is at least achieved by Brod-Posaviska 2929, so it is immediately Međimurska only 3059, followed by Krapina-Zagorska with 3140 and Požega-slavonska 3391, then Bjelovarsko-Bilogorska, so Vukovar-Srijemska, and Varazdinska, pa Karlovačka. I took the seven weakest and the tax criteria and by the criteria of the total revenues of municipalities, cities and counties. Place them on the map of Croatia where they are. Most of these regions in Croatia are known as the richest, talk about Međimurje as small Switzerland. Whether the authorities of the municipality, the city or the county of Međimurje, Brodo-Posaviska, Bjelovarsko-Biogorje are less than or equal to those of the City of Zagreb or those of the counties where income per capita is, say, more than 4000 kuna, tax or total more than 7,000 kuna per capita, such as in the City of Zagreb, Istria, Primorje-Gorski, Ličko-Senjska, Dubrovnik-Neretvanska and other counties. I agree that the income tax model depending on the level of average salaries would probably be impossible in an operational and technical sense. But I think the ministers could do at least for this calendar year one bypass through a real estate tax which is a common tax if I'm not wrong at 60:40. Well, at least for 2012, let the state of its share give up, except for the City of Zagreb, because they have 8500 per capita incomes, and in this way some of the compensation could still not be lost. This is one of the proposals I believe that without a major earthquake, the state budget could be compensated by the local self-government, but the basis for the realistic criterion of the movement of the tax on real estate. If not as a permanent then temporary solution for 2012, until developed, propose and create a completely new model of funding for local self-government. I know, you're going to tell me what the bill is, it's going to wait two months to put it on the agenda, the procedure is much faster when the government proposes something like that, you're aware of that. Here's my appeal to you. Finally, in the draft law, you delete from the Law on the financing of local self-government of the provision of Articles 52 to 82, with the reason that this matter is regulated by the Budget Act and that is the case. But there's another problem for ministers when someone writes one law and reads another and calls on your associates to read more carefully. Because in the Budget Act, and check, Article 3(19), Article 37(2) and (4), Article 40, when local self-government is saying that the budget of the municipalities, cities and counties is proposed to the representative body by the head office of the municipality, the city and the county, that the head office is an executive of the budget, that the head office delivers data, reports and other things. The chieftainships as far as I know have been lifted long ago and someone has forgotten to amend the Budget Law so we have an absurd situation now, and I'm not just saying this because of the nomotechnical harmonisation of the law, but also the facts. No head of the municipality, mayor or mayor under this law is obliged to propose a budget, and some have used it and have not proposed budgets for this year to launch extraordinary elections in their municipality for representative bodies because according to the letter of the Law on Local Self-Government, if the budget is not adopted, the representative body falls. But the Budget Law didn't oblige the mayor, the mayor and the mayor to propose a budget, rather than a chapter. That's what I've talked about three times, and I've said that there's going to be abuse of bad legitimate relationships and it's going to happen. So what now? To change the Budget Law, after three years of eradicating the missing headships and installing them as municipal chiefs, mayors and mayors. But what about those who used this vacuum and did it that they didn't want to propose a budget? You can't sanction anyone, because it doesn't say they have to anywhere in the law. Every law, especially one that engulfs the fundamental rights of local self-government. When one law relys on another, third and fourth, we need to prepare ourselves more seriously and read, more seriously analyze that we do not miss in the future, failures that are not only missing theoretical nature but in real, political life have happened, and I fear that this will happen even if you do not intervene urgently in these provisions of the Budget Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4623	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4624	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. I will immediately in medias real HDSSB club will support, so this one part of the mini tax reform package on condition, because here someone said that the law will wait 20 days, 30 days until it reaches the procedure. So we will support it provided that the HDZ amendment to this law is accepted. So, while someone's fighting the Hitro Kraci, we're working and writing an amendment to this law. As you have heard, the Committee on Local Self-Government suggests this conclusion that the Croatian Parliament concludes by which the Croatian Parliament obliges the Government to go into real fiscal decentralisation not only through income tax, but also through other taxes such as real estate tax, profit tax and finally value added tax. And we understand that this overall 2012 budget relies on this series of amendments to tax laws, discharging the economy to self-charging the state budget. And just to remind you, it's in the state budget for 2012. A year's estimated deficit of 9.9 billion kuna. A new debt of 21 billion kuna, and alleged savings or cuts according to certain budget items, as the new budget is also a new policy. So there's no cutting, so I can't even talk about the $3.4 billion savings. In total, total taxes were cut 3 and a half billion kunas more than in 2011 and nearly 1.5 billion kunas of which the state intends to raise from VAT. The biggest normal puzzle of this budget was that of income tax which will be 25% higher, and we heard certain arguments that so many last year are charged income tax more, that it will be successfully charged when several hundred people lose their jobs daily in Croatia. We from Slavonia do not need a map of Croatia to be able to picture certain regions of Croatia because we come from a region where we used to come with a belly after bread, it came in the end line for a better life because Slavonia was once proud and straight and rich. There's a Vienna man who was known this way during the Homeland War "Slavonia Rich and Straight You'll never be Orthodox." But God is not Orthodox to me today, but today is an extremely poor Croatian region, a region that unfortunately leaves. Even those who have come to Slavonia in times of great economic crisis today go and behold wonders go and return to their hearths, those mountainous and mountainous areas, areas that once had no possibility of existence today, not unfortunately but fortunately live better than they lived in the times of those great world and economic crises. According to that logic, there was a long, far better life in Slavonia. However, I will return to these amendments and the additions of the Law on the financing of units of local self-government and from 100 kuna 55 kuna we will give to a city and municipality, 16, 17 kuna we will give to the county and increase that amount by a kuna and a half or a half kuna, while at the same time we will reduce to that proportion of settlements to the same cities, to the same municipalities, to those counties and to reduce those amounts to those decentralised functions. That's why I call it, this measure I call spilling from hollow to empty because it really is. So we play with 100 kunas in local and regional self-government units, we don't give anything, we don't increase anything, we just deploy those 100 kunas. And that's the only truth to be passed by these amendments to the law. On the other hand, income has been supported by measures to increase the non-taxable share of wages and pensions because we feel that they really need to increase because people don't live better after 4. The December line will live better after Easter because this is a crisis that has deep roots and will continue. But the assessment is somewhere that local self-government units are taking these measures around 260 to 270 million kuna and the ministry's assessment that with this 1 and a half percent and 0.5% respectively, according to local and regional self-government, 193 million 428 thousand 850 kuna will be returned. So it's missing 70, 80 million kunas that I can't make up for right now. And they're irretrievably lost to local self-government units. Of these 193 million kunas almost 82 million kunas, which is an estimate, so if income tax is achieved in accordance with the assessment of the Tax Administration of the City of Zagreb, which is a unit of local self-government and regional self-government, I have no objection, it will belong to the 82 million kuna. All other counties, all other municipalities, all other cities in the Republic of Croatia will have about the same amount. There will be the most profitable Lika-Senj County and it is indeed one relevant data, it will get so there will be an increase in that income total of all units of local self-government and Lika-Senj County 9524 kuna. Osijek-Baranja County, which is one of the largest and largest counties in Croatia including other Slavonian counties, will receive 8 million kuna and will lose about 35 million kuna somewhere. Virovitica-Podravska not only County but all units of local self-government will receive 1.4 million kuna, Požega-Slavonska 1.2, and even if all cities and municipalities give up in favour of Požeko-Slavonska County, it will not be able to get out of the disastrous situation in which the mayors there brought it and remain in charge even before bankruptcy. Ship-Posaviska will get 2.8 million kuna, and will lose almost 10 times more. Osijek-Baranja I said 8.6, Vukovar-Srijemska 2.02. And if it wasn't in the budget of that Vukovar fund along with all the Vukovars, with all the Slavs, the Baranjas and the western sremes, we could sit down, poster or laugh. These are the measures of the Croatian government, the current Croatian government. The former Croatian government also brought a significant increase in income tax, I think it was 3%. Well, since I have been mayor for many years, this has been reflected in the city of Djakovo in a way that the city has received a real income tax at that first moment of 1.2 million kuna, and since then Minister Šuker, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, has centralized the profit tax, I would like to say that the distribution of the income tax was not good because it was paid towards the headquarters of the company, the city of Djakovo lost 15 million kuna at that time. Well, thank you to the former minister, thank you to the current one. Such gifts really do not require units of local self-government. That we will deploy units of local self-government in the way of the poor Croatian government and that after that poverty, fiscal capacity will be completely against it. But in order not to be just an attack, since the opposition does not have to be opposition and beat only opposition we constructively suggest that this poor proposal amend and supplement the Law on the financing of local self-government we propose to this law and amendments. Amendments that do not mean abolishing local self-government, which do not mean abolishing and regional self-government because with such distribution you can wipe out the Lika-Senj County, you can, regardless of the fact that a number of apparatus are needed for the health of residents there, but you can simply wipe out a series of counties and a number of towns and most municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. We propose real, fundamental amendments to the financing of local self-government, and these are among other things that the total revenues are not only income from sales of real estate tax because many units of local self-government have sold buildings in this difficult time or entrusted buildings and buildings of those chieftains that Lesar still spoke of in the law, which are responsible for the budget even though they no longer exist and simply have no more opportunities or state, once again the Government of the Republic of Croatia, does not return what is theirs, such as that. An officer's home in Djakov, so the government gives away the House of Officers and says it should not be entered in the ownership list because the city of Đakovo is the owner of 1 through 1. But on the side of such a crazy decision, we propose fundamental changes and we propose fiscal decentralisation. Thank you for this increase and for the great gift, but decentralisation of the real change in the functioning of the units of local self-government because neither the mayors nor mayors nor mayors are in charge of collecting leaves and now snow like Kerum in Split but are in charge of much bigger things, from support to economy to not knowing what. This is why we propose that in the system of funding units of local self-government and these are amendments that are committed to entry and tax on profits, that the share of municipalities, i.e. the city in that tax be 25%, that the share of the county is 25%, the share of the state 50%. That income from value added tax when you have already increased it by 2% that 1% of that 2% goes to all units of local self-government and regional self-government in Croatia in a way, we are aware of the difficult situation in Croatia, in a way that 96% of this VAT remains in the state budget, but that 2% of VAT goes to local self-government units, 2% of the county, or regional self-government. And as far as real estate tax is concerned, it cannot significantly change the structure of income in local self-government units, but we are proposing a change. That one who drinks neither drinks nor pays any of that income. In this case, it's a state. We suggest that 60% go to the local self-government unit, 40% to the county. Only in this way, Mr. Minister, Croatia can come out of a deep and difficult crisis because the problem is not only solved in the ministries, the problem is solved in the smallest environments where people live and are still working happily. This is also included in the European Charter of Local Self-Government, and I am glad that today the association of cities which also criticises this law also appeared.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4625	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4626	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4627	Before I give my word to Mr Furio Radin, who is reporting for the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I say as chairman that you have given Mr. Agent Vinkovic a sentence that you should not have said in your presentation on this subject. And I ask you, since I am, and as for a religious community, I am asking you, since I am a supporter of not speaking out, because I have seen so far that some of the results have not yielded so much that in the future you stay away from it, because I will no longer have as chairman when I chair the understanding of your speeches as you had, so of course I will strictly follow your rules of procedure in Article 214, 215, and 216. So I'm asking you not to do it anymore. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Mr. Representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4628	Yes, Mr. President. Just what you said in articles like you said, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4629	No, I told Mr. Vinkovic he had no right to lift now.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4630	Such documents by demagogue Mr. Vinkovic who serve only to court one part of your electoral body must not be repeated in this House. They must not repeat themselves because you will find today or tomorrow a rhyme that will refer to Jews or other faiths. Well, then I guess we can go back to the infamous past about those problems. There are no colleagues of Orthodox faith here, so I say in their name it's a shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4631	You won't get Mr. Representative now Vinkovic's word because he's not hurt by the Rules of Procedure and you won't get the word. You've hurt him, I've explained that you're supposed to get a strict measure, I'm from her. No, you won't. Let's move on, Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker. Here's a word on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4632	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, on behalf of the HDZ Club, we really don't understand why this law is changing. For the simple reason that the dedicated revenues belonging to the unit of local self-government are transferred to general costs. Why? Because this position for aid for balancing decentralised functions has served to ensure that certain standards regarding primary and secondary education, health and social welfare are equal at the level of the entire Croatia, so there are those that are the unit of local self-government of the weaker, weaker fiscal capacity that do not cost children to have worse standards at school. And these primary school and high school standards, the government is making a consistent proposal from the restoring ministries. Therefore, these means of balancing decentralised functions have served to do so. And now you're proposing that these funds be reduced by 2%, so you're going to have to reduce the standard of primary and secondary school because simply by two percentage points because if you take a percentage, that's a reduction for some 13.14% of the funds you can't finance the same thing. So something like that's gonna have to happen. And that this will happen is the budget that was adopted which was actually proposed and will be voted on in two days in the Croatian Parliament where the reduction of funds for decentralised functions is proposed 363 million. So we propose to transfer these funds directly to cities and municipalities for general consumption. Therefore, they will finance everything else from these funds because they will continue to allocate part of the funds under the law, which is under the Law on primary education 3.1 and for secondary education 2.2% of income tax. So they'll still have to isolate it. And for that difference in standard, they're not gonna get the money from the state budget, they're gonna get that money for something else. The only way to say this is if the winners in this story are the local self-government units are smaller municipalities and smaller cities that have not transferred that decentralised function of financing the material costs of primary and secondary education, because it has larger cities, thirty major cities and counties, and the rest of them will get something more. And that's what I'm trying to say, and that's why we can't support such an amendment to the law. One more thing you referred to, however, is that you were mistranslated by colleagues on the Committee on Finance. So we did not propose to vary the proportion of income tax but we warned that due to these legal changes and procedures in the Income Tax Act, a certain unit of local self-government will be damaged, and certain units of local self-government will receive more money. So that's a fact we just can't get around. It must be mentioned here, and the government of the Republic of Croatia has proposed that the law find a model of how to solve it. So the fact is that by changing the non-taxable part from a thousand 800 to 2,000 200 and by reducing the taxation of this first part from 3 thousand 600 to 2 thousand 200 kuna, those of Croatia who have a lower salary will get something more, and those who have a salary above 8 and 800 thousand kuna will get less because they are affected by both the 25 and 40% rate, so they will pay a higher tax. And now that you look at the average salary paid per unit of local self-government, then you will see that exactly the unit of local self-government from mountainous and mountainous areas and from areas of special state concern most Croatian citizens who receive such small wages unfortunately come from such areas. And those who receive higher salaries which will be reduced due to increased taxation come from cities that are the most fiscally strong in Croatia than the city of Zagreb and beyond. So it's just one observation that in some future times when you're doing some kind of real procedure with regard to the funding of local self-government units, that's what's in mind. And it wouldn't be a good idea for us as Parliamentarians to keep it quiet if we didn't warn you about it. But what I would also like to say if we are talking about an investment swing if we are talking about an economy that will do construction permits to us if we are funds for the salaries of those officers who have been transferred to local self-government units and to whom are the powers to issue construction permits reduced from 47 to 12 million kuna? I can understand, Mr. Minister, that whoever made it because of those overtimes, this one, but they couldn't drastically reduce... And it's just that when you combine certain positions of the budget a little bit, then you'll see how many things are illogical. [[You don't understand.]] On the one hand we're talking about investment, removing barriers and one of the biggest barriers at this point, ask all entrepreneurs just as well as citizens, is getting a building permit. And we don't practically provide funds for these people. You also have a position at the Ministry of Finance, which some colleagues spoke about when they discussed the budget, assistance to local self-government units and the basis of certain criteria defined by the Law on the implementation of the state budget, so the units that are lower fiscal capacity and there are reduced funds by 60 million kuna. So I don't even see the HDZ Club's sense of passing this law, it's just so much to say we'd like to help units of local self-government, but given the increased number of unemployed, unfortunately, and the fewer salaries of the local self-government unit, which most of them are income tax practically over 50% of the income sources will go badly. And I think, Mr. Minister, this proposal about schooling is not good, or it's going to cut the standard in school because you can't finance the same standard with less money. I'd be glad to say that, and that's why the HDZ Club can't support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4633	Thank you very much. We have one correction to an incorrect quote. Mr. Representative Ivica Mandic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4634	Mr. President. A fellow Shuker made an incorrect statement saying that local self-government units would receive more with the introduction of this tax. He'll get less. You said in your statement that units of local self-government with the introduction of this tax and with the reduction of education that units of local self-government would get more, incorrect allegations. And with an increase of 1.5% of the local self-government unit will get less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4635	Now let's just make a deal. Mr. Matteljan on behalf of the SDP club says we'd be done with the clubs by five minutes and then we'll go to lunch and then we'll continue if you agree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4636	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. At first, I would like to stress first of all that the SDP club will certainly support the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government and, first of all, for two essential reasons. First, this Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government is actually part of the new tax policy of the Government, thereby part of the Republic of Croatia's 2012 budget, which is part of the overall austerity measures of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The second reason is that this law is adopted in response to compensation for that part of the funds that units of local self-government lose to changes and additions to the Income Tax Act, with a final proposal for a law which increases the personal deduction from 1800 to 220 kuna per month, thus effectively reducing income from income tax and revenue in the position of aiding balancing for decentralised functions. This proposal for income tax for local self-government units increases by 1.5% and 0.5% respectively, thereby increasing local self-government revenues by approximately 194 million kuna and thus actuating loss by increasing personal deduction. However, it should be noted that the reduction in the share of the local self-government unit in the distribution of income tax is not from a certain day. In mid-2010, the central state changed income tax rates, the most significant income of local self-government with 50% share in total income and tax relief without consulting... Therefore, even the City Association submitted a request to the Constitutional Court a year ago for the assessment of the constitutionality of changes in income tax by comparing the first half of 2010 and the first half of 2011 found that the basics for obtaining income from income tax were approximately the same, which means that income from income tax in the first half of 2011 should be approximately equal to income in 2010. [[You don't understand.]] However, due to the change in income tax rates from this base, 413 million kuna and 7.8%, respectively, have been reduced by the end of 2011. Thus, the local self-government deficit, which in 2009, amounted to 1.23 billion kuna, was reduced to 1.21 billion kuna in 2010 in the first 6 months of 2011, down to as much as 940 million kuna despite the state's decision to confiscate the 800 million kuna per year from local self-government. If the central state had not changed the rates of income tax or, by any chance, had found a way of compensating local self-government would have eliminated the deficit by the end of 2011, and in 2012, it could have acted pro-turestically, with 100 million euros in investments. This context does not reflect information that the central state has increased the deficit by 9 billion kuna in the first 9 months of 2011. Finally, I just want to say one more thing, which is that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is preparing a proposal for a full amendment to the Law on the financing of units of local self-government which will affect income tax and profit tax and property tax. With this fiscal decentralisation, of course decentralisation of responsibilities and powers will go, but a more thorough control of the spending of funds at local level, and all for the reason that citizens will be aware within a year and a half of the local elections, or to know what authority their local self-government has, or what weight their vote has at local level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4637	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister Slavko Linic and then we'll take a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4638	I thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. The draft law is not given to define the financed units of local self-government. The proposal for a law is neither given for the purpose of supporting and increasing the income of local self-government units. The proposal for a law is only to mitigate changes to the Income Act, which raises the non-taxable part, therefore only in part of the support to mitigate changes to that part. The funding system will be the topic of discussion at the moment when we are going to reform decentralisation and reform local self-government and new systems of funding units of local self-government, and we will likely discuss this during this year. When we talk about these two index points redistributions. The majority of small municipalities and cities do not have decentralised functions and they are directly assisted by 2% of the higher direct incomes. We're aware that part of them isn't enough, it's not enough, but it's a mitigation of everything that means low income from those units of local self-government, low wages, and I'd say more support to citizens who will get it because it's going to be a major part of the untaxed, so that means a little less ground for taxation. When we talk about decentralised functions then I want to make it clear that this 2% increase is a direct increase in some units of local self-government, that, in addition to that increase, they have slightly higher pay averages, so they will have a opposite effect, and that means higher incomes because the base increases for taxation, which means that their needs for decentralised functions will fall because they have higher incomes. Thus, all of this was cared for. And if we understand what the intention of the law is to mitigate and not solve all problems, that was the intention of direct assistance to small ones, and at the same time that redistribution to provide greater direct incomes with decentralised functions. And in that part, we didn't want to make any difference. We estimate that we will also succeed in fulfilling the obligation to the Fund of Harmonisation and Obligation in decentralisation functions, and that part of the local self-government will have and I would say the negative effects we do not doubt. And this law doesn't change that significantly. Some suggestions from the debate that we may see with some other measures what we will do with units of local self-government of smaller fiscal capacities is something that some of us will consider. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4639	Thank you very much. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. It's Mr. Representative Dinko Buric as the first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4640	Thank you, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. Well, I'd like to correct the fact that it's just an incorrect assumption that this should not be discussed under this bill. So the draft law amending the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government is exactly the place where we need to discuss changes to the way they have been financed so far. And that proposal that we have tabled in the debate and we are proposing amendments. Clearly, the government can and does not have to accept it is focused on allowing units of local self-government especially those that are poor such as Slavonia and Baranja, where these changes, where the increase of this non-taxable income will not have, will have negative effects on us. Because people have low wages, and it's 2% on decentralised assets that are now shrinking this redistribution will ultimately be more funds that we're going to lose from 17 and a half to 15 and a half than we're going to get with this 1 and a half increase for municipalities and half... We did math, you know, and then we saw that for Slavonia and Baranja unfavorably. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's why we suggested, let's let it stay, and we'll make up for the distribution of the long ones. Why shouldn't value added tax be common taxes and cities and municipalities and state. Since it's already increased to what we've suggested 96 two, here's what I'm really going to do, it would mean that the state is going to increase the VAT by 23 but not to 25. The state budget will go to 24, and one percent will receive the city and the county half. You understand? And that's the money together again. He will not leave Croatia, and this would strengthen the fiscal capacities of our municipalities, cities and counties. And that's the first step towards real fiscal decentralisation. Respecting your arguments, that's all I wanted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4641	Thank you. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic, correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4642	Well, I'd like to correct Mr. Secretary who said that some have proposed measures. These are not measures, these are real root changes precisely in this Law on the financing of local and regional and regional self-government. This is a step towards decentralisation of Croatia, a real redistribution of all tax revenues including income tax and VAT tax. And if you'll excuse me, Mr. President, I didn't intend to insult anyone on a religious or national basis. I mentioned only the verse of the Viennas, which was sung in the 1990s in Slavonia, pointing to a difficult situation in Slavonia. On the other hand, unlike the fake midwives, I appreciate and respect national minorities, and I'm not a national minority because I get paid here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4643	Thank you. I now declare a recess until 3:00. I'll see you. We're continuing the debate individually.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4644	Dear fellow MPs and esteemed fellow MPs, can we take the afternoon shift? We can. So we're going to discuss individual representatives. It is up to Commissioner Ingrid Antičević-Marinovic. She's gone. Unfortunately, he's losing his right to take part in this debate. The next representative is the respected Blazekovic Boris. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4645	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. This bill, as the club representatives have already spoken today, allocates certain funds to local self-government units, but as stated by this law, it is necessary to fully implement the government's plan, and it is also preparing for the overall change of various decentralisation laws. That is why this bill simply provokes a debate on the importance of local self-government, the importance of decentralisation of local self-government and the importance of even development. I'd just like to say a few words of my own. Local self-government is the policy closest to its citizens. Policies at the level of local self-government begin and concern citizens and citizens by getting out of the uncut environment of their own home. At that level and in most cases, and so it should be, politics is simply a service for its citizens who pay the same service through various charges, i.e. taxes. It is the right of citizens and citizens to expect and seek the highest level of service in all segments, and it is the duty of policy to provide them with the highest quality service in all segments of the divided hiking trails across a regulated environment, waste transportation, quality education, safety on the roads to entertainment and culture. It is local self-government policy that should create and impose standards of services that citizens and citizens consume, especially in the immediate environment. The way of this creation should be driven by recognition and understanding so as to collect and create the realisation of the needs of a citizen or of a citizen by policies at the lowest level should continue to be shaped and formed by looking for solutions at the highest level of politics, but by sticking to the firm principle of solving the problem at the lowest level in the principle of subsidiarity. Local policy is the main and practical part of the policy in direct contact with its citizens and citizens. And that's why decentralisation is so important. Croatia is a highly centralised state according to European criteria. This is particularly reflected in the redistribution of tax and total income. We in HNS believe that the quality of the service that the state is obliged to provide to its citizens can only be achieved by significant decentralisation of the powers of the funds, but also by decentralisation as we have called it decentralisation of knowledge. In particular, it could be devastating to transfer powers and resources in some local self-government, without guaranteeing that this local self-government is well-known and that it is properly educated to take over these powers and the proper use of decentralised funds. And therefore, it is armed with the necessary knowledge and necessary skills of local self-government, the most important investment in the process of decentralisation of Croatia. A decentralised state and policy at the level of its own street is the condition of increasing the quality of life of citizens, i.e. citizens, but also the necessary integral part of the development of society as a whole. HNS believes that Croatia must, if it wants to develop gradually and as soon as possible, be decentralisationd as I have indicated by powers and means. That the policy at local level has carried out its task it has a permanent obligation to provide more and more quality services and solutions from day to day, and only with knowledge and skills with full powers and clearly sufficient resources. Generally, the ultimate economic policy is the quality of life for citizens and citizens. And ultimately politics has no other purpose. The state is there to ensure for all its citizens and citizens freedom, security, happiness and therefore practical policy at local level and is so important. And that is why it is necessary for local self-government to be able to strongly move towards creation and realisation of raising the quality of life of its citizens and citizens. And this is possible only by turning around, it is possible by changing politics in Croatia from a highly centralised to a strongly decentralised state. Finally, I want to take this opportunity to say a few words about the importance of the even development of Croatia. We in HNS are convinced that human rights are universal and that each individual has the same right and must have equal chances of achieving their own personal desires,affinity, ambition. That is why we believe that the even development of all parts of Croatia is dried up and that it is absolutely all areas affected by politics at any level. From an equal right to equal quality of education through equal right to employment to equal right to clean water or air, from equal right to speed of information to equal rights to equal quality of transport, equal judicial protection, possibility of travel to any end of Croatia soon and the EU, to equal rights to the development of entrepreneurial skills, to equal competition, etc. Unfortunately, with the devastation of the total society over the last decades, Croatia has been a highly uneven state. Except for the war on it is guilty and local patriotic... politics of Croatian political powers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unconstitutional and unfair policy went directly against the rights of its citizens to an equal and equal endeavor of achievement, to seek to meet their personal ideals of happiness. With unbalanced development, this country has been unjust against its citizens for decades. Equal development is a condition of equality and protection of human rights. We in HNS are of the view that the realization of equality of development of all parts of Croatia can be realised through decentralisation, i.e. through laws that regulate the financing of local, or regional self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4646	Thank you very much. For a debate of 10 minutes, Honored Representative Milorad Batinić. Here you go, Vice President. We'll be waiting for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4647	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. . /. I will, of course, support this draft law amending the Law on the financing of units of local self-government with the Final Bill of Law because the intention is positive in terms of previous tax laws discharging our citizens as regards the tax base. And this is one kind of alignment with those incomes we've had so far. But I'll take the opportunity to say something as mayor of a small town. There's a lot of my fellow mayoral officer here. I would also like to point out some guidelines that are likely to come, and I hope I am convinced that there should be a full debate this year on the amendments to the Law on Local and Regional Self-Government. I used to speak on my city council on a way of income from the roles of the local community to take care of people and, above all, we are expected from both the city council and the executive authority to serve our citizens. I am doing this in the first and second terms and now I am doing the same, and they are also expecting an increase in income. The increase in these revenues will unfortunately not be possible and this could have occurred from a discussion by club members individually was the idea of how to redefine or increase the revenue side of the local community budget. I think that should primarily be seen integratedly because the budget of local and regional self-government is all a state budget. There are some 10.11% of total revenues at country level. This part of the exposure I would like to focus first and foremost on the Ministry of Regional Development in a way adopted by the Regional Development Act, which should primarily point to unbalanced development at the level of the Republic of Croatia and also point to measures and how to give all citizens in the Republic of Croatia the same chances, the same or approximately the same conditions for normal life. This part there was a dispute whether 2% was up, down, as much as for decentralised funds, etc. I say there will be more opportunities to speak in a more comprehensive debate on the full amendment of the Law on Local Self-Government and I do not consider this perhaps as of course it must be called a no-technically so-called amendment of the Finance Act. But first of all, I would like to express my satisfaction as mayor and as a citizen that the government came at all because it could have happened independently. And we've been witnesses for the past six, seven, eight years that our budgets have been shortened. Competitively, I can say that in my city in the last two, three years the budget has been lower in the original issues by about 25, 17%. So there was no alignment by the state to make up for that lack of income. I will, of course, support this bill on amendments to the law with the proposal, and I believe that a large majority of you will agree to be sent to this House to fully address the problem of the local community. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4648	Thank you very much, dear colleague. Next, a ten-minute debate was held by a respected representative, Mario Moharic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4649	Dear Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. These amendments to the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government show a tendency to fiscal decentralisation. We just had an incursion in the incomes of the local and regional self-government units by amending tax laws and about a year and a half ago, when it was also about amending tax laws, however, unlike today's government there was nothing taken to compensate for the loss for the budgets of local self-government units. The government therefore has a tendency to fiscal decentralisation and, among other things, Minister Linic himself noted in today's explanation of this law that the government is also working on further changes in tax laws and the introduction of property taxes that will significantly contribute to the budgets of local self-government units. This is all on the trail and on our promise of plan 21 when we noted that it is unsustainable today that local units only participate with 10% of the total tax revenue and tends to as I pointed out about this plan and our pre-election promise to increase that share to 15.20%. And because of that, I think this law should be supported, I think it will be supported by a large majority because it is in the interest of almost all units of local administration and self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4650	Thank you very much. The following has been registered for discussion by the honourable representative Željko Kolar. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4651	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. This Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government I view only as an attempt by the Government to spread the burden of the crisis equally to all segments of society. My colleague Moharić mentioned 1.7.2010 earlier when we changed the rates of income tax that we, the mayors, called as the black day of local self-government, we lost about 500 million kuna of original income at the time. And as counterpart Batinic said, there really is a unit of local self-government that has lost more than 20% of the original incomes and there were no measures by the government to try to compensate. Some colleagues have rightly tried to discuss this Proposal for a Law amending the Finance Act on future establishment of local and regional self-government and the future way of financing. The Republic of Croatia is indeed a centralised state according to data only Greece and Spain have a more centralised tax system than the Republic of Croatia, and since we know what problems Greece is in, and so is Spain, then it is very clear that we have to work. This is where regional development was mentioned. I am personally convinced that there is no regional development without decentralisation, it is simply impossible because without it we will never be all in the same positions that we are developing the same, and the question is how will those regions and those regions that are now underdeveloped, which way and which model will we find that they at least approach those regions that are developed. I am convinced that already next year we will be in the budget of the Republic of Croatia and in the laws that will follow in this House that it will be clearly seen that Croatia is going towards decentralisation. The goal must be to make at least 20% available to local and regional self-government units. Of course, it can't be achieved in a year or two, but if we increased the original income of local self-government units by at least 2% each year, I don't think there would be any mayor or mayor who wouldn't accept it. One more thing is very important, we must and in future draft laws simply have to define the powers of the unit of local self-government, give them financial resources, trust in mayors and mayors who gave their name and name, which are directly from the citizens chosen, but also should be sought at these levels great responsibility for the funds and commitments they have made. Therefore, I will, of course, support this bill by looking at the fact that this compensation is actually part of the income that units of local self-government will lose, and the fact that the minister in the opening speech said that those units of local self-government that are central governments of the county and those that have obligations towards schools may also be cut off, but that a cluster of smaller units of local self-government that are objectively at a smaller stage of development than these other units will benefit from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4652	Thank you very much, Agent Kolar. Next for a word of 10 minutes, the respected representative Franjo Lucic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4653	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you all together. Dear Minister. A few words about this law, I have listened carefully to the past debate in these past days, so when we have passed these tax laws, but I really want to comment on this debate in one way that is true and that will be shown essentially in all our units of local self-government good or not good. First of all, I would refer to the units of local self-government that I come from, so I'm talking about smaller units of local self-government, and you've just spoken to the ministers today that by passing this law, the less units of local self-government will bear a greater burden and where there will certainly be significantly less income than it will be in major cities and municipalities or units of local self-government. Of course, by considering this law, I have indeed tried to study from one average personal income or rather personal income that is quoted or realised in units of local self-government, thus up to 5000 kuna. It is evident that these are the units of local self-government in Slavonia, and here today, of course, there are others here county, and here it is already said today and I was checking that my Požega-Slavon County really belongs to those counties that have per capita one of the smallest incomes in the Republic of Croatia. And so I'm really worried because my municipality or rather the town of Pleternica will suffer really damage by this law but here, I see that the minister disagrees, but once we start to realize this and during a certain time we will meet and make sure that this calculation is correct and that these units of local self-government that have such incomes will be extremely and municipalities and cities that will be affected by just passing this law. We local self-government leaders and in particular the representative in the Croatian Parliament want in any way to contribute to the development of our local self-government in any form, and in this way we are in a position to reduce small incomes in local self-government units because we are also aware of the situation in which the economy is located. And that is why we are decimated by the closure of certain companies and simply companies that no longer carry out their task by the mass of those people who have finished at the employment office do everything to maintain local self-government. Often in this debate and this Parliament, we have heard that there is a need to reduce the number of local self-governments, regional self-governments, but I think we will do so in the best possible way if we continue to pursue a policy of reducing those funds, especially income tax, and that we will quickly come into the situation that certain local self-governments will not be able to function for this reason. My unit of local self-government and the town of Pleternica can function without the need and support of the Government of the Republic of Croatia's budget. We are not in those municipalities and cities that need support from the budget of the Republic of Croatia, but I am afraid that this way we will get into a situation very quickly that we will not be able to function. We are one of the cities that has an extremely small budget, but annually invests more than 50 million kunas from funds, ministries, pre-accession European Union funds, from public companies, and all of these are grants and we have not raised a kuna of credit. And we are really this way of developing local self-government as we have in recent years where we have just been provided with funds from all these ministries, funds and one of the smaller municipalities that has very much used funds in pre-accession funds. Of course we expect and are bound by the economy that we expect the structural funds that come to us in 2013 but I am simply afraid that this way with this approach of the particular republic, the Croatian government towards small units of local self-government will lead to self-destruction and that we will be forced to come into a position that we will not be able to function. And then tomorrow we'll be told, you know you don't have enough resources to be self-sustainable. Because this way if your government called you she's one way or another taking your original assets, and our original assets are exactly 60% to 70% income tax. We will not, Mr. Minister, be able to conduct a policy of local self-government, let alone plan any development on infrastructure or any other activity. Here, through this calculation of personal income of 4000 kuna, we have really dismembered every single item and when there was a question of 1800 kuna where the share of the city was 505 and now that we have 2200 kuna where the share of the city was 56 and a half percent. So, at the income of 4400 kuna are really big tax differences, so this 12% that went directly to the city itself. You said today that just through this alignment where the government really wants and I congratulate first of all on every law that brings prosperity to the economy but not at all cost to be taken away from someone. First of all, I think you were supposed to approach as a government once restructuring who? State-owned companies where there is a huge difference, where huge funds can be saved, but not that you go first and foremost to a local self-government that is already poor, which is working this way as I said. And the restructuring of large state-owned enterprises there are huge reserves and so surely you have to apply the law that you are about to pass and that this law will certainly bring prosperity. In this way we will achieve nothing, we will destroy local self-government and I am telling you that this model of access to local self-government, any ministry, any fund, pre-accession funds, tomorrow these other Structural Funds, the cohesion funds gives us a guarantee and the future that the local self-government unit is developing, that we are building factories in the local self-government unit, to create new jobs. It's the future and it's certainly a guarantee that every unit of local self-government will succeed. That's why, Mr. Minister, we ask you, and here we have heard from both your side and your speakers from the CNS, it's not them, of course, and I can't say that they are against this law. But in their dictionary and their rhetoric, there's a need to change what we're talking about today, that this is not a good law. But of course they can't talk about it publicly. And here I come from another party, coming from the Croatian Democratic Community, and I am just suggesting you do well to make sure that units of local self-government are not impoverished, that they are not devastated by their own government, by their own taxes. Let us try what you need and how much resources you need to find in restructuring public, state-owned companies where there are huge, huge differences. This is what I am saying, indeed, well-intentioned, not reducing the importance of passing any law, and I am truly in favour of passing laws, and above all, who will be in the development of the economy. So I ask that you consider this and that surely, in a very short period of time, you correct this Law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4654	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There's a correction to your exposure. Dear Representative Zeljko Kolar. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4655	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague put out an incorrect quote, which is that we mayors, the mayors on this side, can't speak freely. We can speak freely. We've never been defended by anyone, and clearly and loudly told by all the colleagues that we're mayors and mayors of what we think of this law. So, we consider it a measure to correct what in the ultimate line that you've ruined. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4656	Thank you very much. First one notice. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament expired at 15.22 minutes for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. And now I give my word to Mr. Finance Minister Slavko Linic to address on behalf of the promoter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4657	... And given the debate that has been made, the last one might be the impression that this is a law that reduces the incomes of local self-government units. [[The speaker was subsequently activated.]] That's not true. It is essential that the Income Tax Act has increased the untaxable parts that we have provided people with a slightly higher salary and to the burden of local self-government units. It is a law that has passed, which has been considered and which has been in the interest of making it easier for citizens with greater social sensitivity to experience in times of crisis. The government estimated it would be wrong if the burden was fully carried by local self-government units. And this is part of the support to local self-government and regional units in that part. With this law, we increase direct taxes belonging to units of local self-government and cities, municipalities and counties, so the previous direct tax which was 55% now increases to 56 and a half percent. So these are the original incomes and cities and municipalities, and we also increase our county taxes from 15 and a half to 16%. The monetary estimates suggest that these cities and municipalities increase the amount of 145 million, and the counties over 48... So it's a law that makes higher incomes to local and regional self-government units. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] What I also pointed out on behalf of the Government is that in smaller municipalities with very low averages, the impact of the Income Tax Act will have a greater negative effect on some smaller municipalities, which means that this is not enough for these smaller municipalities or municipalities with smaller average salaries to compensate for and compensate for damages. And in that part, they'll have fewer incomes. Therefore, not enough to compensate. Looking at the good part of what we have highlighted is the calculation of most cities and municipalities will be covered by these redistributions, and there will also be enough funds for the account of alignment and for the financing of common needs. These are about the characteristics of this law, so I felt that it was necessary to point out that it would not turn out that we are reducing direct taxes with this law. No, we're increasing them, but unfortunately in some municipalities that really have a low wage structure not enough. And the debates that were in this House very clearly show that it is important to change something during the year related to the Finance Act because obviously this law with common taxes is insufficiently qualityd, does not meet the needs, especially the need for stronger development and decision-making at local level. And it's a serious topic that will probably be the subject of special laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4658	Thank you very much, Minister. The desire to correct the incorrect allegations was reported by the respected representative Boris Josip.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4659	Dear Vice President, honourable ministers and fellow MPs. I am correcting the incorrect allegations in the part where the Honorable Minister said that this law increases the income of local self-government units on any basis, meaning any other law, we are counting on the PPDS, in areas of special state concern, mountain-mounted and island. The fact is, the law speaks differently. So the direct part you gave the islands, say, from 55 to 56.5%, you took them on that special part you had on special accounts at the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. So, you took them in one part, which was their income, and you said now charge it directly to the budget. They didn't get anything with it, but they still lose on raising that base from 1800 to 2200 kuna. There are no changes in the PPDS and mountain-mounted areas. So they're left to lose by law the difference created by the new base from 1800 to 2200 kuna. It's the only real truth. That's what this law says. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4660	Thank you very much. The following has been registered for discussion by the respected representative Dragutin Glava. Your Honor, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4661	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The adoption of a tax-law package, in particular the Income Tax Act, which includes an increase in the personal deduction from € 1800 to €2200, is engulfed in the budgets of units of local and regional self-government, as there is a reduction in tax revenues that are used to finance, I will say social upgrades or the social standard of citizens. This includes co-financing of mangers, kindergartens, sports, culture, education, health care, social care, associations, functioning of administrations and self-government, parts of employees' salaries and a lot more so that I don't list everything. And if there's anything left, it's focused on development. For the reason of this reduction, this Law amending the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government, which contains a proposal for a new distribution of income tax which should be aimed at making amends, mitigates, amortises or whatever we want to call this reduction. But that law won't do that for everyone. In fact, he might want to go to those where the pay averages are at the state average. I believe something might be bigger with those units of local and regional self-government whose salary is higher than the average of the state, but one thing is certain to bring down income from income tax in those whose average is less than the average of the state. As a result, this law will not bring about equivalent effects for all concerned. Unfortunately, under quotes "damaged" will be those where the industry with smaller salaries is located, so-called "damaged". the real sector, especially those where a large part of the workers are still employed in the textile, leather and wood industry and the average wage is significantly lower. However, the large cities of Zagreb, Rijeka, Split, county centres, cities where they are stationed and there are certain strong companies, public enterprises, state, county institutions and services, health, judicial, higher education, financial, import and service institutions, companies and activities, various representations and other well-paid jobs and strong budget consumers will get more. Therefore, their children's kindergarten prices for parents will be lower and their citizens' standards in any way will be better and higher. In particular, the proposed law will be affected and damaged by the northwest, so that the damaged be conditional, northwestern and most Slavonian counties. I therefore propose that the ministry try to make accurate calculations and impact of laws on cities, municipalities and counties and, through the quick adoption of a new Law on the financing of local self-government, correct this illogicality. The best and best quality would be to suggest that the distribution and execution of the system of headtains or a combination of the part of the principal and part of the percentage shares in the distribution of tax revenues. But I believe we'll get to that someday. I also know that we must all contribute to the resolution of this economic crisis, so local self-government must be involved. And this budget goes in that direction, but we can't at times when we have to be solid about it being some in an unequal position. If there is something to sacrifice, then let us do it according to the strength and possibilities of those to whom it applies. I accept the adoption of this law in this form with indications and messages that there will be decentralisation of the funds for the operation and functioning of the units of local and regional self-government that have been heard here and even that has been spoken of by the minister himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4662	Thank you very much. For the next 10 minutes, there is an esteemed representative, Damir Rilje, to discuss. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4663	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers, colleagues and colleagues. There's a lot that's been heard here, so here's the thing about local self-government, then in any case, as well as some others here and all of us expensive because the local self-government part and all of the local self-government are forming this state. In truth, it's easy to talk about the distribution when there's money, when there's money. But of course we always go back to the economic growth deficit and share what is not there. Of course, then we must resort to procedures that actually point us towards what is possible. In this sense they were not all in the opportunity here a fellow mentioned earlier, fellow representative, using the funds of public enterprises to finance in their fields. Not everyone could benefit from that, and on the other hand, the European funds are. On the other hand, the proposal for this law that would reduce income tax revenue, and this is how a hole is created, therefore, compensated by part of the means of balancing from decentralised functions, is not sure whether it will fully cover or not the resources or the hole that will result in that. But actually you know what, we talk all the time about the restructuring, I think it will. Because someone here mentioned that they were going to lose school. And don't you think we're expected to be restructured by all the system companies and so on by education? I wouldn't dare say everything's okay there. And there's no room for savings. All the time we've been saying we need savings, and we're kind of out of savings. It is necessary to support this law because the Government of the Republic of Croatia wants to reduce the budget consolidation of the budget through the tax law system but, of course, with the necessary implementation of fiscal and functional decentralisation in favour of local self-government units. Of course it can't go overnight, of course we all have to contribute together to this weight or the weight of the deficit. It is also very encouraging that decentralisation, as we have heard here, is not said on the street publicly, is actually one of the intentions that have been officially expressed and which in some ways encourage, as colleagues have already said, towards decentralisation of everything that means the different functioning of local self-government units on the market. After all, watch the unit of local self-government the truth operates under different laws. Budget law, the Law on Communals, some other laws, but the fact is that it's basically a company and it has to function positively, you know. It has to in some way and therefore gets decentralised resources to provide some other and other conditions. That's true. I'd like to mention a few things here that seemed interesting. Current income from income tax shows a trend in decline. So it's a fall from the economy or from economic growth. A fall from wages, a fall from what is realised as income tax. So they also belong to the unit of local self-government, which reflects poor economic activity or economic crisis. On the other hand, the division of units of local self-government according to the relevant criteria and fiscal capacity, as the minister said earlier, is a set to look into the need to implement the root decentralisation of local self-government units. That's how it works out there, you know. A unit of local self-government that can be financed unless it does so voluntarily. So in some countries, I think in most countries, what sort of thing. There are fixed losses and guaranteed debts and other burdens which, as budgetary or off-balance sheet, have been found by individual units of local self-government, and must all be paid out of the budget or go into an account in a blockade because they are as such and found and they are very specific and they are accounted for by the relevant authorities are actually responsible for it by the relevant authorities of this country, such as... As regards the above, there is also a question of fiscal responsibilities which has also been regulated by law and which I am not going to talk about now. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But closely related to this law must be observed for periods of commitment if there is a disturbance in the budget. Of course, in a situation where the compensation procedures in which some of the budgets are damaged and where the return of funds is difficult to expect, in particular in some fast-term sense, it is even difficult to talk about the functioning of individual budgets, especially those that could not function in other ways than from their own budget. I show my support for the absolute as well as my club, the SDP club, by harmonising all laws that process the same matter, so who and the one relating to the local self-government unit I support and these amendments that have been made in this proposal. Finally, they are all derived from the Law on Units of Local and Regional Self-Government. It's about those misunderstandings where it's written down who does what, who suggests it. I mean, at the end of the unit of local and regional (regional) self-government are regulated by the law where you say what the mayor is doing, so here's the deal. I agree that they need to be harmonised, but they're all known. After all, that's how it works so far. Here, with the support of this law, we just need to move on to decentralisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4664	Thank you very much. The following is reported for the debate of 10 minutes by the respected representative Ivica Mandic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4665	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Since most colleagues have mentioned a lot of things, I won't say it again. Some things I'll just point out what the minister on several occasions gave the hints. I fully support a set of laws that regulate redistribution from income tax as well as co-financing of local self-government units. What this law states is that for certain units of local self-government, this law will have a negative effect. And what I would like to stress, is that certainly the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the coalition that won the election on Plan 21, where exactly we said that we would go through a system of laws in which we would decentralise as much of the funds as possible. I think this is just the first good step on how we're going to do it. And I'd just like to touch one part of the income tax funding, these are decentralised functions. This is where primary and secondary education, social education, homes for older and powerless and public fire departments fall. What I would like to say is that the majority of local self-government units responsible for their budget and financing needs have been brought into an unequal position with such an existing law, which I will support with the information that currently in the Republic of Croatia there are 65 public fire departments, that some new public fire stations are on the way, let's say the highly decorated state of Austria has 8 fire units. This is what I'm saying with the intention that fire departments are founded not only on the need to be founded by the other one. That is why with the distribution of local self-government units that have otherwise organized and solved by firefighters are in an unfavourable position. I therefore appeal that at the most recent time in the system of funding units of local self-government we must touch these things and try to regulate it in a fair way, and also with social laws, not to bring ourselves into an unequal position of homes for old and powerless, that a part of it co-finances and helps the country where the founder of the county is, and that the day part of the old institutions are in pure market functioning. I also believe that it is the responsibility and obligation of every righteous government to make sure of that, because it is a particular home for older and powerless people from the city I come from that is about 400 waiting in line. I think there's a lot of pressure and it's a real measure of social sensitivity. I also think that with the Law on the financing of local self-government units, we must certainly take care of even development. So even development because with this way, it's my deep feeling and belief that certain units of local self-government will always remain at that level. I fully support these proposed amendments to the Law on the Financing of Local Self-Government Units, but I would certainly like to have these things that I've just mentioned here to think about and not to bring units of local self-government that have rationally used their budgets in a more unfavourable situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4666	Thank you very much. The next speaker on this subject is the esteemed representative of Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4667	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister. Here I will try to be realistic when I'm discussing this law for the reason that I know how well the funding of units of local self-government or I knew better, and on the other hand, I know how the state budget works and what are the problems facing the state budget. So what my colleague Rilje said is quite right, when there is then it's easy to share, and when there is no then it's a problem. We are now in a situation where there is no, and everyone needs to be "no and everyone needs to be satisfied and close the state budget on the one hand, and on the other hand we should also think about local self-government units. In all European countries, developed democracy always exists, I will not say fight, but in some ways, the weighting of the resources to local self-government units, and how much of the country, or what the relationship will be, and that is the problem of all finance ministers in Europe. Here's a good thing what the current current finance minister was and the mayor knows this problem well, so I'm convinced that the current finance minister was not the mayor, either, would not have this Bill on the financing of local self-government units that we have today, along with all of his shortcomings and shortcomings that he spoke of on behalf of the club and colleagues Schuker, and here are the MPs before me. It is said that the units of local self-government are easy to do with the paper of every democracy, I agree with it, and not only is it easy with paper but the units of local self-government, that many local mayors and mayors here know this, the mayor has no clear and can't be elected parliamentary representatives, that these are functions that are of great interest to citizens and that citizens as units of local self-government function and assess a lot of things. This bill will increase the original income from 55% to 56.5%, or said before the minister of around 145 million kuna for towns and municipalities and around 40 million kuna for counties. And as it says here, it's a total of 193.4 million kuna. And now I don't know exactly how much by amending the Income Tax Act as much as the reduced income units of local self-government but there were speeches somewhere around 240, 250 million, I don't know if it's that much but if it's so much then I think maybe that percentage should have been increased by so much to cover that income deficit that units of local self-government would have in that part. But obviously, and we heard that the burden under the supposed signs of that increase in the untaxable part, which I think is good at 1800 to 2200 kuna, that part is borne by the state, and part by the local self-government unit. So this burden will not only be on the burden of the state budget but also on the burden of units of local self-government as we have heard here. The economic crisis has had an absolute impact on the incomes of local self-government units, regardless of where they were and wherever they were. It is somewhat easier for local self-government units, which are in those parts of the country that have rich tourism and good tourism, but more or less these revenues have mostly fallen since the crisis started and up to 30% say mayors and mayors. And up to 30% of their incomes are lower than they were before, and income from income tax is the largest, largest income units of local self-government. Okay, the income from the communal fee is more or less constant. But let's just say the income from the communal contribution fell terribly, because they are, there are no investments. As long as there is no investment or much less, there is not enough income from municipal contribution, tax revenues, etc. etc. the local self-government units have fallen today in one difficult position, and on the other hand they have not been relieved. I don't think it should be, because if we're talking about decentralisation, then they need to be given even more concern and even greater authority for those basic concerns, for the basic care they bring about the citizens. So there is one disproportionate to the obligations of local self-government units. I mean the county and the cities, the municipalities. On the other hand, their incomes have fallen in view of the economic crisis. And in all this, it's not easy, it's not easy. I repeat what I said at the beginning taken somewhere where it also needs and is missing and then put there again where it should and where it is missing. So I don't envy those who work on it and who have to work on it. But I think that in the future we're going to have to have that share of tax revenues that local self-government units have now here, I don't know how much it seems to me about 10% if we really want to, and there's been a lot of talk about decentralisation here, and the more power we give to that authority that's closest to the citizens, let's just call them that, and that's cities and municipalities. Perhaps, Mr Minister, in all this together, it would not be a bad thing, but in the budget you have provided for the European Investment Bank's loan. I think that, I think, I think 48 million kuna and 30 million kuna in the position of Minister of Regional Development, Ministry of Regional Development and 19 or 18 for the Ministry of Transport. If there had been other domestic components 10, 20 million European Investment Bank would have given so much more, and these are projects that will then be implemented by local self-government units, which would have helped a little bit in any case when it comes to local self-government units because it is a 50m-euro loan. Half is given by the EIB and half is a domestic component. And another such EIB loan approved by the European Investment Bank is also for the development of infrastructure and social and municipal but also for the rest of Croatia. So it may have been possible to add a few more domestic components this year could have solved many of these projects throughout Croatia, throughout local self-government units. I would not reject that proposal that my colleague Vinkovic spoke of when he presented it on behalf of the HDSSB. So they suggest that this value added tax is increased to 25% to 1%, so the state takes 24%, 1% to divide into cities, municipalities, counties. I don't think that's bad and that wouldn't be bad. But I still don't believe the government will accept it because then it's clearly less revenue to the state budget. But in any case, I think that we should still think about how to help local self-government units, how to go towards further decentralisation, and there is no decentralisation without income to monitor these functions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4668	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. It's all right. The next word came from Honorable Representative Zvonko Milas.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4669	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues so here is how I am not a financial expert and yesterday I did not have the opportunity to discuss the budget of the Republic of Croatia I would like to refer the draft law amending the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government to the budget and the already adopted tax change package. Definitely, the proposal for this Law will not have a positive impact on the resolution of all the negative implications resulting from the proposed budget and the adoption of tax changes. Namely, the package of tax changes adopted and the expected cuts on the expenditure side of the budget will have a very negative impact on citizens' standards primarily of the poorest regions. So, I'm talking about Slavonia and Baranja and West Sreme, and they're going to be good for the rich. The increase in VAT revenues by more than 2.6 billion kuna will definitely reflect on the poorest and socially most vulnerable layer. They're unemployed, retired, and all those who live hard today. And according to the available data and all research just now in the region of Slavonia and Baranja, and West Sreme, due to the inherited need for the resolution of war casualties, and also because of slightly slower economic development, the most exposed impact on the standard of their citizens. Furthermore, the reduction of incentives in agriculture which were, in part, a category of subsidies. But let's face it, part of it, and social transfers won't be able to compensate for this distribution according to the bill. Therefore, this Law and the adopted tax change package will further impoverish local administration units. And when we talk about decentralisation, however, they will be even stronger dependent on market centres of power without the ability to create and improve the standards of their citizens. I can't help but mention how a 10% VAT introduction package is offered on tourism for next year. So we're talking about direct subsidies to tourism which is good. However, I don't know if we forget to subsidise the consumption of foreigners coming to Croatia, whose standard is certainly 5 times the standard of Croatian man. And the question arises who is subsidizing? So it is the Croatian Slavonian poverty through the increase in VAT, the reduction of subsidies, and the new Law on financing of the local state does not contribute to compensation, however. Isn't that absurd? This should be added to the fact that from next year, the zero VAT rate will be abolished to basic foods, which will be further affected by the poorest layers. So the unbalanced distribution provided for by this law and moreover will hit the fragile economy of the poorest regions. My intention was to focus your attention on a number of negative effects in the conduct of regional policy through the draft budget, the adopted tax change law as well as through the amendment of the Law on the financing of units of local administration and such a policy is contrary to the basic postulates of cohesion policy, which constitutes the content of the EU's joint action. In this policy, we are moving away from what is the basis of the EU's common commitment, which is a uniform regional development which is also a pillar of EU conservation and together with agricultural policy account for 80% of the EU's development content. Finally, neither this law nor those others mentioned earlier can bring about any improvement in our regions that today have a very difficult and complex economic situation. However, all of this can lead to the economic collapse of a whole region, I am talking about Slavonia and Baranja. And such behaviour without looking at all the negative effects, without compensatory measures and without the coordination of fiscal, regional and social policy is nothing more than strengthening serious social tensions in the region. In addition, I must say that it is unclear that ministers from other resolutions, particularly regional and social policy, did not recognise the need to mitigate such a policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4670	Thank you very much. On your presentation we have one replica, respected representative Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4671	... Well, here's my colleague, Miles, you've said well that this, I've tried to record, this proposal will expand and lead to economic breakdown and injustice towards the most economically endangered cities and municipalities, and it'll be good for the rich. [[The speaker is not enabled, it is not understood.]] Indeed, those cities that are now under collapse, namely the budgets of these cities, will not profit much with this increase in income tax. Here's why. I come from a city that used to be a very industrial center, a city that is at this point, whose budget is really collapsed because only one big firm, CMC, stops working. 1,000 workers are out of work. That's 1,000 incomes less. He will not truly benefit from such a proposal. The more we got the proposal here, the more I talked about when we discussed the budget to cut funds for decentralised functions. What does that mean? This means if you want to maintain at least an existing standard in primary and secondary schools, if you want to maintain a standard in health institutions in your local environment, if you want to keep the standard of fire to call it that, you will have to come from what you get 1.5% in cities, or 0.5% in the county to grab into that part of the cake. So, you'll have less resources, you won't be able to maintain the standard. We will now see when the Government makes a decision on the financing of minimum financial standards in primary and secondary schools which will eventually be reduced or at least which funding under certain rights will be reduced and then we will see what this law will ultimately bring. I'm afraid that those who are really on their knees, where every day those cities and municipalities, a large part of their employees, are left without a job, that at least they will get it, and that they will put the standard at risk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4672	Thank you very much. For a word of 10 minutes, the esteemed representative of Denes Shaw. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4673	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, esteemed ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I would like to take part in this debate and express my few findings. First of all, in the introduction, I would say that this formulation is very nice, however, when the municipality is said at the time, and given the content of the work of employees in the municipality, I often think that it would be better to call it the Management of a municipal firm because, in practice, 80 to 90% of the activities in the local self-government, and in the urban environments, it is precisely about solving the municipal problems and improving the living conditions of the inhabitants of the municipality, or the local community. It is certainly one of the main tasks of the municipality's leadership to say that everything is done and taken to make use of the population in a given area and to enjoy the particular benefits of these natural resources that the area has at its disposal. I think the results of the work are also measured through how successful that municipality is. First of all, I think of the resources that you know very well about our warm, clear, beautiful sea, oil site, warm water, quality water, our forests, quality wood etc., etc. And finally our fertile ornaments when it comes especially to eastern Croatia, Srijem, and especially Baranja. For this reason, I only want to look back with two words, I was a little encouraged when Mr. Minister explained that we need to base our local self-government incomes more from a source of property. This is very important and very important to us, but I think that from the state level there is still more to be done in order for this local self-government to have a little more quality and content impact on how these natural resources are used. It's crucial and very important to me. To go back a little bit to this problem because I have to talk about orans, what's for the Makarska Sea is for the White Manastir and for the Baranja Oranica I just like to make fun of and say they don't have to plow, but we have to plow if there's nothing else. As far as we're concerned we have certain I wouldn't say an objection, but I have to conclude that out of maybe 40 thousand total orange surfaces, which is a very large area and a large natural treasure 40th percent is owned by the Republic of Croatia. And this is a concession, or long-term lease given to use in this case "Belja" in the system "Agrokora". And these contracts were concluded 12, 13 and more years ago and the amount of that lease or that fee is today almost one third of the market price of the renting of those areas. So when we look at it roughly then there are total incomes somewhere between 7 and 7,5 million, of which we share half the state half of the municipalities, 9 Baranja municipalities and the city of Beli Manastir, then it really comes down to symbolism, and we know what that value is. Therefore, it is possible that this should be done, although I must stress and praise this occasion, and thank Belja, who shows in a certain way a very great understanding of the municipalities, especially of the municipality where I am chief, in solving burning municipal and other problems. We do have a certain understanding. But it would be painless if we had it as original income. As regards the content of this law, I would not, no matter what my municipality's budget will feel; especially now, I have to say about the forest contribution that belongs to the municipal budget. However, looking at this in a broader context, I support it if it fits in total and it will be good for the state budget and for the Republic of Croatia as a whole. However, I would ask Mr. Minister to try a little and cost-effectiveness with all the users of the funds, i.e. with all the local self-government to analyze a little bit. Because it's not always about income because often the problems are located right on the bulky side that needs to be covered up to a certain level. That is why there is also the Law on hilly areas, the Law on Islands and certain interventions and the Law on areas of special state care, it certainly works. However, there are some specific specificities within the local communities, especially when it comes to the Baranja municipalities and the border, those who have become borderline backwards for 20 years where they have been interrupted – specifically in our view of Vojvodina – certain economic cooperation and certainly that population feels economically. Furthermore, certain local self-governments also have a number of specificities that are heterogeneous to say in terms of nationality and religious commitment and other specificities, and we have, I will also point out this example, let's say a homogeneous municipality and one of my neighbors where the homogeneous population is 4 villages, 4 sacral objects, 4 cemeteries; while in my area of 6 villages, 17 sacral objects and 17 cemeteries in different locations and often has to be financed – I know how to emphasize it – is it objectively so not bilingually functioning of that local self-government, but trilingually. And that's the extra cost. Therefore, a number of other criteria should be taken into account as to how to carry out expenditure within the municipality and to provide certain support resources to make it work painlessly. And of course, and what I've pointed out at the outset is that it's very important to ensure a certain municipal standard. I don't want to bother you right now to present data on the municipal standard in certain averages in the Osijek-Baranja County within Baranja area, but enough just to say that out of the total population of 30 and several villages, 50% have not yet solved quality water supply, but are drinking from surface wells. Just one piece of information, I don't want to bother you any further about it. So I support it absolutely. However, I would like to ask this all that I have pointed out, especially this problem of using these resources, to add one more sentence also to the forest contribution and to the rich forest, one banal example. Perhaps with a value of 2 or 3 deer antlers, a golden qualification could build me a little kindergarten? But how? We can't get to that. And that's our natural treasure that's out there in Tikvesh in those woods. And what my people can have of it, except to go into the woods and collect some of that wood, etc. Therefore, I appeal to see the cost side of these individual budgets and so far it has been practically resolved thanks to a certain understanding of Croatian forests, Croatian roads and other institutions of large systems that have shown understanding. I sincerely hope that understanding will continue because it is also highlighted about Slavonia and Baranja. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4674	Thank you very much. For the next 10 minutes, a respected representative, Dinko Bosnjak, applied. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4675	Honorable Vice President of the Assembly, Mr. Minister, fellow MPs. Only the adoption of the draft law on the financing of units of local and regional (area) self-government with the Final Proposal for an emergency procedure is quite hasty and insufficiently prepared. In this proposal, the law seeks to mitigate the budget damages to local units resulting from an increase in personal deduction from 1800 kuna to 2200 kuna per month, pensioners from 3200 kuna to 3400 kuna per month; which will affect budget cuts to local units by reducing their income income from income tax. This bill proposes the distribution of taxes in a different way. This different way looks so that income from income tax to the City of Zagreb will increase by 82 million kuna and the City of Gospić by 2 thousand kuna, while areas of special state care and mountainous areas will be left without original funds due to personal deductions. What will happen to local units in areas of special state care, we have a fresh example of Costa Rica. The aunts will not receive salaries in kindergartens, there will be no co-financing of student transportation, scholarships it will be an art to give, no social services, no law enforcement, inspectors often stop by, but if there is no means to do so. So soon we can expect a series of new Costa Ricans. Some colleagues say we should turn to European funds. But in order to raise funds from EU funds, it is necessary to have professional staff, and so many funds to finance all that necessary documentation. And then, ultimately, funds to finance the project, and only then comes a return of funds if all is properly implemented. It can take months and a half a time and a year. As the areas of special state concern were the poorest and were fueled by war, a large number of municipalities and cities in the area went into credit responsibilities to try to solve the basic infrastructure as such. For these reasons, there is very low likelihood that local units will extract more significant funds from EU funds from these areas. Add the reduction due to the increase in personal deductions of the original income to local units of special state care and mountain-mounted areas with the help of the recession of the reduction of the number of employees will be at stake in the functioning of many municipalities and cities. The program of this government states that it will stand up for the even development of all parts of Beautiful Ours but this law through the financing of local self-government does not contribute at all. Furthermore, there has been a lot of talk about decentralisation of funds to local units but as things stand, it will not be so soon on the agenda in the Croatian Parliament. The proposal for a Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government was not to be adopted by emergency procedure because it is not sufficiently prepared and does not consider the overall situation mainly of those municipalities and cities which are the poorest. For these reasons, the Council should consider, as soon as possible, the systematic measures of fiscal decentralisation prepared by the Government for the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4676	Thank you very much. At your presentation, we have a registered correction of the incorrect allegations, the respected representative Boro Grubišić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4677	Just one little short correction. It is about Croatia Kostajnica, if you have already spoken about Kostajnica, Croatia Kostajnica is called officially.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4678	Thank you very much. The debate of 10 minutes was attended by a respected representative, Franco Vidovic. He's not in the hall. He's losing his right to discuss this agenda point. The next debate of 10 minutes is respected representative Josip Boris. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4679	Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. Minister. I will refer again in my debate to that correction of the incorrect allegations because the fact is the Minister, and this is the article 45 here which speaks of... The fact is that so far, the island units of local self-government and cities and municipalities have had direct revenue in the budget 55% and 17.5% were in their special account at the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development deposited to finance capital facilities from these funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Now you've redistributed two percentage points to these amendments of the law in a way that you've put out 17.5% of those 17.5% of them in direct revenues to the budget, and half of them you've given to the counties. It means that these local self-governments are also damaged by the basis of this law for that amount. I would ask that you, by amendment of the Government, sort of correct it because they are punished in part of the law that is through their contribution. through income tax and increased base took one large amount, and it is nearly 10 million kuna, 10 million kuna for them fifty on Croatian islands because you are in the part of income based on income tax on salaries up to 8 thousand kuna practically all in losses, and we know that in these areas which are assisted areas the vast majority of these salaries is precisely within that range of 2400 to 6000 kuna net. And now we have two laws that sort of punish them. Mountain-mounted areas and PPDS remained practically in the same area when we talk about only this law. However, they too lost in part of the other law so that this law practically does not bring them anything. We, as the Government of the past, have tried especially in politics towards the islands to compensate for the funds that were once really missing in that part because we were one big investment cycle that we started, and it amounted to nearly 10.5 billion kuna in the past 8 years, which allowed the islands to live 7.5 thousand more people today to have greater employment, that tourism was developing. We helped to make as much of what was taken from them through income tax. However, in this budget for this year 2012, we see in the portfolio of the Ministry of Regional Development items which are all in particular regarding capital aid much lower than it was in the 2011 budget. We are practically unable to help them, and many of the mayors and mayors sitting in this House see that they will find it difficult to make up for a part that will be missing in this investment cycle. This law practically makes it impossible for these small municipalities and cities to function especially on islands to say in a part where they will have fewer incomes than income taxes and they are very important to them for the functioning of the system itself. Everything else has to be resolved from other incomes that are also falling due to an investment climate that is lagging low. So we don't have private investors, the state can do anything less. The fact is, it's gonna feel special on the islands. I felt it was necessary to say that and ask that part to change at least a little bit. I don't think this law should be further punished by those islands because it still went to everyone else to tell them how much he could have done in one part to compensate as much for the damage caused by another law. There's only that much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4680	Thank you very much. The next debate of 10 minutes was attended by a respected representative, Ana Lovrin. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4681	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Here we heard the minister say today in presenting a proposal for this law and it has been repeatedly repeated that this law is proposed for only one reason, which is to mitigate the negative effect of the already discussed tax law package on units of local and regional self-government. Well, Mr. Minister, if that was the reason for putting this proposal in vain, it's not going to happen, and that's what we've been talking about all afternoon. Although recently, while you were in opposition to now the parties in the coalition in power were full of the mouth of fiscal decentralisation we talked about how Croatia is a large centralised, fiscally centralised state, here is what you have done and what is proposed by the fact that you have been given the opportunity to lead this country and the net power that you have received. So for the first time, VAT was raised to 25%, so citizens are additionally burdened by an increased tax rate of 2 percentage points although you are, and we already said that while you were in the opposition, you called all sorts of terms measures of economic recovery with far less tax burden. So you've increased the rate by 2% and you've certainly booked that highest tax for the state budget. Then in order to justify in some way to the public that increase in that rate, you raised that rate of non-taxable income for those with the lowest incomes. But interestingly, in this way you did not reduce the income of the state budget, but you reduced exactly the tax mass that is shared between the units of local (regional) self-government and the state, in the part that goes the most to local self-government units, and thus you directly subtracted revenues from the very weakest cities and municipalities in which most of the population actually has the lowest amount of pay. And not to say that you've reduced both that total mass tax and, as we've heard the poorest ones, these are mountainous and mountainous areas and islands where that rate has been 90% so far, it remains 90% but of course 90% of the far less mass. We've heard here and the calculations, and whatever we're counting, it turns out that there's about 100 million kuna missing in that cake and in that mass of local self-government units. And beyond that, where this law strikes, to the most inoperable ones, which is that in that tax mass, you are actually pouring from hollow to empty, thus dividing those rates, and you have increased some of the cities and municipalities, cities and municipalities by 1.5%, to the counties of 0.5%, but you have taken it down in a position to balance decentralised functions. So you cut that position by 2% and divided it into municipalities and cities. So those poorest municipalities not only will their income be reduced in view of the increase in the untaxable base because such citizens in these municipalities will be the most, but there is an even lower amount for decentralised functions, therefore for alignment where they will also be less. The minister also spoke here at the pay phone that it is not true that this law reduced the income of local self-government units. It is true that this law is not reduced, but it has been reduced by another law, so the Income Tax Act, so now we don't have to ball, no matter what, the fact is that it is reduced. Here on the left and right, we've been listening to all kinds of calculations, on the one hand, that the units of local self-government are better, on the other hand, if they're worse, then it might be good to get some approximation with the reasons of these laws. Maybe if the ministry did an approximation, some calculation, so that we had both concrete effects here and from the proposed Income Tax Act, and also from this law to reflect the budgets of the units of local self-government. We also heard here from the SDP ranks very bile that only Greece is more tax-decentralised than the Republic of Croatia, so here I am calling, you have a chance to fix it, take this opportunity and then you could decentralize something fiscally and the Republic of Croatia and perhaps consider that from the state tax cake that you have now increased by 2 percentage points, so 25% of this VAT you really share something from the units of local and regional self-government. I'd say that too, something about the very form of the law and some of the other provisions that you've abolished. So, I am the first advocate of the clarity and conciseness of the legal texts but I do not think this is an opportunity and that it is not the happiest solution to abolish articles from 52 to 88 of the existing law, so the whole chapter bearing the term "Source of Finance" with the reason that these provisions are contained in the Budget Act and for a simple reason, because this law was in force and for the reasons that many sublaws, i.e. the acts of the units of local self-government, were cited as the legal basis of this law and were governed by this law. And in the end, it's said here that it's hard not to have both the local unit and the state in fulfilling their tasks. I'd agree with that. It has also been said that this law of art is possible but here I think it might be possible that the burden of what has been raised is an untaxable base, which makes life easier for the citizens with the lowest salaries and incomes, but it was also possible that this burden is not exclusively borne by the budgets of the local self-government units, but could be tempered, this burden may have been borne by the state or at least divided as someone whose tax mass is higher. In fact, the effects of this law will be the worst and most burdensome ones of local self-government that have so far had the least budgets, so by increasing the stakes directly, they may even shoot a little more funds in cities that are more economically powerful like Zagreb, Rijeka, etc. But certainly, the poorest municipalities will remain even poorer, they will be even harder and may not be able to function, and then it may be on the trail of Plan 21 and the pre-election promises of the abolition of 130 municipalities that they cannot survive themselves, so I guess now they need to put them in such a situation that they really go bankrupt, so that they can't be told by themselves that you can't survive, as if these citizens in these municipalities have no right to what the Republic of Croatia signed when it joined the European Charter of Local Self-Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4682	Thank you very much, esteemed MP. We've registered two replicas to your exhibit. The first is Honored Representative Milorad Batinic. Here you are, Vice President of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4683	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In fact, the esteemed representative Lovrin said several times what did not stand. First and foremost, it is that Croatia is not in terms of decentralisation, that Greece is not more decentralised than Croatia, it is probably a lapus. However, I note why I volunteered for the replica. This is not an amendment to the Law on Local Self-Government in order to decentralisation, but only to settle certain funds that local units, cities, municipalities and counties will lose, and ultimately get citizens with a tax base, by raising a tax base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4684	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4685	Thank you very much. It's kind of hard for me, I didn't quite get it, but I'll say I don't know how you understood me, but I certainly said that on the other hand it's only tax centralised than Croatia's Greece and let's see what Greek syndrome is. That's why I said you have a chance, so fix it now. So decentralisation the Tax and Fiscal Republic of Croatia. And secondly, I said that it made life easier for citizens with the lowest income on the burden of the budget of the local self-government unit. And that's what it stands for. That can be calculated nicely. It's not a secret. Let's take two income tax laws and this bill and everything is calculated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4686	Thank you very much. The next line has a respected representative, Zeljko Kolar. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4687	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues Lovrin when you tried 2010. In years to relieve the economy so when you change the income tax rate from four to three feet you also reduced your income to units of local self-government, I absolutely don't remember any measures to which you tried to compensate. And that burden has partly fallen on local self-government units. We said this wasn't ideal, but at least it's an attempt to compensate. That's one thing. It's another thing. After eight years of leading the state, you're asking us to decentralize the tax policy, and two months this government is working. So I assure you that after eight years of this government, the state will certainly be decentralised.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4688	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for giving up. So, we've exhausted the list of respondents to the debate by clubs, registered representatives in ten minutes, and I give my word to the proposing representative, Finance Minister Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4689	Thank you very much. Just a few references to the debate. The effects of the proposed law say more direct taxes will be provided from units of local self-government over 193 million. The negative effects of the reduction, I apologize for increasing the non-taxable part, are 160 million on the burden of local self-government. 160 and 193, so by this Act we give more resources to units of local self-government. But given the huge differences in average payments by and local units at the moment, we have units of local self-government that won't have enough coverage in this proposal because their burden will be higher. And that's unequivocal. From the first moment on, the government has been very clear about this. That's why we didn't go to higher percentages, because then we'd have to make a difference between big cities, small municipalities, and basically fund local self-government and problems bring down a fight between small and big and make a difference. How do we know that it was once done when it changed and the share in certain taxes was reduced to profit taxes and we know that there were huge conflicts. We figured we wouldn't do that. So that's what this day was about, and we did it. With discussions going on that there will be no more significant shifts in the coming years, that savings will need to continue to be an integral part of the budget and local and regional as well as states. We really agree that more and more funds should be used for development programmes, for structural changes that can also be at local level, and for which the EIB's funds and funds of the European Union funds are foreseen. We specifically refer to the really best organisation in that part to withdraw funds and use infrastructure, but also to part of programmes related to structural changes at local self-government levels. At that moment these remaining funds that we get on various grounds of tax will be possible to use for, I would say the work of professional people who should in some way participate in such programmes. This is also the reason why the government gave up saving more than 230 million kunas at the Ministry of Regional Development just because that part could be monitored by the EIB programmes, because we estimated that it is mostly focused on local budgets and that sin is not spent and that Croatian component is withdrawn and I would say part of the EIB's funds. And given a strange discussion about VAT and I would say the policies of the irregular development of the Republic of Croatia and that the VAT on tourism of 23% will be reduced by 1.1 next year, i.e. 25% to 10% for food and drink services, then we need to know that as much as it is a battle for the competitiveness of Croatian tourism, because we are essentially trying to cope with the fact that tourists are coming to Croatia, not to Spain, Greece, Turkey, Italy that have lower VAT on the offered food and drink services. On the other hand, it is very important that this food is produced, these drinks are produced in Slavonia and that we aim as much as possible to place these goods through tourism, not import goods. Therefore, if someone is VAT policy and does not understand in part that it is a battle for the competitiveness of the economy, but also for us to be strong exporters of Croatian products through tourism, then I don't know how better and more professional to spread it, but obviously that if we have a bigger and stronger tourist inflow, and at the same time greater extra-pansion consumption, which we are not satisfied with today, and we are not satisfied because we are too high prices, then I don't know how to fight for selling our domestic products from Slavonia and I would say wine from Slavonia. But in the end, we saw that a good part of this debate went in another direction. That we are largely dissatisfied with the Law on the financing of local self-government and that it is essentially necessary to think about a different law regarding the financing of local self-government. It is evident that when income is the backbone of income from income tax is not good. It is not good because it is obvious that income taxes are very often sensitive taxes that are related to both social policy and something else and any changes in that law are directly affected by local self-government units. And it is obvious that we need to change the system of funding for local self-government and this year, which will be the years of reform in the part of further decentralisation, it is evident that it must also be years related to the change of the Law on the financing of local self-government and that there will be far, far-reaching proposals that we have heard today, but most fundamentally that we should go to the original incomes of the unit of local self-government, not the division of common incomes. I therefore thank everyone for their contribution to this debate because we have shown how important it is for us to approach these reforms as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4690	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the lists of the defendants. We will vote on amendments to the bill and on the law when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4691	We move to a statement on the final draft law amending the Law on the financing of units of local, regional (regional) self-government, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 42. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the HDSSB Representatives' Club. I ask the Government's representative to plead on the amendment submitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4692	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. The Government does not accept the proposed amendment proposing amendments to Article 45. The law amending the Law on the financing of units of local and regional self-government in such a way as to increase the income of those same units, to extend the categories of common income taxes and to added value. That amendment would result in a complete redistribution and without further decentralisation of functions related to redistribution and transactions between state and regional self-government. Since we believe that the redistribution of income itself is unacceptable without me, I would say decentralisation and function, and at the same time we estimate that local self-government units need to ensure greater independence through direct revenues, not through joint revenues. This is why the above-mentioned amendment is not acceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4693	Thank you very much. An indication of the representative of the amendment. Mr. Agent Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4694	We are quite dissatisfied with the amendments to the law on the financing of units of local, regional (regional) self-government units of local and regional self-government taking nearly 260 million kunas and returning to the assessment of the Tax Administration and the Ministry of Finance of around 190 million. About 100 of these go only to the city of Zagreb, and the most recent example is that Ličko-Senj County will receive 9 thousand 754 kuna. So these amendments are the doors to Croatia's entry into decentralisation of profit tax distribution that the former government has centralised. I remind you that it was then distributed to the headquarters of the company, we ask it to go according to the place of origin, so that the citizens of Croatia who buys fuel in Slavonia that the profits remain in Slavonia as well as income from VAT. The total VAT value, given the difficult situation in the economy and this 25% increase, would remain a state budget for 24% of VAT, and 1% of VAT would go towards all units of local and regional self-government. So, this law now on the financing of units of local and regional self-government without these amendments is a new and even stronger centralisation of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4695	Thank you very much. I now ask that we vote manually on the amendment of the HDSSB's Club of Representatives. Who's up for the amendment? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll also have one conclusion. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get involved and vote. Thank you. I find that most votes, with 80 votes in favour, 42 against and 5 abstentions, have been passed by the Law amending the Law on the financing of units of local and regional (regional) self-government in the text as proposed by the Proposer. We also have one proposal for a conclusion by the Committee on Local and Regional (regional) Self-Government, so before I vote, I ask that the representative of the motion, the representative of the Government be made aware of this proposal for the conclusion of the committee that I have stated.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4696	The proposal for a conclusion shall be adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4697	Thank you very much. So I'm putting it to the vote. "The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to implement systematic fiscal decentralisation measures through income tax... There's no argument, Mr. Representative. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yeah, but there's no argument. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] (Laughter) [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. [[Invader Vinkovic: All political parties voted for this, and when...]] So I'm putting it to the vote. "The Government of the Republic of Croatia undertakes to implement systematic fiscal decentralisation measures through income tax, income tax, real estate tax, real estate tax and value added tax." Please, let's get involved and vote. I find that the conclusion was made by a majority of votes, with 100 votes and 30 abstentions, none against.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4698	And now we're going to the next item of the agenda. It is - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment and Rights Intervention Act during unemployment, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 42 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill's proposal in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted until the end of the debate pursuant to Article 164(4). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. You've received reports on the benches in the assembly room. Does the Government Representative, the Proposer, want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Minister Miranda Mrsic, Minister of Labour and Pension System. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4699	Dear Mr Vice-President, honourable MPs and MPs are before you the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Employment Intervention and Rights during the unemployment period in which they would like to correct some of the injustices that have been done by the law of the previous version of the law and also improve the management and management of this large system that is extremely important for the Republic of Croatia, and will be particularly important by entering the EU and the possibility of running for social funds. Before I begin to explain the law, I must tell you that 315 thousand 438 unemployed persons were registered in the Croatian Employment Service unit at the end of December 2011. The latest information on the Croatian Employment Service website is about 339 thousand. When compared to the number a year ago, it is about that way because in Croatia we have so-called. The "biklic" unemployment schedule that grows somewhere in February, March afterwards, during spring and summer falls to start growing again at the end of the year. And it happens year after year. What is the problem, the problem is that in Croatia we have the very structure of the unemployed extremely unfavourable, that we have about 30% younger than 29 of which many have never had a chance to enter the labour market and get their first job. The solution to this problem is a long-term process and which requires not only the involvement of this ministry and the Employment Service but also other institutions, especially the Ministry of Education, Sports and Science, educational institutions, because at this point in Croatia we educate a good part of the youth for the Employment Service, which is not good or clear for these young people, their parents, their families, and clearly for the state, because we should educate people who can become involved in the labour market itself. The reason for the adoption of this law, the amendments to this law, is another thing that has happened over the past year, which is the non-compliance of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment Intervention and Employment Rights Act and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Pension Insurance Act, i.e. early retirement pension under the provisions of Article 27. The law on amendments and additions to this law. So, first of all, I'd like to look back on that problem. So because of one non-compliance of the law, we dropped out of sight of a large group of women who had lost their right to compensation at the office due to a bureaucratic error while meeting the conditions for retirement. So, we want to arrange this law so that these women get the benefits they owe at the Employment Service while they meet the conditions for retirement. Therefore, an exception that provides for the extension of the right to cash compensation for unemployed women who have increased the age limit under the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Pension Insurance Act, e.g. 3 months for 2011, 6 months for 2012, 9 months 2013 and for each year it increases by 3 months compared to the previous one until the age limit is in line with the conditions for early retirement. As a result, women have lost the right to cash compensation on an age or early retirement pension. These amendments extend their right to cash compensation until the years of life for an age or early retirement, provided that they fulfil the pension period, so women may miss years of life until retirement, but they must have the right to an extension. Women to whom the cash compensation has expired will be able to apply for an extension of the cash compensation within 30 days of the date of entry into force of these amendments to the laws. Their right shall begin from the date of application for an extension of the fee, provided that they have not retired until that day. This avoids the constitution of the illegal retroactive action of this law. Women who do not have the right to cash compensation must submit a claim for extension within 30 days of the expiry of the right to cash compensation and then have no interruption of the fee. We've got about 2,000 and 100 women in the Bureau's records right now. In 2012 In the year, this right should be exercised by 842 persons, and most women will be resolved by the end of 2015. In the budget, we provided funds for 2012. Year 7,2 million kuna, 2013 6.3 million kuna and 2014 5.7 million kuna. I'd like to say by 2025. All 2 thousand 159 women achieve this right. We also wanted to correct another injustice with this law. That unemployed people can be kept on record by people who aren't really unemployed. In the right order, we are talking about members and presidents of society-run societies, and they are working on a manager's contract, since the basis of specific regulations is covered by a mandatory insurance system, so they do not seek active work, nor are they available for work, which is otherwise the obligation of all those who are kept in the register of the Institute. Also, this amendment to the law has been quite a struggle, I think, and perhaps even a discrepancy over it. We want those who are unemployed, and occasionally work to make this system transparent and fair, because so far it was possible that someone who receives a thousand 600 kuna benefits from the Employment Office for 2 thousand 714 kuna, so it is possible that this month has 4 thousand 314 kuna. So, one good salary and keep it in the employment office records. So we suggest that all those who earn more than a thousand 565 kunas that month are not kept in the employment office records because we believe that they have a good fee and that the month works even though they do not have an employment contract. We were criticised that we wanted to administratively reduce the number of unemployed in this way. However, the record we have in recent years says that this measure has been applied to approximately 2,000 to 2,000 100 people, so so so many people have been temporarily deleted from the record. I note that this does not mean any depriving of the right and that all those unemployed after the end of that period when they received a fee that is greater than EUR 565 will be re-recorded with automation with all those rights that belong to them. We also want to introduce transparency in the number of unemployed. So we're on the web. The Employment Office's website published a number of unemployed who change from day to day. But we have also started to publish here since yesterday on the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute page the number of employees in the Republic of Croatia. This is much more important because it tells us about the recovery of the Croatian economy and the increase of the number of employees. So on this page, all parliamentary representatives, and all those interested in it, can see the number of employees in Croatia with their structure from which part of the system they come from. In previous years it was a custom, and it was also in the law that when you send an unemployed person to education to delete her from the records because you think she is not unemployed. It is not fair, it is not right and we are changing this law, so we will keep that part of Article 17, so all those who are unemployed who are sent to education to gain additional experience and knowledge in order to be employed on the labour market in the records of the Employment Office. So we are not administratively reducing, but I can make a joke and say we are administratively increasing the number of unemployed in the Republic of Croatia. We are also reducing the number of board members from the current 11 to 7 members because we believe that the system should be cheaped, that system management should be as cheap as possible. We spent about 250,000 kuna a year on the expenses of the board of directors. At a time when every kuna is important to us, we think that the reduction in the number of members of the Governing Council, while maintaining the structure that was before, will not compromise the way it was managed. The management of this system is extremely important, and especially as I mentioned by joining the European Union, the possibility of access to European funds, especially the social fund that we expect next year over 70 million europa, we believe that a hierarchy should be established in the management of the Institute, and therefore we propose to introduce the Deputy Director of the Office by reducing the number of assistants so that, as far as costs are concerned, they remain the same. For the implementation of this law, the means of financing employment activities shall be ensured from the employment contribution, therefore, for the application of the proposed measures and for the addition of the law, funds in the state budget have been planned as I have already stated. Why the urgency? We believe that the basis for the adoption of this law by emergency procedure is that Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament and these are particularly justified reasons, i.e. the need for more effective intervention between the existing offer and demand in terms of economic crisis and its negative impact on the labour market in the Republic of Croatia, which has conditioned significant growth in the rate and number of unemployed dynamics, and we also believe that the problem of women who lost this right is needed as soon as possible and simply that by extending the time of entry into force of this law, more and more women would lose that right and not clearly and would lose one good support in their lives. So we propose to the Parliament that the said law be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4700	Thank you very much, Minister. On your exhibit, we have one correction to the incorrect assumption, it's the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4701	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's Mr. Minister said something I may not understand, but I'm saying it's not true, that according to the current law at the Employment Office, she could have been a person and received a monthly good salary of $4200 and what she earned. It's just not like that, because so far it's been the lowest pay limit, I think it's two thousand and 700 kuna. Therefore, when a person has earned this amount by some means, he could no longer receive compensation for the Employment Service, so that is 2 thousand 700 kuna as the legally determined amount of the existential minimum. And this new proposal says that a thousand 600 kunas is enough to live on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4702	Thank you very much. Let's move on. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? The Legislative Committee? No, I don't. For work and social partnership? Yeah. Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4703	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague. The Committee on Labour and Social Partnership at the 3rd session held on 22 February 2012 discussed the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment and Rights Intervention Act during unemployment, with the Final Proposal of the Law, P.Z. No. 42. That act was discussed by the Committee in accordance with Article 75. Rules of Procedure. In the opening statement, the proposer's representative pointed out that these amendments and additions to the law that came into effect on 1 November 2010 and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Pension Insurance, which also entered into force on 1 November 2010, which concerns stricter conditions for the acquisition of age pension rights for women three months a year, increased the age of each year resulting in a certain number of unemployed persons losing the right to a permanent cash refund. In addition, this law proposes a balanced system of cash compensation and rationalises the costs of the institute and reorganises its work in order to adapt to EU rules in a timely manner which also dominates a high rate of youth unemployment. In a brief discussion, the Proposer accepted the proposal to make it good and useful for this law to be discussed in the Parliament procedure at the meeting of the Economic Social Council even though the intention was to do so. Furthermore, the Proposer accepted the proposal to discuss in the spirit of good cooperation in future laws governing the issue of work and social partnership within the Committee's work area at the meetings of the Economic Social Council whose work is based on tripartite cooperation in addressing economic social issues. The debate sets out a proposal for an amendment to clarify the role of the central insurance register and to delete from the office of the person who makes early retirement. At its meeting, the Proposer agreed with the proposed amendments to the Committee to that act. After the discussion, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to pass amendments and amendments to the Employment Mediation and Rights Act during unemployment. You don't need to waste time interpreting the amendment, you've all got in this report. The 4 amendments are essentially two amendments in different articles which primarily refer to the role of REGOS in the control of the work of unemployed persons. So this is a place to control how much they have earned with their receipt of unemployment benefits, and nomotechnically this text is better arranged in two amendments, given that the saying is deleted early retirement pension because it is considered unnecessary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4704	Thank you very much. Does the rapporteur of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government want to? No, I don't. Thank you very much. We're going to a club debate. The first to discuss is the application by MP Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. Second application for discussion on behalf of the club Zlatko Tušak Croatian Labour Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4705	Dear Vice President, Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Amendments and additions to the Employment and Rights Intermediation Act during unemployment have offered some good solutions which in any case Croatian Labour Party supports. But there are also shortcomings in the proposed amendments to the law and some solutions that we disagree with and we think that should be corrected in any case. What we support is a solution extending the right of unemployed women to receive the right to cash compensation to meet the conditions of years of age for obtaining the right to retirement or temporary retirement under the provisions of Articles 26 and 27. Law amending and supplementing the Pension Insurance Act. This is the right of women to lose because of the inconsistencies of previous laws. According to the data provided by the Bureau, the number of women who would stop this right to cash compensation is 2382. Due to this injustice against women who were damaged by the reminder of the Croatian Labour Labour Labour Labour Party on 12 January this year, they sent a parliamentary procedure to amend the Employment Mediation and Rights Act during unemployment. Our proposal included women who lost the right to compensation in the current solution, and in the meantime they were entitled to pension and are no longer in the Croatian Employment Service records. I believe that these women were materially damaged during the period when they did not receive compensation for which we also submitted an amendment aimed at resolving this problem. I hope that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will respect and accept the amendment and financial compensation of these women, thus achieving the equality of all damaged women under the law that has been brought into this situation due to the lack of harmonisation of legal solutions. Each individual user was given a solution to the right to compensation with 55 years of age, which was the basis for early retirement conditions before the change and supplementation, and not taking into account that it takes more years for such insurance companies, i.e. months to obtain the right to retire. I believe that the number of women is not large that remain damaged and that this is a bearable financial expense that could be resolved at the good will of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, we support the solution that unemployed people cannot be considered presidents and members of the board of society because they still have special contracts with high incomes and it is unacceptable to exercise rights at the Croatian Employment Service with other workers who have found themselves there most often not by their own fault. A proposal for amendments that cannot be considered as a person who achieves a monthly income that is greater than the average paid cash fee in the previous calendar year is a wonder for us and is not acceptable for us. We do not know what was the basis for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to propose to replace the current amount of the minimum monthly base on which contributions for compulsory insurance under special rules of 2679 kuna for the average paid cash compensation in the previous calendar year at 1565 kuna, which is less than 1100 kuna. I have to ask myself, however, if this is the preparation of a field for administrative reduction in the number of unemployment in a similar way as it was done 10 years ago, even though the minister claims it wasn't, but I have to say that in this section there will be a significant number of users because this part of the data that he carried out goes to 2700 kuna. Therefore, unemployment will still be reduced by administrative measures, amendments to certain laws and rights, rather than by encouraging the economy and new employment. Currently, 339590 unemployed persons are recorded in the Croatian Employment Service records. The unemployment rate is 19.8% and in some counties more than 30%. This large number of unemployed people have not been since 2002, and this number in any case warns of an alarming situation. If someone who has a fee of 1000 kuna at the office and earns a 1565 operating contract is removed from the unemployment records and loses the right to compensation. I wonder if the promoters know what it's like to live with 1500 kuna and whether it can be fed and covered by overhead costs with that amount and whether it's social sensitivity or insensitivity. I'm sure there's no social sensitivity at this point, especially when VAT is growing, and with it it's going to increase all the cost of life. This measure is at least social, but it's administrative to show better numbers no matter how black they are and we don't even want to admit it. The purchasing power of Croatian citizens keeps falling because of the 42 countries in Europe in 2009, Croatia was 27th place, 2010 29th place, and in 2011 31st place. I wonder in the end, if we continue at this pace and this policy where we will be at the end of this year. And at the end of the grudge, this law was not on the Economic Council with the trade unions discussed, and their objections were precisely on the back of my speech because it was about social issues they had no opportunity to show themselves when they were not consulted. The unions rightly wonder whether these measures will be forced to work in the gray economy because of the need to survive the user's compensation just to survive, which would not be good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4706	Thank you very much. Next for debate on behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Ms. Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4707	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Here is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment Intervention and Rights Act. I remind all of us that the whole Employment Intervention and Rights Act came into effect at the end of 2008, and it seems to me to be in force in 1.1.2009, but I also remind you that after that date, we had several amendments and additions to that law which, regardless of the law adopted in the Assembly, we received estimates that it had been relatively well settled on issues, especially when it comes to this part of employment mediation. What happened afterwards with this law was, in fact, creating additional new injustices, and I would say on behalf of the SDP club and the illogicality that is now here at the beginning of the new government's mandate and this proposal of amendments and additions we would like to correct, that is to say, in one part of the problem of unemployed persons and the total employment services. We remember that during the past 2010 and 2011 respectively, through these changes and additions but also through changes and additions of some other laws, I would say. One of the greatest injustices that has been done in relation to women has just been done with, I would say ignoring but also refusing the last government to solve the question of several thousand women who have found themselves in a situation that, by force of law, they have extended their time when they could retire. But at the same time, because of bureaucratic relations with them, they couldn't achieve even a few months' rights to monthly compensation. I claim it was one relationship purely bureaucratic, and it was known to exist. That's what I'm saying because I asked the secretary of state back in this room if they knew about the problem and if they were going to solve it. He responded dead coldly that they knew about the problem. Unfortunately, however, there is no money and that they will have to be managed in a different way in these three and more months or months, two, three or more as much as they were at the Employment Service, and they could no longer make monthly compensation. And I would say that in fact they were treated as if they were the very ones they wanted at that age and at the one time when they couldn't make a pension they went to the Employment Service and now that's their concern. I therefore particularly welcome, on behalf of the SDP Club, these amendments and additions to the laws which are now in place for women who are currently in the institution, who are running or waiting for them in those months when they should not receive financial compensation that is now being fixed and that these women will receive that fee until they are entitled to pension. Of course, meeting all other conditions. I also remind you that as parliamentary representatives and MPs, we also asked written parliamentary questions and received answers. Even in one reply, it was said that if they were to be admitted that they would actually be in a much more favourable position at that time, because their duration of the cash compensation would be extended by five and more years compared to those who, with the same conditions, come to the institution after the amendments and the addition of the law were in force. I repeat, as if they had come at will during that period, in those years to the Employment Service. Furthermore, what I particularly welcome as a SDP club in this Act is this part of which refers to the exercise of rights during education, i.e. those persons sent by the Institute to additional education, retraining and such. We also remember one amendment and the additions to this Act introduced that if you are sent by the Institute for an additional education or requalification you are losing, as we are giving it to you, but at the same time you lose the right to monthly compensation. I would say again that now all these people who have to go to requalification are the only ones who are responsible for having found themselves in a situation where their profession is no longer sought on the labour market or their company is in difficulty, so they ended up as such at the Employment Office. So, these amendments and additions to the law now, we think, in fact, are further stimulating all those who are referring to these additional education programmes to be educated, to end it and to try to do so further, with additional qualifications to find their place on the labour market. With regard to the achievement of revenue, which, of course, part of the persons present at the Employment Office can be made in certain months. And lowering this, therefore, the height they can achieve without being, that they may not lose the right to compensation from the Employment Service. In the SDP club, we believe that this is the way that people who are in the same unemployment status are actually equated. Namely, these amendments and additions to the bill come from the definition of an unemployed person, a person who works under an act contract or through another form of work that is not actually working and is not at that time, in that period available for work, and the censorship of the remuneration is linked to the rights which a person achieves as an unemployed person. So, which is realised in terms of cash compensation, not rights that would result in her being employed under the labor contract. So a defined amount of pay. We welcome the fact that it was taken into account the level of receipt and that it decided that the amount that a person may earn under the act contract without being temporarily deleted from the unemployment records should not be greater than the maximum amount of cash that can be received at the Employment Office. That means the average cash fee, yes, yes. This means, as is actually said, that if a person can earn less than 1565 kuna per month that it can continue to exercise the right to cash compensation, so that means that he, therefore not deleted from the record temporarily, would receive a cash compensation and what is above that is then not for that month, that is, for the month after that is the right to cash compensation. But beyond that, it can re-apply further to the record and continue to exercise the rights it had before. And we think it's in times like today that, and changes in the labour market, changes in wage policy, so the reasons people come to the Employment Service, we think it's something that's really going towards equating the unemployment status of the Employment Service. Finally and in this sense we really consider it an improvement, here and we support this policy. Because in some ways we don't think that this is going to go towards an administrative reduction in the number of unemployed teams anymore because in the end line, we have information that says that at the expense of people who go to additional training that they will be able to get the benefits back, and that kind of person in the last few months was about, in fact, in the last year it was because they didn't get paid when they went to education there were 15 thousand 868 people. So we, in a way, that number, if I could say it so conditionally, are going back to the unemployment records, and that the government and we both have the first goal of reducing the number, then we would probably solve this number in some other way. And finally about the Governing Council, we welcome, also on behalf of the SDP Club, the changes proposed, so as to reduce the number of members of the Governing Council and to introduce the Deputy Director of the Croatian Employment Service. And we believe that all this together with what I've said and everything else this law actually brings with it will also contribute to some future, along with an additional reorganisation of the Employment Service, but I would say better work and efficiency of the Employment Office itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4708	Thank you. Next on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, representative Mr. Djuro Popiac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4709	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here's actually it's hard to fully understand the meaning and the real purpose of this law. Of course, both the promoter and the coalition always find valid arguments and talk about reasons that they are not. The answer to the question of what is the purpose and purpose is already on the second page, or the first one, and that is under the Chapter – Assessment of the situation and I will quote only a few sentences that will definitely indicate what the real purpose of these changes is. So one of these items states: "In particular, the indicative differences in administrative data on the number and rate of unemployment and internationally recognised and comparable ILO rates of unemployment are the statistical standard of EUROSTAT." Also, it's like that. In the third quarter of 2011, the unemployment rate was 12.6 while the administrative unemployment rate at the end of 2011 was 18.7. Does this mean that today's ruling coalition has finally understood what is international and what are international criteria and what are internationally recognised values when we talk about unemployment? I won't remind you, and you did it and you did it reminding me of what the former government was doing, what you were saying and what you were able to say when we mentioned that the only relevant right rate was internationally recognised and comparable to ILO's method. Today you say that in your preamble of law. It also writes: "This legislative proposal proposes respecting the need for all professional and administrative capacities and labour market institutions to focus on activities aimed at those unemployed people who are really unemployed and actively looking for work and are available for work, redefining the conditions under which a person is considered an unemployed person." I'm apostrophe, the ones who are really and really unemployed. Does this mean that you are finally suggesting that the number of people registered to the Croatian Employment Service is not relevant when we talk about the really unemployed? Because you say that really unemployed and then answer the question of how you're gonna handle it. You will decide by reducing the criteria by which someone has the right to be in the Register of the Croatian Employment Institute. It's a real and real reason to change this law and it doesn't have to be hidden, that's it. So, of the 2,800 kuna that someone can earn legally by working with an employer, by hiring an act contract or something, you're reducing it to what, 1550? It is an unequivocal administrative measure and it will definitely reduce the number of registered people on HZZ and that is the real reason why you are changing it. You're talking about schooling, so one of the most successful measures, and it is, of course, still valid is the financing of unemployed persons in the process of retraining and additional education. Well, that's what you pay for, that's what it costs. And of course, during that time people were out of the employment records system, but they were educated to enter the world of work, to be competitive on the labour market, to change their qualifications and to find their place on the labour market, not to be of course at the Employment Office. And a good part of them, of course, got hired afterwards, but when that schooling ended, of course, they went back to the Employment Service and they couldn't find a job. And what was the problem? So if you wanted to suggest that you shouldn't be, or of course you're going to say that you're going to stay on record and that we did it on purpose to administratively delete them, then why don't you do the same with public works? Public works remain on the agenda, and you ministers say that public works will be as if you've just invented it and reduced the number of unemployed. Public works have stood as a measure forever and will likely stand. And they are deleted from the Croatian Employment Service records when they leave for that job. And they come back when they're done, unfortunately. Some find jobs, some stay, but most come back. So wipe that out, too. Why would that cost? Now something about the Board of Directors. Very perfidious, but actually transparent. What did you do? So far, three members of the Board of Directors have come from the ranks of employers, three members have come from unions, three members have been appointed by the minister in charge of the work. So what are you doing now? So, two members remain who will appoint a minister in charge of work, one will appoint a GSV, but from the government's portfolio, so the government will have three members, employers will have one member, trade unions will have one member. So, you completely eliminate from the Governing Council the ones for which the Administrative Council exists and for which the Croatian Employment Office exists, and these are employers and workers. So, the instrumentators and the service, so the office that needs to perform its function on the labour market. It's in their function, not in the function of the government at the end of the ending. That's why you change the board, not the savings. To save her, you could've cut or abolished their fee. I know for a fact that they would do it without compensation. But you, in this way, install three members of the government and throw out 4 members – 2 from employers and 2 unions. That's the reason. Ask the unions what they think about it. Well, it's an interesting way to elaborate on that change in governance. So you're bringing in the Deputy Director. The Member seems to me 66th to be talking about the way the Director of the Croatian Employment Service is elected, so the Government appoints him on the proposal of the Minister in charge of Labour but on the basis of the public tender carried out. Here, he will now appoint the Deputy Government on a proposal from the minister in charge of the work, but it does not write on the basis of a public tender. You forgot that. I think you may have made a mistake, but if he's already a director by these criteria, then what bothers you to conduct a competition for a deputy. Why should the Director be chosen by the basis of a public tender and not a deputy. Of course the labour market is of course the problem of unemployment is great. Today you're somewhere at 340 grand. You're banalizing it, and it's no longer a problem today, so don't even wear badges. We know about 317 grand, and we remember what you said. The largest number of people registered at the Employment Office last year was 336 thousand and then, of course, we even tried to justify what you are saying today that the Croatian labour market is seasonal, that the Croatian economy... the character and that will always be so until the structure changes. [[You don't understand.]] I admit it, of course, because I was part of that system myself, and I know it is. But just for the sake of political correctness, we have to say that 336 thousand were of course and was a big problem, and today 340 thousand, my God, that's normal to happen and that's how it's going to go down in summer. What was of course brought as a program and as a national plan to encourage employment you probably managed to see and read, says... For 2012 we would like to see that in this programme there are possible new ideas. [[You don't understand.]] There is, I am not going to say it now, 13 programmes that the government has implemented, which this government will, in part, probably continue to implement and that is what is quality and that is what the Croatian Employment Institute is likely to do very successfully at the end of the day. But we would like to see in some way some of your new contributions, so here, given that the newly established ministry that I trust is much more time to deal with work and pensions because that's what it does and that other active measures will be generated that will reduce this daily figure that will affect it and, of course, help the economy to actually be that largest employment and employability generator on the Croatian labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4710	Thank you. We have a correction to Mrs. Gordana Sobol's incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4711	Well, Mr. Vice President, a fellow drinker said somewhere at the end of the debate that we didn't care about those 340 thousand unemployed and that we were carrying badges while there were 317 thousand unemployed. First of all, I'd like to say it's absolutely not true. The first thing we've done is we've shown transparently and we've shown from day to day how many unemployed we have. And secondly, that number is not our number. This figure is mostly thanks to you and what you have not done in your mandates so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4712	Thank you. Next on behalf of the HDSSB Club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4713	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary, I'm glad you're with us today. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, here's the last duel, the verbal duel, though, between the Pope's representative and his colleague Sobol, speaks of that every government, regardless of whether it's Kukuriku or the one before, I don't know what to call it, is trying to show the unemployment rate, clearly first as little as possible, and secondly and less responsible for that enormous unemployment rate as it is for us. You can also call it the unemployment rate polling rate, or the administrative unemployment rate per euro standard of Eurostat or ILO poll rates. But the fact is that this is the main problem in the Republic of Croatia. The fact is that it is really a problem that I would say, so that in medicine we can tell me and how the Minister himself knows, screaming a problem in the Republic of Croatia. And now here's what was one measure when, by one action, we remember last year because last year was the 2011 list. List of the population and when the censusors download 12, 15 thousand from the Croatian Employment Service, as they are employed, then the unemployment rate fell. So here we have in this first part of this legislative proposal that it is proposed that an unemployed person cannot be considered presidents or members of the board of directors of society. I don't even know how many board members there are. I first thought it wasn't the board of directors or boards, not the members of the board of directors, how many of them there were in the first place to be led to the Employment Office as unemployed. The members of the board of directors are mostly employees, mostly indefinitely. So I don't see what that's all about and how low their unemployment rate is if these people get off the employee list. What particularly delights me in this legislative proposal, which is what this second part of it says about women's women's sex who, at the age of their lives and their status at the Employment Service, lost or extended their right to retire from 3, then 6, then 9, then 12 months. I've been getting 10 calls and phone calls and personally contacted with such women to say in despair that they don't have any more social security to say this peopleally taken off the Employment Service, and retirement has to wait 4, 6, 7 months, which fell on the burden mostly of their children. And these children are also in problems of unemployment and all that this recession is doing in our citizenship. And that's what I have to admit to the Ministers I have a feeling this measure of yours to allow these women to, by means of a social sensitivity through a just measure in this law to get rid of this thing because, as you yourself set out, the time to exercise the right to an age pension, or early retirement, is the number of women such as 2,000 382. That's a lot of people. And I say in my town and county in Slavonski Brod and Brodo-Posavina since I live there there was a large number of phone calls to personal contacts where I really don't know what to tell people about this measure that was taken last year during the last government without counting what to those women who are extending this deadline of 3, 6, 9 or 12 months. For this reason, the bickering between the number of members of the Governing Council is now whether 7 whether 11 political influences on the composition of the council and all that brings that influence is already a matter I would say politics. Not something else but what the ruling set does. What she wants to do is carry out a reduction from 11 to 7 but in that number 7 by providing herself with a majority. So I'd say we don't have anything to object to, but that's just it. The game is transparent. Here comes Mr. Drinker. Loud and clear. Why is the director of the office going through the contest and the deputy isn't? Well, that's hard or it's quite clear why, clearly, the director will now appoint this seven-member board of directors as the most similar or suitable deputy director. So, it's all clear. But given this measure on which I congratulate and want to say that it is just and corrected something that was not a fair club of the HDSSB, I'm talking about women who turned 65 and have the right to retire but with a delay of 3, 6, 9 and 12 months finally to gain some kind of social and material security, and that has not been the case until now, I don't think that the HDSB club could accept this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4714	Thank you. Next on behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU representative Mr Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4715	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment and Rights Law at the time of unemployment and what I will say at the beginning that the Proposer had no other ambition to regulate relations so that someone could earn and maintain the status of the unemployed that he had no ambition to change the composition of the Governing Council, that he had no need to establish different records through REGOS. Perhaps even for a solution to this problem of three months if we had a more flexible bureaucracy in Croatia, it would not be necessary to amend these laws, because I would remind you that in the Employment and Rights Intermediation Act during Unemployment it is still today that beneficiaries of the benefits are entitled to compensation for obtaining the first condition for retirement. I believe that if there were an evaluation of the effects of this law and it was in the 10th month of 2011 it would take advantage of a good time when amendments and additions to the Emergency Insurance Act went into two readings that this should not have happened to us as a mature society. Because basically all we have is training the strictness of a bureaucratic apparatus that he said, or when he gave a solution, he wrote a date, prejudged that there will never be an amendment and an addition to the pension insurance law, and it happened. So, the first norm stayed, the second changed, and who grabbed it? Women who were left for three months without compensation were killed. And the exact statements quoted here by colleague Sobol that Secretary of State Rogman said there was no money. And you know what money this is about? It's about 222 women with an average 1,500 kuna fee in three months, it's about a million and a half kuna. And those 222 women here pay the price. We are solving all of these for the future by this law where they will have the right to compensation at the Employment Service for obtaining the conditions for retirement. Even 5 which is a relatively small number has lost the right to go to early retirement because at various stages we had different criteria that someone could permanently stay at the Employment Service until the first condition for retirement. So, only the last draft of the law has introduced 32 years of internship that someone can receive pension conditions from the Employment Service, and before we have had others, so there have been these five people who have also lost the right to these proposed amendments and supplements again be able to renew the request and receive compensation for obtaining pension rights. So the emergency procedure is justified. Why? Because in this month 87 people could lose that right. And that's why it's okay, and that's why I'm glad most of the clubs supported it, maybe not entirely, but at least in part and decided to vote for this bill. So what do you say? I don't have a personal, I can say here for this Assembly speaker one of my personal views based on what I've learned about my life and work in shipbuilding. You know, one of the welding techs has said, gentlemen, it's not crucial how many welders are going to fool, it's crucial how many feet of deception he's going to make completely correct after x-rays because all that other stuff is extra cost. Why, because I have to work again, work again. It's the same with the laws. We make laws here, and we should care about making laws without mistakes because every mistake costs someone, someone pulls out the thick end. There's these 222 women here. I, since the promoter said he could not accept the re-application of this law, can only direct them to seek judicial compensation for damages. If I have to, I'll help with that, but I'm saying it's my job in the future if any of them want to seek their own judicial protection. I'd like to see this extra training at the office, I'd really like to know already when Mr. Former Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship said that it had given its effects, I'd like to know how many unemployed are really through the training process qualified for concrete work, they found jobs and no longer returned to the employment office. I also need to explain one detail here that brings a lot of confusion. All those who have a permanent fee or cash compensation are paid health insurance and contributions and indeed if we have a situation where someone on this basis gets 1,500 kuna and earns up to 2700 kuna as a second income then we come up with a story that someone can be unemployed and receive up to twice as much as the lowest net salary paid in Croatia. So here is a clear message that is not idyllic and which is not without its other side, it has its own harmful side. If the clarity of this message is to seek transparency, to seek justice, that anyone can earn ten thousand kunas, but therefore I suppose six months will be left without compensation. So nobody's banning anyone from making money, but they're going to be 6 months without compensation, and they're going to be able to go back to the unemployment records, or they can get their status back. If this provision introduces more justice, then it must be a negative consequence that a part of it will run into the gray zone so that it will work without reporting any income. However, I must say again that this is a very small percentage of the total number of unemployed, that it is only 0.6%, that it is just over 2,000 people who have been in that status, and that status will be under strict control of the REGOS in the future. I also advocate and will always advocate tripartism, social dialogue and representation of representatives of social partners in the governance structures of public institutions and all that is of general interest, but we must sit down and agree. We now have the situation that employers are paying contributions to the Croatian Health Insurance Office because everyone is asking how much money they pay. Here at the Croatian Employment Office, the contribution per rate is 1.7% paid by employers, and that makes up a total of some 600 million revenues from the state budget per year, and the budget spends more than 2.5 billion kuna on all forms of care for the unemployed from fees to training. So if we're going to have a principle then we have to have the same principle for everyone, for all the governing bodies of all these public or state institutions. Also, I would never allow that at the Pension Insurance Office where the incomes of the Pension Insurance Institute are 19 billion kuna + 5 that goes into the second pension column and where we have another 10 billion obligations for the state to play a dominant role, for example. employers. But I would caricate this situation and say that it would be good for employers to have 5% of the employment contributions and to fight for each of these measures to be effective, not to solve and deliver their unemployed to the state with high severance and pension. Therefore, I love and appreciate the correct employers, but here we have an open system, a system for someone to manage this, and he doesn't care how many unemployed are going to get a job again. So, with all these amendments and additions, I hope that, in the future, all laws defining work-social legislation will be very well discussed on the Economic and Social Council, which will now be formation in the Ministry of Labour and Pensions. So there are no longer even assumptions that someone could avoid such a debate and that with our proposals of the law here we will get opinions. This does not mean that it will be a consensus, that it will be the general agreement of the social partners, but as a representative in the Croatian Parliament we are interested in separate opinions and which position has which social partner. So in this part, we estimate that the urgency of the amendments and the addition of the Employment Intermediation Act and the rights during unemployment is to estimate that it brings much more particularly about these women who would lose their right to around 830 and something this year, that it brings much good. And we can't interrupt with the mind that when they get their first retirement, they're going into early retirement. What does that mean? That means their automatic pension is 20.4% less than what they've earned. So let's be aware. We are playing with people who are existentially threatened and therefore, with the possible defects of this Act, this has absolute advantage and the Croatian Party of Retired Party club will support the adoption of this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4716	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, Mr. Dragutin Lesar's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4717	A short time and only three things. A colleague of Hrelj presented information on 222 women who lost their right to compensation for three months during the last calendar year. He didn't quote the source of the data, so I'll take it as a right to dispute accuracy. According to my data, that number's twice as big. Because the assessment, this year is over 800, and they're at the Bureau right now at 2150. The source of the data please, then we'll be able to paralyze. And secondly, the reverse action of a provision of law on such an example when, due to the error of the legislator, part of the citizens of this country was placed in a socially unequal position, when we broke one right by our will and by law. Mr. Minister, no one will object to you because it's not about deprived rights, it's about reducing rights, it's about correcting the injustice that was done here by inaction. That's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4718	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Minister Miranda Mrsic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4719	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, first of all, I would like to correct Mrs. Lovrin's incorrect allegations. Madam MPs, it is true that someone who is currently at the office is receiving a fee of 1600 kuna so that they can earn 2600 kuna per contract of action and therefore have a salary of 4200 kuna. That's true, obviously you've been misinformed. So, that's possible. Those who, under this law of the present, mean if we don't adopt, if we earn more than 2700 kuna plus these 1600, it means that they're going to have about 4300 and more then they're deleted from the records for as many months as they get if that number means 4300 divided by 1600. So it won't be in the employment office's records for two months, and after that, they return to automation again, they don't lose any rights. However, if they have compensation, that compensation continues. So that's how it is. What we want to show for this is that some things need to be clearly shown and transparently guided and allowed all to be equal. Because if we go back and Mr. Popiac, the representative Popiè spoke about the classification of the International Labour Organisation, so the unemployed person is considered a person who is capable or partly capable of working 15 to 65 years of age and who does not work, actively seeking work and is available for work. Therefore, the reason for the removal from the record would be the fact that such a person is employed and that it works. Someone who receives 4200 kunas has a contract of action she does. Hence, she is neither in the mood for work nor actively seeking a job because she is employed at another job. So that's why we think it's fair, why we think it's transparent. And we have already said at the beginning of our term that we will not mystify the number of unemployed and that the number of unemployed is a clear figure in the office, that it is changing. Therefore, you will also see very quickly what you did not see in your time, and that means you will see exactly what basis you will be deleted, on which basis you will delete people from the record. So, according to Article 17, you will be able to see precisely at any time at which base and how many people are temporarily deleted or permanently deleted from the record. We're talking about 2300 people who when they're deployed to 12 months that's about 50 to 100 people on 334000 unemployed, which is practically below 1%. According to that information that I have and just to remind you that in 2002, the most cash compensation was 900 kuna, so that by about 2007, it would be 1200 kuna. But then someone thought of 1.1.2009, so in your Government Mr. Drinker to equalize himself, to erase the amount of the biggest cash compensation and to replace the amount of the minimum monthly base on which the contributions to compulsory insurance are calculated according to specific regulations and the links to the form of labour pay definition. That was 2700 kuna. Therefore, people who earn 4200 kuna and unemployed are definitely unable to consider themselves unemployed because it is clear that such gain does not stimulate an unemployed person to work under a contract of employment, so these changes also stimulate those who want and who are looking for a job to find a job. Unfortunately, retrograde law enforcement is not possible, and no financial resources are available. We are aware that these 220 women have lost that right and that, unfortunately, we cannot give it back to them. Most of them retired and consumed their pension insurance rights. When I talk about administrative or polling unemployment, one measure is the other measure of what is happening in Croatia, which means that the economy cares and that every day we lose more jobs. But we're not gonna compare things, and we don't want to. But unfortunately these 339 thousand that are unemployed today can't be compared to the number in February 2011 because these numbers are missing, that's where the number was hiding. But we can compare only with the figures at the end of the month, so at the end of January 2011, there were 334 thousand 357 people at the Employment Office, at the end of January this year there were 334 378 people. And that's the variation that's going to happen. So we wait until February and see what the number is. Anyway, it's gonna be big, and we know that in February and March, the number is the biggest. I'm sorry that the Prosecutor in his momentous dissection of the law and searching for hidden messages and hidden intentions forgot if anything else to apologize to women who lost their right to cash compensation because there was no money. So, in any word, you didn't look back on what you could do with a feather move. And I'm sorry you didn't do it that way, and I'm gonna want to know if you're gonna back this bill or if you're gonna stay with yourself again that you're not socially sensitive and that you don't see that those 2300 women need our help and that they need to be able to do so. I wouldn't want to be in the skin of those women, but not even their families who had to if they were lucky to have a family who had to finance them for those three months, and not to adopt this law will then finance them for six months and more. When we talk about education, then look what happened. Education was definitely a measure of data-cutting at the Employment Service because here's a story that's from life, and it paints what you've been doing and what we don't want to do or do. The man lost his job at a textile company, he was a textile designer, so he was working on those patterns at the tailoring, he had two kids and a woman who was unemployed. He went to the office at the end of the 11th month when there was a lot of pressure that everything was going to be in education and just then he tried to cut that number to some acceptable number, the man came to his referent and said I want to work, give me, I know that in the textile brand I won't be able to work, give me a retraining into some profession where I can find a job. And she's a consultant or a counselor, as far as I know, put in front of him a list of possible educations in his qualifications that he could be educated. I now note that we pay all those educations fat and that they are not free. And that's what a graphic designer says in those professions. The man liked it and said it's something I can do and it's convenient for me to do it. And the lady who was honest, and she said, sir, I see you're looking for a job, and you need it if you go to education what happens to you, you're going to be unemployed again, you're just not going to be at my place anymore, but you're going to be with another reference officer. That's not what you've been doing. And we don't want to do that. So we want all things to be seen, to be seen and to be evaluated. And when we talk about the board of mathematics is an exact figure. So, according to our proposal, two members of the Governing Council are appointed by the Government, three GSV, one of which is the Government we know, one of the names of the employees and one of the names of the unemployed. When we look at the structure of the previous council, then the government had 48% members, and now it's going to have 42%. I think it's a sufficient number that says that the government doesn't have a majority in the Governing Council, but that it wants to manage the office in a transparent and clear way. I'm sorry that the Prosecutor didn't admit his own mistake and said we were wrong because Mr. Rogman spoke on your behalf, not in his own.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4720	I thank the minister. We have two corrections to incorrect allegations. Mr. Gjuro Popiach's first responds.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4721	I don't know if there's any point in answering this at all because I'm so unfortunately not having business opportunities, it's much shorter. I'm just saying it's not true that anything has been mystified. The Croatian Employment Service every month until the 10th, or if it was Sunday until 13, 14th, published a publication much better quality than this number you so perfiduously kicked out on the web. And inside, it said everything, how busy it was, how unemployed it was, how far away it was, how what it was. I haven't seen one more of these. I'll try to find one of your latest information. So this is what you're trying to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4722	Agent, please tell me what you're correcting.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4723	That it wasn't a mystification, and I'm telling you that a lot of you as a minister will sweat more than me as a minister of labor. Because everything you've done to these tax laws to the entrepreneurs will make your number hurt a lot more than it hurts me. I've been in pain of 336 grand, and you're going to hurt about 420 grand again.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4724	Time. Thank you. Next to correct Mrs. Ana Lovrin's incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4725	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I don't know what to fix, but apparently the minister has some other math. I wanted to fix something else and say first that nobody informs me and I don't need to be informed, I have the texts of the law proposed and the former and I'm reading the text of the law about it I'm going to talk about here.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4726	Councilwoman, what are you correcting?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4727	I am now correcting and saying that according to the current governing council law, there could not have been 48% of the government's representatives because of 11 members of the 3 members on the proposal of the Minister, I do not know which mathematics can be 48%. I don't think there is one.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4728	Thank you. I would like to inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure have expired time for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. We're moving on to an individual debate. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic's representative came forward for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4729	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, with an associate, a colleague and a colleague. Right now, and from this, I would say a little proposal to amend and supplement the law has seen how much it made sense to form the Ministry of Labour and Pension System. First of all, not only does this in some way and realizes not only our plan, but our focus, first of all, on our political commitment to redeploying the work and repositioning the work especially in relation to the capital, and that is something that the left by coming to power of the sea and should do. What this bill does, and it seems, is precisely what Mr. Minister has said and what Mrs. Gordana Sobol has done, saying on behalf of the SDP Club, is exactly the whole series of activities that are aimed at hiring unemployed people and actively looking for work, and not as it has been the case so often, not only have they been left out of work, not only there was no perspective, but they were practically being demotised to look for a job. Work was something that not only didn't have its place and position, something that shouldn't even be paid. Those who have now led to a whole series of problems, I would not want to look back on it, but here is the minister not to waste his power on it. For all the things that are now being challenged and wanting to challenge and those who have done nothing about this matter, and even when they were doing it, their work and work had no effect, and when they had the effect, those effects were not positive. In any case, it is especially to welcome the government through this ministry to pay particular attention to this number of women who have found themselves in the divide between compassion and administration and to one political one I would say to the option which has suffered a colossal defeat, it was not something to look forward to discussing 2 thousand 382 people. It's something that maybe doesn't bring such a number... And that's something you shouldn't bother with. [[You don't understand.]] This very different approach that takes care of these women independently of their numbers, while at the same time ensuring in the budget this amount speaks of the government showing not only interest, but also the soul to understand this problem. And, Mr. Minister, I personally congratulate you and your team, where you are, as a man, at the head of this resort, and above all, take care of this one most sensitive group of women, unlike some other of your former ministers of men, ministers, colleagues who have had the opportunity to help women, but unfortunately, they have made a polygon of their failed policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4730	Thank you. Next for the debate of 10 minutes, the representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4731	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague. Here, I do belong to those who understand the purpose of the law, and I would congratulate everyone who has supported it, or who will support this law. It means they're both empathy and understanding the troubles of others. In fact, the problem of increasing unemployment is of course a major problem, and that is why we need serious access to it, and these changes to the laws that we have on the bench today are actually about it. I would just briefly refer to education, in which way we can increase the number by education, actually reduce the number of unemployed, education as a very important active measure of active policy where complementary actions, i.e. there is actually change and skills of unemployed people, and thus actually help them survive on the labour market. It would also mention the rights that such persons have, or retain, which are financial assistance and benefits during education, i.e. during the course of that education. Also, the costs of transport and other aids and compensations that have been so far which, of course, are maintained by this law. But also when you say you go to another place of residence to work before it was either to pay or to travel, or to move. But now it's been introduced to pay for both. Of course, funds should always be found especially in times of crisis, so the minister himself at the beginning of his actions at the ministry showed that in various ways he could be released, i.e. to reduce costs in the system to obtain as much resources as possible to be released for active approaches, i.e. active employment policies. However, we must also point out, we need to know that this is not a right of employment, but that it is when we talk about this education, that this is a preparation for the unemployed when, of course, new jobs are opened so that they can adequately compete. In this way we prevent a lot of things, not sitting unsatisfactory, frustrated not sitting at home, but actively involved in the process of learning, education, gaining new knowledge, new skills, means that we also prevent social exclusion that is very important in those moments. We have heard the data that 30 % of young people under 29 are at the Employment Office, which is very important because we have to enable such people to work first, we have to allow such people to finish a year of traineeship and those activities that have a traineeship, or that they can pass a trainee's exam. We heard that the minister mentioned that other institutions should be involved, especially education institutions, of course, and I would hope here that we should include local self-government, or regional self-government where we have good examples. I also spoke in a debate yesterday about the good examples of the City of Dubrovnik, which we have also modified the proposed measures that were previously at the Employment Office. So, with a little modification, we have good successes, which is why I say that we should include other institutions besides including local self-government. I will be one of those who will support, commend our minister who, in fact, has actually brought this amendment to the law, in fact, harmonized a discrepancy that was a bureaucratic mistake, especially for this very vulnerable group, a group of women. We know that in a woman on the labour market that she is always in a more unfavourable position especially women of this age and older, and that is why and as a woman, I stress that, as well as a socialist, it is one of the things that is very important. Now let me not repeat everything that this law extends as these measures extends the law. However, only in the end would it look back at one of the findings that the HDZ counterpart said, which is that they were already programmes. That's right. There were some programs and programs will be left behind and we will not do what the other party did to us during the last term, and that is all we have suggested well that they have ignored. We will always leave what is good, and that is why we will leave both the rights and the proposals, and we will also try to modify or work towards the better, so that there are no proposals and programs so as not to be dead letters on paper, which we have examples that we have received as representatives, and one example our minister listed earlier in the address. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4732	Thank you. And last to discuss, Mr. Zeljko Schamper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4733	Dear Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Today's amendment to this law is at least a year late, especially when the consequences arising from unemployment rights are seen. In particular, in the past year and in the first two months of this year, women who found themselves at the Croatian Employment Service felt it. Getting fired after 30 years of work is in this we say the number of unemployed is certainly severe trauma especially if you miss a few months until retirement. However, there is therefore an HZZO institution and a right to cash compensation for obtaining the conditions for retirement. Coming to the women's office gave them solutions to have the right to cash compensation until the 55th birthday when they qualify for early retirement. And there wouldn't have been any problem if there hadn't been an amendment to the Pension Insurance Act that the terms of the pension and years of life have increased by three months each year. This meant that in 2011 early retirement was at 55 and three months and in 2012 at 55 and 6 months. The first problem was that the error of the administration in their solutions entered the date when their right to cash compensation ceased. The main problem is that, in accordance with the amendments to the Pension Insurance Act, the provisions of the Law on Intermediation and Rights during unemployment and, of course, the third failure to issue new solutions have not been brought into line. As this has not been done, women have again suffered great damage and new traumas. After losing their jobs, there were three or six months left without the financial compensation that life means to them. Their desperate pleas, complaints of justice came upon the high wall of the Bureau's bureaucracy. The answer was similar to the answers that a small man gets in search of justice, "You have no right." For these reasons, I am pleased that, under the urgent procedure of the Ministry of Labour and the pension system, the draft law on amendments to the contested law, which will mean the end of the nightmares for that group of women before retirement. The only thing I regret and even more damaged women is the fact that this bill has no feedback because there are justifiable reasons for that. These women are not to blame for some institutions not doing what they needed to do a year ago, and they have no means to live. I don't know why, but this is just one in a series of examples of the search for justice where often the victims of the weaker and perhaps stronger sex are victims. Even in a fresh memory, great damage has been done to retired members of the second pillar when there was no political will to solve their multi-annual problem. The pardon only came two months before the election, but the great damage remained irreparable. The account always ends up being paid by the weakest institutions such as in this case the Employment Service and the former government responsible for this big problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4734	Thank you. An oversight has been made, of course, when there's always a lot of paper. We still have one individual debate from Mrs. Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4735	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's thank you for getting my word now at the end and since it's too late I'll be very brief in my presentation. Here we see these days often with the bill of law that attitudes, opinions, alterations of how the sides of Mark's square change or how the bench changes in this assembly. So now this really is a lot of debates about what they're really unemployed, which they really are available for work etc. Is that the number of administrative or polling jobs, which is the right percentage, etc. But personally it doesn't matter to me at all, I don't care if a man is a statistical figure or not a statistical figure. Why I will not support this law is because this law still reduces the rights of those who are most vulnerable to the least, those who unfortunately are out of work because of this situation. Although the minister corrects my claim, he says someone misinformed me and says that under the current law someone who earns 4200 kuna a month can work, and then, according to this new logic, he could be at the Employment Service who earns 3200 kuna a month. I'm saying it's not like that, or I'm totally misreading the law. Therefore, in the existing Article 47. The law states: "The payment of the cash compensation is suspended to the user for as many months as the amount of the coefficient to be obtained by sharing the total income of the relative income with the lowest monthly basis for which contributions to compulsory insurance are calculated, the minimum wage is read." So the total receipts so far have been divided into 2700 kuna and for how many months has he been deleted from the Employment Office. Now this article is changing in a way that in as many months, again amounts to the coefficient, etc. Shareable with the total personal receipt that is shared with the average of the paid cash fee in the previous calendar year, which would be, say, 1600 kuna. Now, when you share a 5 thousand kuna receipt in a year, divide by 2700, you will not be deleted for 2 months from the Employment Office, and when you share it with what is now proposed and that is 1600, then you will be deleted for 3 months from the Employment Office. I understand that math, so now you'll be able to get a fee if you've earned an average annual under 1600, and so far you could if you've earned less than 2700. So, so far there's been a provision and it had its own logic. If the minimum wage in the Republic of Croatia is set at 2700 because it is estimated to be some kind of existential minimum then it is said that I will not delete you until you cross that amount. Now it's down to 1600, so it says 1600 kuna, that's enough to live on. And so they can't support the laws, for no political reason, but simply because people, we've heard before that people are detimizing themselves in order, which is now. So someone said if I made 1,000 kunas under a contract to do any job, they'd wipe me out of the Employment Service. And if it were just and just, I wouldn't say it for the reason that none of these people who occasionally earn anything and would love to invite him to some honest job and he's very much available for work, because that moment will leave a job on a contract for 5 or 10 days and accept it if the office offers him a permanent job. So much for that justice. What I see is being complemented by this law, so I'm modeling something else, maybe there's a man when he regulates, and when he determines the norm, maybe he doesn't always remember all life situations. Here we have completed this article 10th with the members and presidents of the board of directors of society because they have management contracts under which they receive severances etc. Whether anyone may have remembered persons and workers leaving with large severances from public companies or private companies, whether they can apply for such a huge severance the next day to the Employment and Receipt Office, although they have received these severances. Some companies account for up to 500 thousand kuna. I don't know if that's what's been thinking. As regards the new provisions on the management of the office, as regards the introduction of the Deputy Director's office as a help in the work of the Director well. Of course, it is not called the basis of a public tender, it is already a well-known view of this government that they do not need a public competition, do not need transparency. You've already said several times on the occasion of the other laws we've discussed that you're responsible for the government and that you want to take over everything and put everything under your hat and your hat, and then you'll answer. Well, I don't know if you've forgotten to delete the public tender for the principal then, or the principal will be chosen by the competition, and that's where we'll put the commissioner of politics behind him because we won't give him a primate. I really don't understand that logic as to why the competition chooses the director, and the deputy doesn't by competition but maybe it's the logic of this mathematics by which 3 out of 11 is more than 3 out of 7 and I've calculated here quickly is a percentage of 43, so far it's a percentage of 27. It's a clear and exact math. And finally, just one more word, euphorically fellow Anticevic congratulated you for solving one administrative I don't know what to say wrong or one non-compliance of the law for these women who were left without compensation. But they said, when you said you couldn't retroactively apply the law, certain provisions of the law could be applied retroactively. Well, then when you were so much complaining about the mistakes of this past government, then you could really fix it all right and to the end, so you could retroactively apply that provision if you really wanted to correct the injustice. But as you said, they've earned their pension rights, then I don't know what the problem is. If they have achieved them, they cannot accomplish them twice, if they have not realized why you have not solved it in such a way as to correct this injustice in full. And in that part, I might even support this law, but I can't support it because it's never good to correct one small injustice makes one huge injustice, and this law seems to be an injustice to all the unemployed at the Employment Office under a few things that are pronounced as having to be passed. This is the resolution of these administrative irregularities, etc. Here's precisely because they're going to be the weakest to be further abolished. I can't support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4736	Thank you. We've got a correction to the incorrect allegations, Attorney Gordana Sobol. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4737	Just in the end, my colleague you say it's a small injustice which then comes to some great injustice. That little injustice you're talking about, it's not a small injustice, it's one of the biggest injustices the government has ever done in one category. It happened that these were women, and you did so and you kept silent and bureaucratic about it, regardless of the warning that came and during the debate on the Pension Insurance Act, and right after that there was still time not to talk today about 222 women staying out of this system completely. So it's not about any minor injustice, it's about one of the greatest injustices the government has done.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4738	Thank you. We have two replicas. Mr. Silvano Hrelja's representative signed up for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4739	Dear Mrs. Lovrin, you yourself said that you did not understand mathematics but that you also read article 47 of the existing law and article 1 of the amendment and supplemental article then you would realize that it was a monthly income that must not be passed so far by 2700 kuna with unemployment benefits, and from now on 1560 kuna with unemployment benefits, which means that someone who has an agreement on a job to clean the stairs at 1000 kuna per month could do so neatly and from now on can receive unemployment benefits. So there's no dilemma, there was just going to be more justice towards those who work for the monthly salary 8 hours a day at the workplace and in the employment ratio of 2200 kuna. I think it's the first order of priorities, monthly wages and employment, and not in any way supporting the state of unemployment. And secondly, you can't say that what happens to these women who are three, six, nine, or twelve months of amendments and additions to the law have lost the right to compensation that this is a small thing. It's a huge thing. They are existentially threatened and eventually retire with 20.4% reduction. I think we all need to objectively look at this situation and that this is a really big mistake not because of your intentions, but because of the firm conduct of red tape you didn't force and you could have solved this problem with one of the minister's instructions. Because it was so possible, it was so elegantly possible to solve this problem that you can't even imagine how elegant it was. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4740	Thank you. The next line came from Madam Representative Ada Damianac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4741	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I just wanted my colleague, Lovrin, to say that it's a little offensive that we're going to use political commissioners in the competitions. Is that what my colleague Lovrin was alluding to? Perhaps they used brigades before in the election of directors and all the others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4742	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, representative of Mrs. Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4743	Madam MPs, I have alluded to the fact that the choice in the public tender is transparent, that this government, when it came, has abolished the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest of the public tender provisions signed in Chapter 20. And third because she said she was responsible for the government, that she wanted to point out by herself who would be in which administration and company. That's probably how he'll show for the deputy now, too, but it's less important for me to answer you. I would like to answer that I failed to get a representative of the Hrelja and Sobol MPs over a little injustice. I apologize, lapus. I meant the smaller number. It didn't occur to me that I would tell women a team that's been cut off and anyone who's been cut off in their right to say it's a little bit. No, no, I compared to a small number of people compared to a new injustice that seems to be compared to thousands of people registered at the Employment Service who receive compensation. And my math, I'm going to do a good study of all these articles, but I think my math stands because it's on the annual level according to Article 47.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4744	Thank you. We're done with an individual discussion. On behalf of the promoter, Minister Miranda Mrsic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4745	Dear Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I'm sorry we're not talking about these women who lost their right to cash and fell on a beggar stick. And when we talk about big and small injustices, then every injustice is equal, and these are exactly two equal things. We are talking about 2252 unemployed who were temporarily left out of the 2009 record, 2222 2010, 2032 2011. This is 0.064% of the total employee population. So I don't think we're talking about any injustice because no injustice has been done. Only with this change tried to say that we put everything in the same relationship that there are no more or less privileged, and the greatest injustice, I'm sorry that you said a little injustice, an injustice that is unforgivable is that we are those 222 women. And if we hadn't made this 2,300 women, which is an injustice would have fallen on a beggar stick and not 3 months, but 6 months, 9 months, etc. It's an injustice. And I'm sorry you won't support this law. But everyone has a right to their own opinion and thinking. Politically, sometimes it's not good to be stubborn about some attitudes. I say in a number of attempts, and in this House, it's tried to get rid of itself because of the hard stand that there's no money. There's money when there's the right thing to do, and there's no money to throw at other expensive things, and there's no money to rationalize the system that spends money, and that's why we're going into these administrative council changes. When it comes to publications, publications are published regularly. So, the publications of the Employment Office will be 31.1. will be 29.2. and all of these others so statistics can be seen as well. But obviously when you look at the website of the Employment Office, then you look at only the figure, and you can't see that it's possible to get all the statistics that are possible about the number of unemployed, places where they come from, about how many months have been employed, etc. So the system is transparent, the system is visible. As far as the Governing Council is concerned, it will continue to function as it functioned as an administrative body. As far as the principal is concerned, he continues to be elected as he was elected, meaning, based on the cabinet's bid, the minister proposes to the government, and the government proposes to the director. As far as deputies are concerned, we believe that this is how we can optimise the entire system, because the whole system costs over 2 billion kuna. Therefore, this system should be used in the best possible way, and we should not again do what was done before to serve to improve the image of a particular party and to reduce the number of fictitious unemployed just to show that this is not some terrible number. Yeah, we don't think it's a scary number, that we shouldn't be afraid of it, but that we need to work to get rid of it and create as many new jobs as possible, and that the more people get jobs. And you should look at another figure, you should look at the number of the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, which is already visible today, and that is the number of employees in the Republic of Croatia and you should look at that figure and you should work on that number because then the number of unemployed will be reduced. On the other hand, it is clear that the aid for the unemployed, which is about a billion and a half kuna, will still be. We don't intend to reduce any fees, we don't intend to abolish any rights because unemployed pensioners are people on whom we don't build or stabilise the system or build rationalization. There are many other places where we can do this, and on the other hand in the budget one of the items that has been increased by 27% are active employment measures. It's not employment, active employment measures, it's not new employment, it's the preparation of people that are unemployed to get into the labour market of young people to get a year's work experience so they can get a job and that those who are already 10 years unemployed are standing at home and have forgotten at all how it is that they have a chance to get a job, to push them into this area of work and to hire them in some way. And that's why these public works serve with hope and a desire that these people who work for three or six months might get a chance with that employer or someone else to get a job after 10 years of sitting at home. So that's the policy that's being run in this government. So, active policy towards the problem, not hiding your head in the sand. And I'm sorry that obviously HDZ doesn't want to solve the problem of 2,000 women who, without this change of law, would be on the street begging for bread.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4746	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. On the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment and Rights Intervention Act, we will vote when the conditions are met. My colleagues and colleagues, we're done. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 p.m. with the point Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Forests, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 46. Goodbye and good night!
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4747	We move to a statement on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Employment Intervention and Rights Act, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 42, the debate is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership and the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labour-Stranka Work. I'm asking the government's representative to come forward with the amendments. So first if you have before you, the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership which has four amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4748	Four amendments to the Labour Committee shall be adopted. I'll take it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4749	And we have an amendment to the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Labour Party, so one amendment to Article 15.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4750	The government does not accept the amendment for the reason that the majority of women already retired by this amendment and cannot be re-applyed and neither are the funds provided for in the 2012 budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4751	Thank you very much. On behalf of the amendment promoter, Mr Dragutin Lesar will declare himself. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4752	So this law corrects one of the injustices for women who have spent 55 years of their lives due to an extension of time to leave for early retirement, loses the right to the Employment Office. And it's good that this law intervenes and corrects I would say even a system error, but it's not a good thing that you don't accept this amendment that applied to those women who have been retired since 1.11.2010, have been losing their right in the last year for 3 months, in this year 6 months for compensation. A million and something kuna should have been allocated in the budget when these former ones were not, and you could have repaired one failure of the system first legislative and other meaningless solutions of the Employment Service which does not say that they are receiving benefits from obtaining terms of retirement but birthdays there have been an error of the system. And secondly, that the reverse effect of a certain provision of the law is constitutional. Five minutes ago, the Parliament found by voting the facts of another law that justified cases of certain provisions of the law could have a return to action. So you said those 200 and some women who fell through a hole in the system aren't very important and that's why we're asking for a vote to see is or isn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-22-0.u4753	Thank you very much. I then invite you to make a manual statement about the amendment of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party. Who's in? The amendment did not receive the required majority, so it was not accepted. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, let's get involved and vote. Thank you. I find that most of the votes, 89 for, 35 versus and 2 abstentions, have been adopted by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment Intervention and Rights Act during unemployment in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted. So let's go to Let's go to - Final bill on the Energy and Investment Monitoring Centre, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 45 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by three committees: the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Economy and the Committee on Environment Protection. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? There is Deputy Minister of Economy Ms Tamara Obradovic Mazal. Here you go.
