ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12924	Dear MPs and respected MPs can continue the work and session of the Croatian Parliament. I propose that we move towards a set agenda, now it is up to the final draft law on criteria for participation in tripartite bodies and representativeness for collective bargaining, second reading, P.Z. No. 96. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Proposal for an act received into boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of laws, Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. You may submit amendments until the end of the debate, in accordance with Article 164(4). Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership. You received reports from those working bodies at the session. Does the Government's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Minister of Labour and Pension System Mr Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12925	Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. In front of you is the Final Proposal for a Law on criteria for participation in tripartite bodies and representativeness for collective bargaining. The need for the adoption of this law came from a negotiating process which detected that social partners in Croatia, especially trade unions, are not sufficiently prepared for social dialogue at European level. Since this law changes the union scene, 6 years ago when it was first discussed, it was agreed that the proposal regulatory between the rooms would be agreed by the union centres. Because this is a law that regulates the relationship between unions and employers. As union centres advocated, and still advocated completely different concepts and criteria, the Ministry of Labour and Pension System announced in early February this year that it would try to reach a consensus. And that if that is not possible in the procedure, they will send a compromise solution that is now in front of you. The government then said that we would try to bring the law into line at the highest possible level, meaning it would be about 80% somewhere and that for those parts of the law that we cannot agree the government would take responsibility for. This government takes responsibility for its decisions, makes its decisions, decisions are very clear, transparent and this is an example of how we, I hope the law will be passed, if we succeed in the final draft of the law. This law has been passed for 15 years, obviously it has not been passed. A few years ago, the government tried to pass this law with HDZ. The bill was good, however, obviously there was no political will to bring it to the parliament. So we have proposed the law is now in the second reading and for all those amendments, constructive remarks that will come from your side, we will consider them and if they comply with the intensity of the law, and with the legal solutions we will respect them. Let me remind you of just one fact, that so far in Croatia, until today, and every day that number changes, 534 unions, 24 unions are registered. According to the latest 2009 census, 423 964 members are gathering. Which concerns, because it's all about 30% of all the wounded in the Republic of Croatia, so if we assume that 1 400,000 people are employed today by various employers. The number of 4230964 is too small. It's probably something bigger after all, because as I say counting we had 2009. By passing this law, we'll have that number revised. So by passing this law, we're going to have that number right. Of the 42 sectors in which there is a bipartite sectoral dialogue at European level, only 4 sectoral social councils have been formed in Croatia, of which only 2 are at bipartite level. There are also significant differences between national representative union centres, and there are at least 8 times fewer members than the largest. And so far, some centres have only had one employee, a full-time employee. The current legislative framework prevents the rapid formation of the negotiating committees and thus makes it impossible for companies to adapt to new conditions in agreement with workers. As the counting of union members takes several months in certain sectors, the European Commission also warned of problems with collective bargaining at the latest under the Committee on Financial, Economic Affairs and Statistics. As I said when we took over this ministry, de facto, we formed a new ministry because the Ministry of Labour was gone for eight years, it was drowned in the Ministry of Economy. We were welcomed by 6 versions of this law and one of these versions was written, written by experts from the Faculty of Law with the help of experts from the international organisation of work. However, even then, despite such strong professional support, the consensus could not be achieved. Realising the importance of this law, therefore this law is part of a trinity that regulates the labour market and work in Croatia. So, the first is the Labour Act, the second is the Law on Representativeship to say briefly in collective bargaining and the third is the Law on protection at work. So these 3 laws are fundamentally regulated by the work and labour market in Croatia. We decided that we would go along a path that might be a little unusual, which means we would sit at the table, offer, not a draft law, but a work version that sublimated all the discussions in the last 15 years, all the opposing sides, all the possible versions of certain parts of the article. So from February to this day, we had 18 consultation meetings, which means almost 1 times a week, and so far we had about 23 versions of the law before we even entered the government procedure or the parliamentary procedure. We have also consulted domestic and international experts, and we have carefully followed all the recommendations of the Committee of Experts of the International Labour Organisation and the requirements of the European Social Charter. Between these two readings, we have further improved the law in line with the recommendations of the social partners and on the trail of informal consultation with experts from the International Labour Organisation because this law is extremely important and the International Labour Organisation has something to say about it. And what we are pleased that these informal consultations have shown us that we are on the right track and that this law will also contribute to the development of trade unions and the development of trade union work in Croatia. In the debate on first reading, we heard accusations that this law is unconstitutional, since it limits the right to association with the guaranteed Convention 87 of the International Labour Organisation. I firmly argue that this is not true since the Committee of Experts of the International Labour Organisation, which interprets the application of the Convention, is not considered by the trade union associations to be contrary to the principles of freedom of association if, under 1st, the confirmation of the most representative organisation based on pre-determined objective criteria is this law. Under 2nd, the distinction between the most representative organisations and other organisations is limited to certain privileged rights such as For the purpose of collective bargaining, consultation with public authority or the establishment of representatives of workers and employers at international meetings, this law is limited to collective bargaining, for example. has nothing to do with the selection of workers' representatives in the working council which was one of the questions that we received about the social partners. So this part is completely filled. Trade unions which are not considered representative and are therefore not represented by tripartite bodies or have no right to conclude collective agreements shall not be denied the right to defend the working interests of their members, to organise their own administration and to formulate their activities programmes. From the text of this law you cannot read anywhere and see that those who are not representative are limited in no part of the possibility of action. Representativeship shall be determined by an independent body with every guarantee of independence and objectivity. As you can see, the bill establishes a commission appointed by the minister but on a proposal from the social partners. So this commission is completely independent but there are representatives of one side and the other that will enable it to have absolute objectivity, therefore, and this is fulfilled. Unions have the right to judicial protection against a decision which does not recognise the status of a representative union. And it's built into this law, so it's possible to protect in court, and we said in this law that the Administrative Court should make a decision within 30 days if the union complains about the decision of the commission. So, since we meet all the criteria, this law is fully in line with the Constitution and international conventions. I also note that since this regulation deals with fundamental freedoms, the freedom of association was seen as an organic law, which means that it is adopted by an absolute majority in the assembly. We also heard that this law complicates collective negotiations, which is also not true because it is the basic starting point of this proposal that the representativeness for collective bargaining is not determined until someone challenges it. Therefore, if you have one union in one company, in one company it is automatically representative and there is no need to determine. If there are two, if there are five, if they are nine, and they can agree on a negotiating committee, there will be no representativeness. Therefore, in the event that trade unions do not agree which is unfortunately a common case in Croatia, it is then established representativeness in such a way that the representative trade union for employers or at the level for which the collective contract is concluded has at least 20% of the workers, members of the total number of trade union workers employed by the employer or employer operating in the area or level for which the collective contract is concluded. So 20% of the total union-organised members of members, therefore not of the total number of workers, but of 20% of the total union-organised members. This proposal also recognises professional trade unions because these trade unions are in Croatia we really cannot push our head into the sand and say that professional trade unions do not exist not to participate in collective bargaining and they are Croatian reality. We wanted to introduce them by this law into collective bargaining but we also wanted to disable the conclusion of professional collective agreements because we included certain fences in this law. Therefore, professional trade unions must satisfy three cumulative conditions, not either but also which means that of the total number of members, at least 75% of the members must be workers of the same profession and profession, under 2nd, that workers and professions must be directly linked from the area to which they are being negotiated, 3 that at least 40% of the employees must have the same profession and interest from the total number of not members of the trade union but workers of the same profession and interests of the employees of the employer. The trade unions have been prevented from being the only parties to collective agreements or collective agreements unless it is signed by at least one trade union that has met the general criteria. The Committee of Association experts of the International Labour Organisation has published a very clear principle that legislative interventions in the extended application of collective agreements are acceptable only in urgent cases and for short periods. Since the existing provision allows for the unlimited application of the legal rules laid down in the existing collective agreements, the existing solution is also contrary to international conventions. No. as in Article 7. The labour law defines that workers are always subject to a more favourable right to this provision so far in Croatian legislation is not considered to be a violation of the Convention. For these reasons, neither the proposed restriction on the extended application of the legal rules is contrary to that principle. Furthermore, the proposed laws continue to allow the parties to negotiate an extended application of the collective agreement, assessing that the prescribed three-month period is sufficient and appropriate for the implementation of the negotiation procedures and the conclusion of a new collective agreement, which is also not assessed as a violation of Convention 87 by experts of the International Labour Organisation. And to correct one lie that was told here from the pay phone, which should be checked before it is said, so it is said that there is only one collective contract that is in extended application. In Croatia, according to data from the collective contract register, 44 collective agreements relating to 60 companies, 12 activities, covering over 40,000 workers, have been extended. I note that these statistics refer only to collective agreements applicable to two or more counties, i.e. they are registered in the ministry. Anyone who wants to come can come check, no problem. After all, it will be on the Ministry's website very soon. I hereby clearly reject the claims that amending the rules that allow the unlimited application of collective agreements that have expired was not necessary. I will also refer to the claims that the Law on Representativeship should not have changed the provisions of the Labour Act which we do not do in this proposal, but we are terminating certain articles of the Labour Act, and the regulation that regulates and encourages collective bargaining is clearly linked to the extended application of the legal rules of the closed collective agreements, and we believe that, in a separate way, by repealing the provisions of the Labour Act that regulates this issue, we would have done great damage to all employees whose representatives would not be able to contract new collective agreements in time. When we talk about Article 27 of the final draft of the law, it makes it more clear that the extended application of the legal rules of the collective agreement has not yet expired. The relevant observation was made during the plenary debate and was adopted for the sake of a better regulation of extended application of the legal rules contained in collective agreements which have not yet expired. I would also eventually take this opportunity to announce a recent amendment to the Rules on the Recording of Corporate Contracts, which will allow for the recording of all collective agreements in one place and the public publication of collective agreements whose parties are state-owned bodies and state-owned enterprises, and on the other hand, those collective agreements for whose permission we receive from the party so that they can be published in the integrated version will also be published. And for those collective agreements for which we do not get permission on the site of the Ministry of Labour will be a collective contract for which activity and who has signed it, but it will not be an integral version, but it will be known exactly in Croatia how many collective agreements we have, and for state and public services, the text will be accurate. And we believe that this proposal will encourage the circulation and empowerment of unions and encourage them to attract new members by union work, 423964 members are far too small and this government will do everything to strengthen social dialogue, to make the social partnership a mechanism for safeguarding social peace, negotiation, where both sides will be equally valuable, where both sides will start from the same negotiating positions. As you can see, that's what's happening. There are various collective negotiations, negotiations and what we see lately that both sides approach responsibly and that they understand the economic moment of the country and that they realize that at this point we have to give up some material rights to preserve jobs, to preserve wages. I hope that the Parliament will support this law and that we will see the real effects of this law soon, and also that we will see the final effect by increasing the number of members of the union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12926	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. Do the committee rapporteurs, the working bodies of the Parliament want to take the floor? The Legislative Committee? The Committee on Labour and Social Partnership? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We are going to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the first club of Croatian Labourists and respected representative Dragutin Lesar. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12927	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Minister. First of all, the denial of the data that was presented in the first reading. I would ask you to publish the register of collective agreements in the legal application of your personal Facebook profile, as you have released the law in public debate. And I made that claim on the basis of the data that was only available to me, which was collected by the trade unions. The Web site of your ministry wasn't in use in those days, so I couldn't surf it. I ask the ministers everything in the House and I don't have any secular and different relationships and questions, and you also have to answer the questions of the MPs, and what you're writing on your personal Facebook account is just asking me... The poor unions that the government must help unite and make easier arrangements. They are indeed poor, and this is one of the arguments of the Minister for the criteria of representativeness, of course, and then at national level they introduce professional and factory trade unions. Now he'll make it easier to make a deal, you might as well think. I have said and I repeat, this law and every entry into the system of collective contracts and the material rights of employees... the effects of the public sector are being translated into the private sector. Whether it's written somewhere or not, whether it's understood by the minister or not, but it's true. The announcement of the government's negotiations with the public sector in the private sector began to cancel collective agreements, to offer workers contracts on working with modified content, to reduce material rights, with the reason that the state is doing the same for its own. These interventions are due to the public sector, however silent this is, the truth and the problems the government has in negotiations with the unions. There will be no collective agreements in the private sector because the collective contract in the public sector will also be ensnared with reduced or abolished certain rights to be transferred to the private sector. No adequate surveillance. The labour inspection system in Croatia is not sufficiently trained to respond quickly and effectively to the lack of rights, and the system of working courts has not been established, does not act as a whole and the problem of working trial is not in this mandate of the Parliament or the principles. You accuse us of only criticizing, but you don't listen to our suggestions and warnings. You say you have to do everything. You set yourself deadlines to recover the state in May, then in June, then in September, and now in March next year. No one forced you on those deadlines. You gave it to yourself. But the direction you're going and this law is a step forward into the neoliberal capitalism that you're doing under pressure. And all the laws you've prepared so far and the model of this economic recovery are in favour of the banking and financial sector. And they will continue to be the only ones in the country to make a profit. Workers are redundant, in the public sector we need to facilitate dismissal, in the private sector we need to facilitate dismissal, in the public sector the layoff of workers is called restructuring. And when the workers hear the word restructuring, they ask how much we're too big. What goes down with collective agreements not only now but several years ago? Retrieval on your retirement, you remember 2003. One-third of the salary per year of the internship. Cancelled deadlines halved from 2 weeks to 3 months. The right to be charged on the stock market is halved, maxed for 450 days, and the guaranteed fee is half minimum wage. Jubilee awards, travel expenses. Those workers and workers who do not accept work where their travel expenses are up to 20% of the salary they receive and have to pay a kindergarten that goes up to 40% of the wages in the store, textiles are declared by non-workers. Because the travel expenses in the private sector are gone, travel expenses. Regres for vacation is leaving. The gift of the children goes away. 13 salaries that we introduced to Croatia in the 1990s, called Christmas Eve because it was easier to accept the then government, the Christmas Day instead of 13 salaries leaving. Nightly, overtime and holiday work after the collapse of collective agreements can be increased by 1 lip per hour, as there is no provision in the Labour Act except that an increased fee must be paid, and an increased fee is one June. Labour contracts have disappeared indefinitely and there are only contracts in place. The average salary in a month fell from 5460 to 5403 kuna as long as we kept quiet about it. The lowest salary, the minimum salary from the initial 395 average salary in 2008 fell to 36% of the average salary as much as the government kept silent about it again is the correct data. And that inflation last month was 3.9%, in the last 2.6% is also a little pulsism and demagogy because we laborers can't do it without it. Meanwhile, the law on Mrsic's volunteers, of course, came into force, who are eager to get a job for 1600 kuna, and those who were expecting or waiting for a job secure with the contract now receive an offer to volunteer. At least twenty of them appear to be very happy and happy now. What else has gone or can go? The salary allowance per year of past work was 0.5. Is that gonna stay? Whether it shrinks or completely shuts down. That's 15 things workers have lost over the past few years. That's 15 seductions and the workers are asking what else can you take from us? Tell us what else you can take from us, what else you can take from the labour rights system. Of course, release when, who and how he wants in the private sector and restructuring in the public sector. The sixteenth was a serious problem in Croatia when two basic general collective agreements for the economy and the public sector ceased to apply in the mid-1990s, but the problem was that the Croatian Chamber of Commerce was deprived of the right to collective bargaining, as well as the partners for a general collective contract in the economic and private sector, except at the beginning of the development of the Croatian Employers' Association. If such a model of representativeness is introduced and the government really wants not only to increase the union organisation of workers, but also their coverage of collective agreements, then 5 proposals not for now, it is too late. The union's representativeness through the union centers will stimulate unions to team up. Collective contracts at national level. And only if they are meant to be lower than that because the factory trade unions and the corporate collective agreements that you have and in the public sector are the death of a union movement and the lack of supervision and influence on the state of the social partners' labour market. And why, and when the yellow unions are created, and today they are, unfortunately, I guess no one should be given a decision. Third, sanctions or penalties for both sides. Not joining collective bargaining for employers means extending the application of legal rules, and for trade unions to stop at the moment when they do not enter into negotiations for a new collective agreement. The two sides must be aware that they must join the negotiations. As part of the Economic and Social Council, through a code or rule, it shall prevent collective negotiations from being delayed. It must not be prescribed by law. And fifth, the removal of the labour code. It is only then that the system of collective agreements can be assessed that there are foundations to expand, cultivate, stimulate, encourage and develop them. The socially sensitive government is very concerned or should stand in that not 30% but at least 70% of employees are covered by collective agreements, and that any possibility of stretching the decision of the Minister of Labour of the collective contract, which has already covered more than 50% of employees in a given branch or activity, extends to all employees because it is in the social interest of both workers and state and employers. That is five proposals that can be seriously considered in the future. I note, after the collapse of collective agreements and their sluice, the existing Labour Act cannot survive. Either Mr. Minister, change the Labour Act or take a measure from the '90s, which is general, somewhere you called it, basic collective agreements that will be signed by the Association of Employers called the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and which will cover all employees in the private sector. There's no third. And these two, three last minutes, I'm going to address the HDZ Representatives Club. I don't know how you're gonna set up with this law, but I remind you of three important things. 23 November 2010. The government of the Republic of Croatia signed an agreement with the unions, in which it made three promises. This law does not implement any of them. First, the legal rules of collective agreements will be worth a year, not three months, as proposed in this law. Secondly, it will change the system and leave the Institute of Labour in favour of collective agreements. This law doesn't offer that. Thirdly, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the union centre will encourage and propose to employers the opening of negotiations on the General collective agreement. If you're staying with this, and there were good suggestions, you can't support this law. You must help us achieve all three objectives of this agreement, especially with regard to general collective agreements. And it's no coincidence that the union scene is what it is, that the deal can't happen and therefore the collective contracts of certain activities are compromised. By returning, unfortunately, my personal on general collective agreements, we are patching up the incompetence of the union movement, but we are also affecting the current behaviour of employers' associations that have contributed to this situation. Five clear proposals, so if the government is to change anything in that direction and wants to do good to the workers, I will seriously consider them, although I doubt that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12928	Thank you very much. The next club is the SDP Club in the Croatian Parliament and a respected representative of Gordana Sobol. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12929	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister and Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Final Proposal of the Law on criteria for participation in tripartite bodies and representativeness for collective bargaining. And right at the beginning, on behalf of the club, I'm going to say one sentence. This government will not, like all those before it, pretend that it does not see problems, push these problems under the carpet, and what is even worse, leave unresolved problems for some future governments. And in that sense, as a SDP club, we support the adoption of this law here today at second reading. I think on behalf of the SDP club, the message would be that it might be better if we all just started and acted out together in such a way that the problems that are huge, big and hard start finally in this country and solve them, and not leave them to someone else as if it were going to solve our current situation. As we highlighted in our first reading on behalf of the club, Croatia, like other countries, is seeking to regulate capital and labour relations in the best possible way through laws, collective agreements, collective bargaining, through the assessment of union representativeness as one of the participants in collective bargaining. So far, this area has been regulated by the Law on how to determine the representation of multi-level union associations in tripartite bodies at the national level of '99. the years, and the rights of workers and employers to free organisation and association and the right to collective bargaining with the Labour Law. This bill, which today in the second reading before us, is actually as the minister said and pointed out after years of attempts at actually various proposals and attempts to agree, agreements, etc., finally in this form it came before us here to the Parliament. In Croatia, just slightly more than 30% or about 424 thousand workers are organized into unions. The figure spoke of 534 trade unions and 24 trade unions with an obvious difference between the state and public and private sectors, and in particular there is little trade union membership among small employers. A low level of established criteria and non-compliance with existing legal criteria to determine the representativeness of trade unions at national level enable trade unions to be represented in national tripartite bodies with a significantly different number of members and different capacity for social dialogue. The low-level criteria for representation for the consequence were significant fragmented unions and their multi-level associations, the union's joint appearance towards employers and the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the difficult functioning of the Economic and Social Council, the reduction of the number of union members, the unsettled relationship between trade unions. We believe that another moment is very important for the adoption of this law, and this is Croatia's EU accession negotiation process itself. As the minister pointed out in Croatia, bipartite social dialogue is at an extremely low level, especially at the border level. Croatian trade unions have not been cross-borderly profiled and strengthened to effectively engage in European social dialogue and participation in European sectoral social councils. According to 42 sectors where bipartite sectoral dialogues exist at European level in Croatia, only four have been formed. In the European Union, border unions are extremely strong, their representativeness is not questionable, and often this area is not regulated by law in these countries. But in Croatia, this law also has the task of encouraging union association based on the same interests of certain activities in order to effectively participate our social partners in the European social dialogue. Furthermore, on behalf of the SDP club, we will submit a number of amendments, there are 9, which we will propose to the government to consider and adopt. I will not read them in detail now, but they refer to the improvement, as we believe, and the clarification of the additional article 5,8,9,10,11,12,15,16 and 17, which all go towards further strengthening and now agreed with the international organisation's views. Namely, the Committee of Experts of the International Labour Organisation as well as the requirements of the European Social Charter. I think they should be read once again, namely, which requires the most representative organisations to be identified on pre-determined, precise and objective criteria. That trade unions which are not considered representative, and then will not be represented by tripartite bodies or have the right to enter into collective agreements. Nor shall they be denied the right to defend the working interests of their members, to organise their own administration and formulate their activities programmes. Furthermore, we also believe that our amendments will strengthen this requirement that representativeness determines an independent body with every guarantee of independence and objectivity. And to give unions the right to judicial protection against a decision which does not recognise the status of a representative union. So that's where the amendments are going to come from the SDP club, and we believe and hope to be adopted. As a SDP club, we also support all the changes that have been incorporated between the two readings in the Final Bill proposal, as so are the remarks that have been made by individual speakers, as well as by the parliamentary authorities. And finally, as for the abolition of certain provisions of the second law, that is, the Labour Act, as I repeat in my first reading, we believe that this can and must be an additional incentive to collective bargaining. We now have a situation where there are a number of collective agreements, the minister said at the moment 44, which are concluded at a time of economic growth, wage growth and thus material rights, which are no longer respected on today's economic occasions. But since collective agreements that are in extended application cannot be cancelled, of course, with all that then and logically, there is no Union interest to conclude a new one. When everyone is aware that these new contracts are likely to mean a reduction of certain rights, even if it is time-limited for a period of time while the current economic situation in Croatia is as it is. Now, on behalf of the SDP Club, once again, I call on the government to accept the amendments to the club, and as a club, we will vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12930	Thank you very much, esteemed MP. At your presentation, we have a registered correction of the incorrect allegations and a respected representative of Jadranka Kosor. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12931	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, I want to correct Mrs. Sobol's incorrect quote. I quote: "The last government has been pushing problems under the carpet, and this government is going to sovereignly solve these problems.". I'm going to talk to you about the government I ran. This law that we are discussing today, and the problem of collective agreements and their extended application, is an indicator that the past government has been keenly seeking to solve problems, and the opposition led the SDP to push its head into the sand. Namely, the problem of extended collective agreements we tried to resolve by amending the Labour Act and no one then forced the Prime Minister, today's and then the opposition leader, Mr Milanovic, to run to sign against the amendments to the Labour Act. We were saying then the same thing we hear at the pay phone today, so collective agreements can't be worth the same when GDP is growing 5% or 6% and then 5% falls. We have proposed changes in the severe crisis and lost due to the shortsighted policy of the SDP, lost valuable 3 years, Mr Vice President, but this has also been shown in other examples of amendments to the Pension Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12932	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12933	For which Mr Milanovic said he would return everything back to its old age when he came to power, and as we can see, it is not good that it is not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12934	Thank you, too. Next up is the IDS club and the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12935	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. I think more or less we've heard of the occasion, here's the HDZ's position through Mrs. Kosor's words, we've heard the SDP's attitude, the Labourist. So here's my predecessors, we heard the minister, almost everything they said. Yes, it's true, we spoke even more last year when exactly in the opposition we signed this union petition. Some points, after 750 thousand citizens signed the petition, were lost by the then government, it is clear, in the elections that followed several months later. Here we see now that it hasn't been a month and the position of the new government now is similar to that of the former government. I'm sure there's no one in this assembly that there's no one in the government, that there's no one in society who, if clearly, could give anything to solve this social picture of employment. There is no one who would give anything, but absolutely anything to improve, also these blood pictures of the Croatian economy. Unfortunately, sometimes these two things simply cannot be moved. And here I wrote down, when the minister addressed the introduction, about said that this law has been passed for 15 years, he said it was really brave, I quote literally: "The HDZ law was good.", should have said almost good, not very good. In Croatia, the minister says 534 unions have been registered, says we have 423 thousand union members, which is about 30% of the total number of workers, which are unionally, meaning organised. Says this law regulates the labour market, which is correct. Clearly in the Labour Act, that is, with this Labour Protection Act, says this law will contribute to trade union work and all this is true but was particularly an accurate description of these economic conditions in the Republic of Croatia. Afterwards Mr. Lesar spoke of neoliberalism, he said that workers become redundant in the public sector, although it is called restructuring, in private he says it is dismissal, and Mrs. Sobol said that we do not have the right to push our head into the sand or to push problems under the carpet. And indeed it's also true that we don't have any real problems leaving anyone else behind. Today, which we are today in 11.7.2012, which was similar in that period and in 2011, you simply don't know which death to die from. Today, trade unions, as we know, operate exclusively in state services or in these large privatized systems. They're almost gone somewhere, and it's not good, even though in small companies I claim there's no big difference between employers and workers. I claim that often in these small companies are those craftsmen, and craftsmen, etc. Those little merchants might be in a worse position than the workers themselves. I absolutely agree that order must be, the state must get its own, the workers must get theirs and something should one day get these little employers too. Big privatised companies don't need to worry too much, although I'm guessing today isn't the way they were yesterday either. And indeed, when we read and list the press today, we see about where Croatia is today. Just yesterday, Željko Rohatinski said about 4.6% of GDP will be a deficit for central state. The deficit will say 15.9 billion kuna. In the government, they count on about $11.5 billion. He says so in this newsletter, Mr. Rohatinski, that in this year we can expect a GDP decline of about 1.6%. When I talked about it here, everyone laughed at me. I used to say 1.5%, but let's let it go now. To this fall or to that fall, the 2009 GDP is better said. From a minus 6.8% decline in 2010 of cca 2%, last year the decline was 0.25 this year on all these declines we have an additional 1.6% GDP drop or in 4 years GDP in this country will fall by about 12 to 13%. If we lose second year part of the CEFTA market from the moment Croatia enters the EU clearly, this trend can continue in 2013. or as Mr. Linic here is just before I read in the Globe about saying that in this country "it's definitely an emergency, and next year it could be even harder". So if that is the case, we will have in these five years a GDP decline of at least 15% compared to 2008 and in this context we should follow this law as well. I agree, maybe someone from today's position, yesterday's authorities will be liquefied, so you've come to ours, but this law doesn't define politics for me. This law at this point determines the described economic reality and that's actually the point. That those most in this country will bear the highest price, I suppose, is clear to all of us. I mean, first of all, employees, pensioners, etc. And so this law can be read. All right, they don't have anything to do with this law. Did I sign that petition a year ago? I did. I'm not in front of the cameras, but I am in recognition of that policy and the expression of the fight against one policy, to be completely open. But when it comes to the wall and we've come to a break-in somewhere, we're here somewhere, then they're passing these "unpopular laws". And that's the point. Could it be a blow to the union scene that Mr. Lesar was talking about? Well, it can, but I want to believe that it wasn't the legislator's intention, as I believe it was not even the intention of the former government. I've been following the occasion in Istria these days. It's not good. We get down four years in a row, employment goes down two years in a row. In 2008, we had an investment of 3.3 billion kuna, last year only 1.7 billion kuna. This year there is no continuation of the Istrian Ipsilon, investments if last year we had 1.7 billion kunas this year may not reach a billion 300, a billion 400 million kunas. Loss is getting bigger, blockades are a regular occurrence. No one hears in the state administration about these little people and just doesn't talk about this law, but it's kind of just covering up the problems they're dealing with. I know that all these problems are economic, social, etc. Recovery, the economy in this country cannot resolve this law. This law won't help these small companies either. From this law, the greatest "benefit" can have public systems and large privatised companies. I agree here. And there's Lesar right too. And now let's not talk about being this law from the criteria of representativeness of employers' associations, higher levels, then representativeness of union associations, etc. The criteria of the union's representativeness for collective bargaining, I will mention one example of how it looks in practice and today's practice, and I quote this particular negotiation between Konzum and their trade unions, and then it is said among other things that "unofficially we do not want to comment on anything until the contract is signed that a five-year collective contract for more than 12,000 Konzum workers could be signed by the end of July by 5 500. Although the employer has requested that the transport costs be reduced to up to 700 kuna, the jubilee prizes be reduced to untaxable amounts, we learn that the payments for transport will not be touched as the jubilee prizes will be reduced," etc. And that's what I'm saying for a consummation that has almost a monopoly on the market, which has 30% or holds, controls 30% of that store. So then he says that in May, trade traffic in Croatia fell in real terms 4.4% compared to the same month of the previous year and it is more of a decline in consumption than economists expected. On average, they expected 3.9%. This is one situation, for example, in that store and where one consumer's income increased compared to last year by 5.1%. I don't know how much money they get. So this income-growing consummation, it doesn't have to mean some big savings, etc., but we'll make it easy for them. But being gentlemen with those little merchants, that's the pain of Jesus. There are no organized unions there, though. The fact is that workers in Croatia are best protected in public services, it is simply a fact. The fact is also that workers in these large privatised companies are approximately protected at the level of public services, and in small companies most employed at this time in the Republic of Croatia around 700 thousand people are almost not even socially protected and that true happiness is if these people are paid in one way or another. I said, there's about 700 thousand people working in these small companies right now. Who's gonna take care of these people? They are well aware not only of the location of Croatia but also of the whereabouts of their employers, i.e. the companies from which the bread is made. These people are certainly not jealous of the protection of this public sector, but they know simply that they can hardly dream. One word, understood. In this country, one economic trend needs to be changed, from decline to growth. I'm sure everyone would if they could, they'd give this government as well as she was prepared and she passed, that's clear, we all want the best. Not good, we all hope well, but once again I will paraphrasise or quote Mr. Linic who said that in this country, and it is about the Minister of Finance, it is almost an emergency. He said without that over, it's a state of emergency, and other years could be even worse. And indeed, it is not necessary to envy this government for having passed such laws, but I am convinced that most MPs will support this Law on criteria for participation in tripartite bodies and representativeness for collective bargaining.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12936	Thank you very much. The correct incorrect statement, the respected representative Nikola Vuljanić, has been reported to your presentation. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12937	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In his otherwise honest presentation, Mr. Caine said one flosscule that doesn't stand. When you get to the wall, unpopular moves are drawn. No, when it comes to the wall, brave moves are drawn, moves that are promised to their voters in the election campaign. It's another scam. Let's look up to the French prime minister... who's made some bold moves now, the ones he promised. He put the burden of the crisis where the crisis occurred. We're in no condition to do that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12938	Thank you very much. The next club is the HDSSB club and the respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12939	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. In front of us is the final draft law on criteria for participation in tripartite bodies and representativeness for collective bargaining, and since here is the ruling, as Mrs Sobol said on behalf of the SDP club, they do not want to put things under the rug really need to look at the current situation in Croatia because this law is definitely related to it, I would not say even more complex economic social situation in the Republic of Croatia but it is extremely difficult for most citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Especially for those 350 thousand unemployed, for nearly 60,000 workers who work and have not yet received their salary for nearly six months, for nearly a million pensioners who no longer survive but are vegetarian. The picture of Croatia is marked by numerous bankruptcys, the fall in economic activity, the fall in industrial production, the fall in standards, the increase in imports, the increase in total internal and external debt, the increase in all prices, the increase in VAT, the increase in energy prices, the announcement of new cancellations, and all of this is spiced by party and party staffing and employment. But let us first of all go back to this law, to the very reasons why this law is being passed. And first of all, it is also necessary to conclude one fact that this bill opposes all trade unions in the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Employers' Association, and it is European practice and we are looking for Europe and we will enter the European Union if everyone ratifys a pre-accession contract or accession contract, that the regulations relating to the representativeness of trade unions and employers are passed with the consent of all social partners, not by revote and through knee, which this government is about to do with the votes of party machinery and the majority in the Croatian Parliament. Certain articles of this proposal seek to regulate the issue of extended application of the legal rules laid down in collective agreements whose importance has expired, and to that end, the non-application of a more favourable law institute is foreseen. I recall and will also raise the question to Mr. Minister, whether he as well as Mr. Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, as I did, was one of those 717149 recognised signatures and numbered signatures of Croatian voters who asked for a referendum to be called with the question whether you were in favour of retaining existing legal provisions on the extended application of the legal rules contained in collective agreements and cancelling collective agreements. So, I know very well why I gave my signature back then on a petition of the union but apparently neither the Prime Minister nor the minister may have known why they were signing at the time but today, in any case, they're breaking that signature they put on the request for a referendum. It may also have to be recalled that social dialogue in Europe, although it has been developing more intensively since the 1990s that it had its initials in the 1950s when, in 1952, under the auspices of the European Coal and Steel Community, employers and employees participated in talks and consultations on a tripartite basis, and in 1985, when the President of the European Commission, Jacques Delor, began to develop more strongly bipartite dialogue between social partners but only in 1991, through the adoption of the social protocol in Mastricht, European social partners had the first opportunity to participate directly in the negotiations, in framework agreements which the Council of the European Union subsequently transposed into a directive or national social partners independently implement. It is this possibility that the European social dialogue can become a driver of social Europe that has become the main force in the second half of the 1990s that social dialogue is rapidly developing within certain sectors, but also at a tripartite level. This is also shown by the objectives of the European Trade Union Confederation. One of the priorities is certainly greater Europe, i.e. greater social Europe and the right among other things to what most Croatian trade unions advocate today. As the law says, as the current Croatian government says, so I quote certain statements from the Croatian government that the Croatian trade union scene has not changed at all. The unions are split. The differences between membership and beyond are great, there is no unity and efficiency and who now appears to save Croatia's union scene as the savior of the neo-liberal Kukuriku Government that has decided to change and fix what the trade unions fail to achieve. But the government has obviously forgotten that throughout the history of union action, the laws do not regulate issues that are in the exclusive jurisdiction of the union. The fact is that our unions do not have such a long historical tradition, so they often allow themselves to call on the government to regulate some issues in order to help them. The laws relating to trade union property should be remembered, the way all union property became state property overnight, etc. etc. What we've been looking at for a long time and what we've been discussing today, which is that the union representation issue will eventually be resolved by such a bad law, for which some legal professionals who are related to workers' rights, trade union rights are assessed both by anti-constitutional and anti-civilization. Therefore, when adopting this law, above all all all all social partners should take care to establish a legal framework, not to propose very detailed, so the provisions that are practically tasked with breaking trade union activity in Croatia, which opens another new chapter, one of the new pages of the current government's neoliberal aspirations with SDP. It should not be forgotten that organizing union workers is not just a national issue. I will not use the word internationally because it is not an international issue but an international issue, and that trade unions must be allowed to act in accordance with the provisions of the International Labour Organisation, and even in cases where these same trade unions under this extremely bad law will not be representative. Whether it will contribute to the homogenisation of the union scene or on the contrary to the lack of membership, I believe that such a poorly written law can only go into homogenising the union scene as well as above all. But the number of members and the number of members should still be left as autonomy for all trade unions operating in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. So, in a little less than a year, we are becoming a full member of the European Union, so the message should also be sent to the trade unions, but not by such a law, but above all, and what the European Commission also requires but also by common sense and sound logic to the social partners' dialogue. Today, in any case, you should not forget that unions are not what they were during the dungeon of the Croatian people of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia through which you purchased onions, winters, potatoes, went possibly to the sea, to the resorts of the workers, etc. rather than above all, unions today play a more significant, far more important role than those customs of socialism. In fact, they must protect the Labour Act, but they must also protect above all the rights of those who live from their work. The constant reduction of rights, therefore, is the fact that we are shut down by announcing new cancellations. 2700 workers will lose their jobs in the Croatian railways, restructuring is conducted exclusively by people, workers intellectuals become an exclusive cost and are being broken down by restructuring not by those who come through political similarity and changing in most cases experts. This was also yesterday in Osijek where the director of Croatian Waters was replaced and replaced, I also said yesterday, which is a top European expert on the issue, and was replaced by a hotel director who has exclusive connections with the water economy because he opened the tap in the morning probably when he shaved or flushed water. Thus, in any case, he cannot fight for the increase and have care for the workers. Therefore, the constant reduction of the rights pursued by this Croatian government is a constant threat to workers and their representatives in trade unions, which is a lasting uncertainty with the application of a standard form of behaviour. Maximum profit increases in this case saves with a reduction in the expenditure on the payroll by firing workers, reduction of labour rights and reduction of wages. Today, it is hard to fight in an efficient way against this neoliberal vision because this government is primarily this neoliberalism, and I particularly think of a party that is still socially democratic, and from the social democracy in its programme there is nothing left, so I suggest that instead of the SDP keys you simply call NLPH which means the neoliberal party of Croatia. After all, Prime Minister Milanovic said he was neoliberal. Because the adoption of this law also shows that the government's neoliberal character is being seen, and let's not forget that neoliberalism aims to destroy the social state, and that this government is increasingly keeping the interests of those whose workers, trade unions and social economic dialogue are in the last place from day to day. I will end up with the lyrics of a famous rocker from a new wave that reminds us of the situation today in Croatia. "Gdanjsk in the '80s, newspaper lines, independent unions, protection committees. Gdanjsk in the '80s, steamed factories, twice not sending tanks to the workers, tanks to us." Even though we're sending in special forces and special police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12940	Thank you, too. We also have on your exhibit a single correction of an incorrect allegation and that of a respected representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12941	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So on behalf of the HDSSB club, counterpart Vinkovic said they didn't know what they were signing. They knew exactly what they were signing just because they rerouted the referendum issue to something else. And what a response to the unions today, those who were far greater and more severe in the economic and economic crisis because in 2009 and 2010, it was more difficult and dangerous than today convinced workers that they would give it all to them. Today, they cut them off, their rights are lifted, they're up 20%, they're up 30%, they're firing the workers, and that's the answer to the unions for those few signatures that they've easily accepted in 2010. And that's also an easy message to all unions no matter how they organize themselves tomorrow and what representativeness it was don't let politics near you because the workers will only lose from it all together. And the SDP has once again cast what they didn't expect.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12942	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Zoran Vinkovic found elements of the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Let's hear who hurt the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12943	Article 214, my colleague Shuker said I didn't know what I was signing. I knew, but apparently he didn't know the president of the current government and probably the minister because they wouldn't propose such a law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12944	And what is the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Your Honor?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12945	So if he said Vinkovic didn't sign and he didn't know what he was signing then he insulted me. This is set out in Article 214. So I knew what I was signing, but apparently the Prime Minister didn't know what he was signing. Or he was collecting cheap political points.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12946	Dear Representative Shuker, don't insult the other MPs. ... The feeling of insult determines no one else but to whom it is directed. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I can't do that... No, thank you very much. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We've finished that debate. Let's move on. Dear Representative Đuro Popiac and the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12947	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Here we are facing the Final Proposal of the Law on criteria for participation in tripartite bodies and representativeness for collective bargaining, which is essentially a series of serious changes in the labour market. Which is basically defined by the Labour Act. The labour law is a fundamental act which defines and regulates labour market relations between the employer and the employer. This is an act that is equally important for workers, but also for employers and for this reason it is totally unacceptable for some new laws to regulate areas from the labour market, and not by fundamental law, which is the Labour Act. The complexity and sensitivity of labour market relations, as well as the character of the labour market, whether it is rigid or flexible, whether it chokes or promotes economic freedoms, whether it encourages or restricts employment can significantly affect the success or failure of national economies. It is therefore more than ever necessary for such activities to be carried out in agreement and dialogue between all stakeholders on both a bipartite and a tripartite basis. We see that despite the objections made by both trade unions and employers and in the preparation of the law and during the first reading, the Government deafens and sends almost the same proposal to the second reading. This bill has not been adopted by either the Croatian Employers' Association, nor the union centres, and it is obvious that without the consent of the social partners, the government violently imposes unacceptable solutions on them. All union centres have expressed their negative views on the conclusions of the Economic and Social Council of the only one, the only one who has been held through isolated opinions, and they differ significantly between them. It just confirms that the government is essentially additionally weak and uniting the union scene. That's how we're witnessing these days when we're monitoring the course of government negotiations and public service unions. As much as Minister Mrsic tried to cloud the state of negotiations with a repeated phrase that this government would not negotiate under the table, although he never said once who was doing it and when he was dragging under the table. I took a lot of part in various negotiations, and it would hardly fit under the table with my two meters, and I don't know anyone from the government at the time that he was lurking under the table and negotiating with anyone. That he won't yield to blackmail, and that's exactly what a disgrace does. The plane shows that the government has done everything to share the union scene and is trying to conduct these tragic negotiations in such an atmosphere. Just forcing professional unions in this law, just confirming this intention, my predecessors were saying something about it. The announcement of the outcome of the negotiations on amendments to the basic Collective Treaty is nothing more than a typical blackmail. If they do not agree, the government will break the collective agreements, and this law needs the government to prevent prolonged application. And there's the unions actually pressed against the wall. At the same time, however, the thesis is being coerced to the public, that unions will actually be the main culprits if the collective agreements break down and all the rights defined by the collective agreement cease. So obviously, the scenario of full marginalisation of social dialogue, growth in the concern of the union scene, and the inability to conduct quality social dialogue through pressure and blackmail methods, is to try to implement political decisions. But this approach to passing this law is no wonder. Because no law adopted by the Croatian Parliament for the term of office of this government has been given the support of the social partners. The result is obvious, the decline in economic activity, all macroeconomic indicators, the re-indulgence in recession, the growth of unemployment, the deterioration of the entrepreneurial investment climate, and unfortunately, here we see that the new GDP growth assessment of the Croatian National Bank has estimated by -1.6%, which is an estimate of the new 30,000 lost jobs in the real sector. I would like to point out here that even the content in some of the elements of this law is not controversial. Croatia needs a kind of regulation of the union's representative issues and union centres at all levels. But the issue of representativeness must be resolved within the union scene, and not so rudely imposing a solution by the government, which is in direct contrast with the values taken over in the negotiations process with the European Union, as well as the Conventions of International Labour Organisations. This law deals with fundamental interests, or more specifically with the basic meaning and purpose of the existence of a union organisation. To pass such a law, not to have the union's consent, is a rare attempt to intervene in the freedom of union organisation. However, the essential and fundamental reasons for the adoption of this law are actually amendments to the Labour Law. Article 27 of this Act repeals Article 262. The labour law thus limits the extended application of broken and expired collective agreements. It is clear that this institute of extended application must be changed and should be amended in 2010. Therefore, Article 27, which is found in the transitional and final provisions of this Act, is amended in Article 262. The labour law. This law is needed by this government right now, right now, at the stage of negotiations on a basic collective contract of public services, to blackmail the unions and force them to accept the ultimate demands. It is quite clear now how hypocritical it was by the SDP, today's prime minister and others who competed in the condemnation of the then government in an attempt to amend the Labour Act. It's Article 262 and exactly the part where you're trying to change it now. I don't need to mention, of course, your role in co-organizing the signing of a union request for a referendum. At the time, you deceived the Croatian public, so that we could mining labour rights, abolish collective agreements, and all because of petty politics and the assessment that it was convenient to get on that train to try to destabilise the then government. We don't mind amending Article 262. Labour law, but do it where it should be done and the way it is done in a civilized world, a quality social dialogue. The issue of labour market reform is also a fundamental issue of the competitiveness of the Croatian economy. But in fact, there should be no illusion that you are able to open this key issue, as in more than half a year you have not reached any key question that would open any key question that would point to the government's ability to address serious economic issues. The tragic effect of this government's work is unfortunately already visible, an increase in the cost of life, a fall in economic activity, no effects of volunteering except in the administration. And even the relative idea of seasonal employment, as we hear from serious entrepreneurs in agriculture, turns into a nightmare and generates an increase in costs, and a number of anti-enterprise laws further worsens business conditions for the Croatian economy. The twilight fall is unfortunately already at the door and is quite predictable. And it is no wonder that Minister Linic is already declaring the state of emergency, predicting even worse in 2013 and announcing the International Monetary Fund. Although we do have to change Article 262. ZOR, as well as the adoption of the Law on Representativeship, precisely because of the way these issues are trying to resolve this mixer law, we cannot, of course, support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12948	Thank you, Your Honor. A replica of the respected representative of Dragutin Lesar has been reported to your presentation. Correction, sorry. Thank you very much for your warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12949	Yes, the correction. I am correcting the quote of a colleague who said he was hypocritical and of the others who signed the request for a referendum in 2010. Well fellow Popijač, Croatian Labourers then collected 80,000 signatures and changed the attitude on that provision we did not, we stayed in the same position. So we're not hypocritical, no, some are... The rest of you who did this, they're Croatian Labourists, we haven't changed our attitude. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And I must remind you that this referendum did not occur because the majority, the HDZ majority in the Assembly, instead of the decision to call a referendum, went to seek the help of the Constitutional Court to interpret that there was no legal basis for the first civil referendum that could be called. The maneuver you played is just as hypocritical as this is hypocritical what the Kukuriku coalition is doing today.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12950	Thank you very much. Next is the HNS club, sorry. Okay. The Minister wants on behalf of the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12951	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable MPs and the MPs. We've heard very little about the law. Nothing new, I was hoping we'd have a little more constructive suggestions there, that we'd have an amendment that might improve what was said, and on the other hand just to remind that the law I told HDZ tried to pass the law Mr. Drinker had on a table that was a good law. I said it was a good law and therefore remains but you had no political will to bring it and you didn't mean you just obviously didn't have the hand enough or you didn't have the political will to bring it to the Parliament. So he stayed somewhere in the impasses of the economy ministry. And then there was a problem like the previous years that the unions couldn't agree. Therefore, the law could not be passed at that time and you have a comment from the International Labour Organisation, who said that unfortunately because trade unions cannot agree that the Government or the Proposer should adopt a final opinion on some parts and did not go any further. So he stayed there. The law had good solutions, which apparently did not agree at the time that neither today nor at the time, so the rest is exactly the same. So the law itself is a law that requires that in some things we agree on and in those things where we cannot agree that it will then have to be decided by the Proposer. So who, for example, about the percentage of unionally organised members who are sufficient to be representative of the law, you have two totally opposite opinions. One that thinks 20% is quite enough, three centres think it should be 10%. But look at the devil, when we talk about professional unions, then those who advocate 20% who are enough for them are now not responding to professional trade unions. Well, the trade unions match two centers or two other centers, three of which don't match. Therefore, in these cases, the Proposer decided to judge and conform to his thinking and to his concept of the law. But the law is that when you look at it somewhere over 80% in accordance with it, it doesn't say that it's absolutely out of line, but that everyone is against it. Therefore, it is something that brings to this House which has failed to bring 15 years which has failed to be passed with 6 versions of the law, with a lot of working groups, with consultants from the International Labour Organization, just to point out that it has gone to the European Commission, that it has gone to the International Labour Organization for Unfathomable Comments and that we have received very useful comments from them. However, no comment is made that this law is contrary to the international convention that it should be withdrawn. Therefore, I think that the basis of this law will make a lot of legislation in Europe when they do the Law on Representativeship this will be their foundation and we have already received certain requests from trade unions from other countries to send them this bill in English. As regards the negotiations on a basic collective contract for public services, he has nothing to do with negotiations with the law itself, because the basic collective contract Mr. Popiac for public services is valid until 4.10.2013, therefore for public services, it will continue to apply if we do not agree. Therefore, this Law on Representativeness and the shortening of the time limits for the extended application of the legal rules has nothing to do with the existing negotiations. So we made it clear that there was no deal, that there was no blackmail, that there was no condition we would sign this if you did this to us. Negotiations are very clear everything on the table which is transparent, all trade unions know exactly what we are negotiating and only negotiate what is on the table and there are no other arrangements on the side.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12952	Thank you very much. Ministers have been informed of your presentation of two amendments to the incorrect allegations, and that is the respected Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12953	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, there was a strong political will at the time, but unfortunately there was no political force was Croatia ahead of the end of the negotiations and could not allow workers to go out into the streets, which you very much supported. I guess that's what they'll say in public at the Croatian Parliament. You wanted to get the workers out on the street to win the election, that's a fact. And this law you're proposing today is pure blackmail to the unions. A pure blackmail that could cost Croatian citizens in the future, several billion kunas as it cost us when you did not pay for Christmas and regress, you did not collectively negotiate it, later the workers received a dispute for all of what you are doing today, you were warned from this speaker at the time of the inauguration of the Prime Minister Mr. Milanovic's Government's programme and you were warned when the budget was proposed that you did not provide for non-application of collective agreements and that you must secure the funds for this. Now that you have found yourself in front of the wall again, sell demagogue to Croatian citizens and Croatian workers with representativeness which you will certainly not pass. You can wave your head all you want. You abused employees in 2010. [[Intruder: Time.]] To make a referendum for themselves. But then there was political will, today there is neither political will nor strength.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12954	Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12955	Just one more sentence. It's pure blackmail from Croatian trade unions.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12956	Thank you very much. The next correction of the incorrect quote and the esteemed representative Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12957	Mr. Secretary here said there was no political will. What he said behind that was simply contrary to the one finding because it was said that it had failed for 15 years to come to an agreement, that the 6 version had passed, and in fact that's where we come to the core of the problem. Whether this law can be passed through the will of parliament only by the majority, not taking into account the views of all other unions and all other political entities in this. There is a question of what I said the other day, whether we will agree on rules on how certain laws are made, especially when it comes to tripartite relations where there should be agreement between all interested parties, and not this way over the knee, making decisions that can then, by logic, change things with the next after the change of power in the next elections.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12958	Thank you very much. The next club is the HNS club and respected representative Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12959	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with associates, dear colleagues and colleagues. The HNS Club will support this law. When considering this law, it should in any case come from its importance, namely it regulates the labour market along with the Labour Act and the Labour Protection Act and concerns the fundamental right of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to protect their own interests. One form of association is certainly a union association. These trade unions, as one of the predecessors correctly noted in the debate, experienced a certain transformation and a correction of their role by changing the social system in the 1990s and became the only mechanism for workers to fight organisedly for their rights and achieve their interests. However, when we talk about trade unions, we must look at one truth that is ultimately supported by figures presented in this debate, which is that today, in Croatia, trade union protection and organisation only 30 percent of employees in the Republic of Croatia are organised in 500 and some trade union organisations. There are different levels of union organisation, forms from professional, border unions to union centres. And as we have witnessed in recent times the efforts of the unions more or more effectively that the elections for workers' rights have actually witnessed the devaluation of their role, the growing antagonisms, the frequent conflicts between union organisations that, by nature, things should represent the same interests and we could actually bear witness to one truth, that in some situations workers have become together with their interests hostages of union division. We in HNS are experiencing the adoption of this law as one incentive and the creation of a kind of legal framework that should determine the rules of future functioning of the union scene among others, as well as the rules of one process that is most important for trade unions, which is collective bargaining. In this law, this second version of the law also respects certain remarks made during the first reading showing the openness and will of the legislator to be corrected in the case of legitimate observations. We also hope at the HNS Club that if we apply this law, we show some additional weaknesses that we will have enough political will and correctness to meet and correct in a positive direction. Among other things, this law regulated the rules of representativeness, gave the possibility of legal protection when it comes to determining regularity, representativeness and in any case it does not restrict the ability of trade unions or trade union organisations to work in any way. He also predicted the possibility of working, of course, and those unions that have no representativeness, simplifying the process of determining representativeness, has brought about some shifts, but a real shift in the functioning of the trade union movement in Croatia, if you want to call it that, I like to call it that, the real answer to that question must be given by the union itself, by workers, employees to whom unions are the only acceptable and appropriate mechanism for protecting their rights. It must be given to union centres that should show full maturity and reduce antagonism among themselves, they should give union leaders, leaders in Croatia by putting egotrips under the table if they really want to team up, create real union power and raise this very sad information about 30% of organised workers. When we talk about the union organisation of workers, it also comes to our attention that employees in public services are all unionally organized and that they have achieved much greater rights through collective bargaining in the past and today they have a better position, even if theirs is not great. What concerns me as a man, as well as us as people in HNS, is the fact that today in Croatia, very many workers in small private employers, middle employers simply cannot be a member of the union because in this case they question their fundamental right, which is the right to work. This practice that individual employers in hiring or retaining workers as criteria take whether or not someone has decided to be a member of the union, it is a big question and a challenge not only for us in this assembly but also for the present minister. That's something we should find an answer to. Finally, through this collective negotiation and through some new model that will result in the adoption of this law should come to what is optimal, there should be a possible level, the maximum level of material rights of workers. Because there's one big truth, there's no political party or politician who doesn't like citizens and voters, there's no one in this assembly who wouldn't make all the material resources available to workers, raise the quality and standard of life. But let us be realistic and look the truth into our eyes. The current sad situation in which Croatian citizens and workers are located when it comes to the level of material rights and quality and standard of life is not the product of anyone's political spite, they are unfortunately the product of the achieved level of efficiency of the Croatian economy. They are the consequences of the policy that has been conducted over the past 20 years and its seriousness and responsibilities and be sure, it has been negotiated in one way or another that every policy will give maximum of what is on the disposition. No one's crazy enough to deal with politics and for no good reason turns citizens against themselves. In any case, this bill of law is one step that should encourage trade unions to organise themselves in a better way, to eliminate unnecessary antagonisms and to deal less with egotrips and more with protection of workers' rights. For these reasons, the Croatian People's Party will support this law, with a recommendation that if its implications are shown there are shortcomings that are controversial and which significantly hinder the work of the unions to be so correct and then to approach the changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12960	Thank you, too. At your presentation, the esteemed representative, Ivan Shuker, has a correction to the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12961	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Col. Baranovic, it is incorrect that this law, a law that should bring unions together to organise for the simple reason that it is brought in in other times and other opportunities, would be attended by trade unions. This law is purely blackmailed by unions to agree to amend and cancel collective agreements. We can discuss this law, discuss it in other times, then probably discuss some other things. However, if you send two more laws that the government has temporarily withdrawn from the parliamentary procedure, which is about the salaries of employees in state and public services, then unfortunately this law gets an epithet of blackmail law and it is for Croatian workers and the Croatian trade union scene, and when you negotiate collective agreements then you can discuss representativeness.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12962	Your Honor, counsel Shuker, I have followed very closely. You haven't corrected a single fact. You corrected the opinion of respected representative Petar Baranovic, and then you expressed your opinion, your views. You didn't mention any of the facts in the correction, but that's the case. Okay. What's a little bit? You can't have sex with me.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12963	Well, I won't argue, but don't be angry, Mr. Chairman. You can't comment on the position of the chairman what I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12964	I'm sorry, Your Honor, you didn't get your word. You didn't get the word. Is that right? You didn't get the word.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12965	How could I not?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12966	You're not. Please, nice!
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12967	You are required to give me the floor of the Rules of Procedure when I request the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12968	But you didn't win!
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12969	How?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12970	You didn't get the word. We can move on. The Honorable Representative of Silvano Hrelja and the Club of Representatives of HSU, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12971	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, Deputy Assistant. Here is the final draft law on criteria for participation in tripartite bodies and representativeness for collective bargaining. And in my first reading debate, when I had an individual debate, some of my colleagues from the opposition clubs seemed to have had an opposition debate. Nor did I have an opposition debate then, nor will I have a positional debate today, but I will try to tell you a lot of some of the life's knowledge that I have in this field and be very honest in my debate. Of course, I will commend what needs to be commended, and the same critically refers to what may not be best. What is important is to say what is the difference between the situation and the moment when the first reading of this law took place and today is a constant shift in the negotiations with the trade unions. Because we definitely can't say when we talk about this law that we're as a legislative authority in a completely neutral position, because our government is an active negotiator at this point, the moment we discuss it in law. What makes it much easier for me is the fact that the government as a negotiator, that it has given up reducing the allowance to the internship because it is what is related to gross wages, because what is received every month and what is the mood in these negotiations is not to be strained, or that it is not permanently abolished receipts based on Christmases, jubilee rewards, regressions and other rights that have been paid either once in a few years or once a year. So it's certainly at this point an extenuating circumstance over the debate on this law. What is good in any case in this law is the final determination of representativeness for participation in tripartite bodies or bodies of tripartite cooperation at national level, at European level and under the law of the social partners and at local level. So, the obligation is to institutionalise social dialogue and practically our social partners want and have an Economic and Social Council at national level, and as a right they can also have it at the level of the county, or larger cities. I don't know if that makes any sense at the municipal level, but surely at the level of four major cities or larger industrial cities, it makes sense. That's probably good, and it was supposed to come back in '96, seventh, eighth year, and that's what's missing. But you have to ask all the governments that were then and all the unions why it wasn't brought in. It is certainly not the responsibility of the Croatian Parliament. It's obvious that every moment was more or less appropriate for someone. I remember that there were discussions, i.e. with representativeness, and the division of union property, and that was the point of reluctance. So no one is without sin, and I see no one throws himself with stone. Therefore, the second part in which I put quite high criteria for determining representativeness is quite administratively high and I consider it less good, but it is not some problem because it can really be corrected in walking if it is shown in practice that some criteria are exaggerated. And what I as an agent and as a man can't and will never accept no matter what I think and it's being verified that it's legitimate, that it's all legal, professional-legislative, that one law changes the provisions of another law. I can't do it anymore and besides being a representative and a citizen, I can't have the experience of having all the provisions that govern the basic labour market law in the Labour Act. But there's some other law that changed that. I've got a problem here. And I'm openly talking about my problem, that I just don't like to raise my hand for such laws. But this isn't the first time. Probably won't be one last time. And the promoter found that there's more reason to do it that way. We're talking union organization here. There is no need to encourage union organisation. Let people, in their own interest, organize themselves. Croatia is not poorly organised at all. France is poorly unionally organised only 1 and a half percent of the population. So, only a million people are in the union in France, out of 70 million. They can fight for their rights, they can fight for collective agreements. So they have strategies, they know how to get to know the public, and it's not necessary for everyone to be members of the union and everyone to think the same way. Croatia has 10% population unionized. If you're going to look at it, it's 30% of the working population. That's not small. Italy with retirement unions that make up 50% of the union Corps has 17% trade union, everything means about 8% of active workers. Of course, they have reasons why they have this strong relationship with the pensioner union because it's practically past and active labor, and it really works with them. Highly unioned countries are one Austria, one Denmark, Germany. Germany is a special story, but Denmark and Austria are countries with highly developed social dialogue, and these negotiations are somewhat more like negotiations within their chambers of commerce. One completely different story compared to our unionism with other historical facts and other causes. German unionism is a unionism that fights money against money. So capital on capital. This is an American system passed on to European principles and they solve all their problems by damaging the employer they can pay from strike funds. As much as the Croatian trade union movement relied on German, this fact could never be overcome because the problem of saving in Croatia and Croatian trade unions exists for such a purpose. A colleague, Lesar, mentioned here about an evil that does not allow a great good social dialogue, these are domestic collective agreements or corporate collective agreements, etc. In my view, this is partly true unless there is a system of collective bargaining, and there is no collective bargaining system in Croatia. And this law will not solve the system of collective bargaining. It will define which role, which criteria collective bargaining entities must meet, what they must do, how they must register, how they must present themselves to the other side, but the system will not resolve. The Italians, for whom we can think whatever we want, have an extremely efficient system of collective bargaining. Why? Because they set out that the highest level of negotiations determines the minimum level of law, and once that is established, no one at the lower level of negotiation should negotiate. Therefore, they can negotiate only if they can build this minimum right at company level, at group level, at the level of the branch of activity. And there's no energy consumption. All these years in Croatia, there is a terrible energy consumption because everyone negotiates everything, and then we come to a position where we have fewer rights at the level of businesses where it should normally be greater than the border collective contract itself. That's the problem with collective bargaining. The question of representativeness, so watch the unions when they're divided if they don't come in, they don't get representativeness, they're going to team up with others and they're going to enter the negotiation process. If they don't come in today, they'll be in in a year or in new negotiations. Because they say here for three years it takes confirmation of representativeness. Yes, but the next year when negotiations are opened again raises the question of representativeness. Of course, this union that lost its representativeship this year will either make a maneuver or take members of this other union or join with someone else and it will be representative next year and we will still have to establish representativeness. So that's one dynamic I understand, I'm experiencing it and I think there's going to be a lot of work. And I think the ministry, regardless of the quality of the rules it intends to bring, is quite a bit of itching and a lot of work. But if that's what they want then it's okay. I'd like to share another experience with you. Our collective agreements as many as are signed, no matter what some of us have, are possible public announcements, some we don't have because they're at the level of county offices and ok there are them in the archives, in the registration, etc., but we don't have any idea what we should do to have insight into these collective agreements, are approximately nameless collective agreements – but to me collective agreements. Why am I saying that? Well, if you've never received a collective contract, for example. for public services in Italy or for the private sector, then you will see that this is one book in which the name and last name were mentioned after years when all negotiators and all experts consulted in the negotiations on collective agreements with all contributions were negotiated. So, it's not, collective agreements aren't one document I sign, so it's just a contract. He has his own history, he has his own development, he also has certain critical moments when you need to deviate from a certain right, but then you see the history of these industrial relations and can all be monitored in one place. So, what I am slowly bringing to an end my debate, what is certain is that this law will contribute to the strengthening of trade union organization. It'll do the trade unions themselves. The law won't do that. The law can contribute to strengthening industrial relations in Croatia if we make and determine and regulate a system of collective bargaining regardless of whether it will be defined by the Economic and Social Council Agreement, because the agreement is an instrument that can produce the Economic and Social Council or the social partners will in some way propose to the Croatian Parliament to strengthen it. Only then can we talk about strengthening industrial relations because there is no strengthening of one partner at the expense of another. And I don't really believe in helping one partner to strengthen the other. To all the governments of the world, it was appropriate for unions to be divided, and everyone was definitely more procuring with employers than with unions because it was the easiest way. And we're no exception and we don't have to tell each other fairy tales. In that sense, when I mentioned employers we gave one interest... Amendment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Since the whole law is questioning the union's representativeness, it is questioning the union's representativeness, and nowhere, and even in Article 10, if I'm not mistaken, employers can seek to determine the representativeness of the union, which I think is intervening one another in the way of registering others. But definitely, I'm saying the whole law deals with union representation and their associations. Are we one add-on that it would be good for those 3,000 employers who employ more than 100,000 workers to declare whether they are paying salaries and other material rights to workers in order to meet the obligations of contributions and taxes to the state? Because it's the only way to say it's a representative employer who meets his obligations, because workers and their representatives are definitely asked to meet all their obligations without exception. Thank you very much. I hope that you will respect part of our amendments and that we will try to further improve industrial relations in Croatia and beyond this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12972	Thank you very much. On your exhibit, we have two corrections to the incorrect assumption. First respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12973	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Hrelja said two in principle and a factographically false allegation. One is that no union organisation should be encouraged, perhaps not in Germany, Denmark and Austria, Croatia should definitely, above all, protect it, protect it and then encourage it. It has a lot of employers, we know examples, from large international corporations, to petty domestic entrepreneurs who don't allow their workers to be members of the union. Secondly, Hrelja's colleague also said that negotiations with trade unions in Germany that are rich do harm to the economy in favour of workers. I think it's in principle, in principle, in theory and practice, inexhaustible. If workers benefit, then the economy seems to benefit. It may not seem to benefit the employers, but the economy does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12974	Thank you very much. I estimate it's a typical replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12975	And when there's nothing I can do.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12976	Yeah. Next correction of the incorrect quote and the esteemed representative Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12977	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of the Hrelj said that individuals from the opposition were liquefying over his last debate on the first reading because of the transition to, it turned out to be an opposition. No one was liquefied, so we should be honest, so we were just glad to hear from this side for the first time that someone who thinks differently from the government has the guts to say it. So we weren't liquefied, we were looking forward to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12978	Thank you very much. The next club is SDSS and respected representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12979	Dear Mr. Vice President, the respected representatives of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the SDSS Club, I'd like to say a few things about this bill. The first thing you'd like to say is that you've already said in part a previous speaker, a colleague of the Hrelja. And this is the position of the Parliament in this matter that for the second time in the past two years, the Parliament puts itself in some kind of instrumental function when working legislation is on Wednesday. First, it was a matter of referendum, where the matter of the referendum is rather than being resolved by the Parliament pushed by the Constitutional Court to resolve it. And that's what the Parliament's past assembly was doing. Now here's a negotiating unfinished business. Minister Mrsic is as if 80% of it has been agreed, which we are pleased to see the negotiation process going. But about 2 or 3 key things the negotiation process is not completed and the parliament is being put into a position to cut off as a representative body in a negotiating process in which it has not participated. And we consider that questionable. And in that sense, even though we have encouraged you to try to reach some kind of compromise through the amendments, through possible negotiations until the day of this law's vote. About what? First of all, it's the taste of this law, and that's the question of representativeness. So, raising the threshold to 20% for general unions and 40% for professional trade unions is on the one hand a question of whether it is 40% for trade unions or whether it can be significantly less, because in relative relations given the favoring of trade unions throughout this legal solution, compared to the border unions. The question is whether it will achieve the effect you think it should, which is that there is a concentration of trade unions, or trade union associations. Or it should just complicate the process of reaching out to who the unions actually have the possibility of being representative. And in that sense, our proposal is to consider what the real motive was to raise it to 20% with the original original idea that the ministry came out of 10%. Why is 10% not enough, as a criterion for determining representativeness? Why was that supposed to raise to 20%? Who will benefit from this, and why should the government determine this criterion? Why shouldn't it be the unions themselves? Why shouldn't their word be the last word in that sense? Why should the government be in some matter that should actually be self - control? It's the only segment where the union should have the power of self-management. So let them decide which of them has the power to be representative and who doesn't. But if you have any further arguments, we'll be happy to listen to them, but if these arguments are covered by the interests of employers, then we're afraid we can't listen to you. Not because we would be against employers, on the contrary, not because we want to make it difficult for employers and for the difficult conditions of business they have, but because we know very well that in a significant part of employers unions are not allowed, that a significant part of the employers' role as a union is not the way it should be. And in this regard, we will support and support the amendment announced by our colleague Hrelj that the issue of employers' representativeness should also be seen, not just the question of union representation. And with that amendment, it will undoubtedly then raise the social partnership to a higher level and a higher level in the negotiation process. As for professional trade unions and the danger of professional trade unions being more advantageous than the border unions, if that danger exists, and if in this way it opens pro-problem for the easier negotiating position of another social partner, and that means the employer in relation to the trade unions, then the question is whether we should actually give in that way. Then the question is whether we should leave responsibility exclusively or give priority to the professional unions in relation to the border unions, especially in circumstances where we know that people lose jobs more easily than they get, especially in circumstances where we know that people are afraid to organize trade unions. And there are some colleagues who have spoken about the need to protect the union organization are right because there is still fear of it. And that state is not present, that government is not present enough and should be able to eliminate that fear, not against employers, but against those who are actually in the right sense not who are bosses and who act as employers and not as employers who respect the law. Finally, the question of Article 27 of the bill and Article 262. The labour law. As suspicious as it may be to me at least if there is no odyscal campaign that says especially in some media that says there are two castes in Croatia. One caste of state employees and another caste is those who are not employed by state institutions. You can imagine that those who are employed in the country have any more significant advantages than the minimum safety of work, labour security and respect for collective agreements. When it comes to wages, it's a big question of how safe they are like everyone else. But that's to reach the standard. Are we now due to bad practice in some other segments that no one asks how it's possible to say person A goes from board to board of company manager A takes severance, goes to company B's board of directors, waits for a salary of 40 to 80 thousand kuna, and then from that severance company goes to company C with the same salary? That kind of management contracts and that kind of manager and PR manager aren't caste, and the officials working in this House for three to four thousand kunas they are caste. Why? Because I can't end up on the labour market so they can be employed in the store or I don't know in which other segment. We must speak against it to colleagues and colleagues because it is a twisted system of values. It's not any neoliberalism or anything else, it's simply a warped, upside down system of values that things misname. We know which castes are in this society. And it's puking some kind of people who are in trouble maybe bigger at this point at other people who are in trouble maybe less at this point but are in trouble the same. In this respect, the question of Article 27. So we understand what it's about. When you can't walk in the door, you walk in the window or you can't walk out the door, anyway. That's how you wanted to do it here, too. But we all know here that this needs to be changed to Article 262 but it needs to be changed by negotiation. Okay, three months, but is three months enough? With everything that can come with legal procedures so that someone can file a complaint, a complaint to the Court of Justice. And how long will that take? In our circumstances, can this take three months or more realistic to expect it to last six months? Oh, yeah. Therefore, I urge you to think about it and complete this negotiation process because if three months is not enough, and not enough, go to 6 or go to another formulation and you will get support. And this way, if we in the House are cutting off whether it's 3 or it's 6 or more months, we can't do it, we can't do it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12980	Thank you, too. We're moving on to an individual debate of 10 minutes. Branko Vuksic first answered. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12981	Dear Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. One basic question that is being raised through several debates here should union organization be protected? Many will now say I was warned from both the left and the right when I talked about some prohibitions whether you reported it. These cases I'm going to talk about have been reported hundreds of times, but the rule of law has never responded. You certainly heard, and you may know for yourself that in many Croatian tycoon companies union organization is forbidden. It's a condition for getting a job that the union doesn't organize itself. Can labour inspections get into some factories? Can workers at the Konzum cash registers or any other company be allowed to talk about company irregularities? They can't, they're getting fired, they're being threatened. The union movement in Croatia is at risk and the union movement should be supported, but the union movement should be supported absolutely not by such laws and by laying down one law in order to harm another law, what Mr Silvano Hrelja said before. Earlier, the minister spoke of the government doing everything possible to strengthen social dialogue. Says the unions are under-prepared for collective bargaining. Look, when politics starts to deal with unions that way, when politics shows self-care towards unions, that's when something's wrong. First of all, it turns out that the government is fighting foot and arm for workers, and that the unions are against these workers. There's something wrong with that. Does anyone here in the hall really think that unions are fighting for workers' rights? The picture of Croatian trade unions is certainly wrong. There would be no collective agreements if there wasn't a union and here we have two prominent union representatives who acted and worked once, now they're parliamentary deputies, to get what happened, to be '96. years of fighting for what today is trying to end, which will likely be by muscle strength and abolished. But everyone here, demagogue, that you're handing us over to the Croatian Labourists, you claim to be doing it for the good of the workers. Watch out for the union scene, and that union scene you just said we won't accept your suggestions. You say 80% is consistent. Please tell me when the body works with 80%, those 20% when the heart and brain don't work. So, demagogue is when you say 80% is accepted. What you're looking for is not accepted. I'm almost, I've had a bit of tears in my eyes, I've cried, I'm moved by the care of the workers, I'm moved by the care of the unions, it's something amazing. A colleague who spoke before on behalf of the SDP club says this government will not pretend not to see problems, it is time to start solving problems. I totally accept her line, but are you starting with the worker? So what important problem in Croatia has been solved in the last six months. And now, as it turned out, it started cutting union rights, which is cutting labour rights. And the way it's done, it's done by force. Here's what I said in the previous debate. Something strange to me, right-hand side let's say right-wing parties are fighting for workers' rights, left-wing parties are against workers' rights. It used to be the other way around, the right parties were against the rights of workers but everything got mixed up, the workers were in wonder, they don't know what to do, they don't know how to do. In Europe, the left and right are measured against the capital, not the partisans and Ustashas, as it is with us. And this government is right and it shows it every day. They didn't impose on the banks, they didn't. Outside countries that are considered capitalist states far more than Croatia have taken that measure, not with us. After what is adopted on Friday, it is certain that the award will come from the authorities and the Mudrinic, that the award will come from the authorities and from Todorovic, especially from Tedesch, who is now more popular than the two, will meet again at a ranch, in a villa and say here we have fulfilled our tasks. It is said that we will loosen the Labour Act indirectly to abolish collective agreements to make it easier for workers to be fired because it will be easier to employ. It's a lie, it's a world lie, it's done in the world. There are fewer and fewer rights for workers, such as fewer and fewer rights for workers in Croatia. It is said that it is difficult to get fired in Croatia. So how many people on the labour market, as many as have been fired in the last few years, 160,000 people have been fired. Well, as these people got, as in Croatia, it's hard to get fired. 80% of people who receive permanent employment are admitted for a certain period of time, not indefinitely. What are we talking about? This is a lie. We here in the Parliament deceive workers and swear we fight for the rights of these workers. So what right of workers is left, let's say what rights Croatian workers have today. In one text I received, says one of the workers, you tell us we're helping you, please don't help us, we're already strangled by your help. And that's it. If you think people don't understand what's going on in the House today and what's going to happen in the Parliament on Friday or some other Friday, you're wrong. You say in the state sector, workers need to be cut off by some rights because there's no money. There's money. For example, in 2011, 150 million kunas were donated to donations, 150 million kunas. In the supervisory boards, members of the supervisory boards continue to receive state-owned companies, which is one salary of one worker per month for 8 hours a day. There's money, but he always fucks on the wrong side. So all this stuff that's done, so it's starting to solve the problems from where, from the workers. What country in Europe has come out of the crisis on the burden of workers, so it has cut the rights of workers? Not one. So you're concerned about labour rights, but you don't care about the rights of bankers, the rights of telecommunications companies. You didn't impose as you promised before the election of large-scale capital to the banks. They came in line for the workers. If after this law, really this government is going to deal with all the problems in the way it does, as it does to the trade unions, we're going to be one of the richest countries according to the workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12982	Thank you, too. We have five replicas on your exhibit. Silvano Hrelja first came forward. Here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12983	Dear colleague Vuksic, I am grateful that you gave me the opportunity to explain one of the views I said about the pay phone so that there would be no dilemma. I never thought that it was necessary to help the members of the union to exercise their rights, in some way to be members of the union and to trust their union to fight for the better, for their better rights. I was saying that the government doesn't have to help round the unions because it's a process that doesn't need any support on the side because it just has to happen. And what I wanted to tell you is not a problem with the rights of the workers just the problem of the employers, because by vocality, employers will give as little rights as possible. Right? And if that union man who tried to join and tried to organize the union on the first give-up, not like he said before his colleague Pupovac, if he gets kicked out of the door, he has to go in through the window and insist on it, then there's nothing from the union organization. I, from my experience, can tell you that I have negotiated negotiations and collective agreements with Buick twice. It's a multinational company. Buick was building an Istrian impyslon. The first contract was from 1997, and the second collective contract was concluded when I was a representative at the Croatian Parliament in 2003. No matter what I was, I was an authorised negotiator and I finished my job and workers employed in Buick, the branch of Croatia had their rights governed by collective agreements. Unfortunately, the second one was more unquality than the first one, it was better in 1997 as far as workers' rights were concerned and it was easier to negotiate than it was in 2003. But you can do anything if you want to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12984	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12985	I agree, Mr. Hrelja. And now in these times, especially after this entry into force of this law, it will be even more difficult to negotiate and I agree with you that the government should not worry about rounding up the unions. If the unions don't do it themselves, if the unions themselves consciously don't do it for sure that no one on the side will. It can be a rotten deal again and it can only harm the unions. And one thing you certainly know better than I do, which is yellow unions, these are trade unions set up by exactly employers in their companies and with these trade unions, mostly employers will negotiate and in these trade unions workers will have to join in many real-estate companies. And everything will be transparent, everyone will be members of the union. However, he will actually be members of the union of the same employer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12986	Thank you. Next replica Zoran Vinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12987	Well, a respected colleague, Vukusic, said perhaps even one to paraphrasise how left and right were replaced practically in Croatia's politics. However, it was true to say that there is no longer a Social Democratic Party of Croatia in this House, or no party promoting the Social Democratic Programme and Social Democratic Ideas, because this party has turned into a neoliberal party of Croatia. On the other hand, the obvious intention of this law is to break up the entire union scene and similar to the Law on HRT where, therefore, one public television turns not into state but party television. Obviously, the intention of this law is to create party unions, but also party employers' associations, and then we'll negotiate with a pen, shake or white, and collectively negotiate. So, the SDP has turned into a neoliberal party of Croatia and it is obviously visible from this law, but also from all of these, thus imposing on citizens and economies who daily and weekly come to the benches of our parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12988	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12989	Mr. Vinkovic, aside from the wrong last name, you said some more things wrong. You said there was no more left party in Croatia. There are left parties compared to capital, these are Croatian Labourers – party of work. I'm sure it's the left party. First of all, you'll say it yourself I can't claim for you. First of all, he says everyone's something, they're changing, everyone's changing. Croatian Labourists gathered 700 and several thousand signatures and gave them to the unions at the time of signature. We haven't changed since then and we've advocated the same thesis we've advocated at the time of the signing. So we're not camels. That's what we leave to others. As for the party unions. Remember in the 1990s how many party unions, how much HDZ founded the union, were known which trade unions were HDZs, which were these others. That's how it's gonna be now. But Manulic was in HDZ, the truth was also in the SDP once.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12990	Thank you. The next replica of counterpart Dujomir Marasovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12991	Honored Mr. Vice President Replicto Mr. Branko Vuksic. He wondered if he didn't understand whether this was the left government, since it wasn't, why this left government didn't defend workers' rights, why it was going to the union, which the workers' rights remained and so asked a number of questions. I'd like to help him understand. This government doesn't matter if it's left or this one at all or what it's called. The fact is that it gave up representing the interests of lower, medium-class workers, etc. There was only a hardliner, one ideologically only in it, that culminated in giving up Bleiburg, but I didn't answer for it, because of what to say about this agenda point. This government obviously with this law today that we're discussing is trying to turn unions into its listeners. A few of them have already seen her on the political scene these days before as a party union. What she didn't do with soap, now or not having previously had as her own, she's trying to turn this maneuver into her party unions and it's over. But well, it's a way of political struggle so let the party have unions under control. But you know what I want to tell you, Mr. Vuksic, here's my opinion on all this. The biggest problem with this government is that it goes to labour rights, union rights, Christmas cards, etc., nothing will be done about it. There is power in this House and there is power in this House, there is power in this country to make structural reforms, but there is no will and no desire and there will be no structural reforms that would actually reduce the cost of the state. For example, in a three-billion-dollar health care, the cost of the state can be reduced so that no one's hair falls off their heads. This government won't do it, it doesn't have the courage, and it hasn't decided to do it, it's spinning around like hot porridge. There will be 200, 300 million goddesses, etc. reduce, and this will reduce the consumption of the population, which will again somehow lead to a decline in GDP, etc., etc. So bad politics is going the wrong way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12992	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12993	Dear Representative Marasovic, thank you for your help. You were saying something about courage. I would also be happier if the government had the courage to change the Labour Act and to openly go into conflict with trade unions and with workers and to speak openly what it does in a sense and what it is trying to change by one law that basic law. Although, as Mr. Hrelja said before, he has a right to do so. Yes, there is. You said this government has all the instruments in its hands. Yes, this government has power. But the only power points to the workers and to the unions because I'm an inaugural man an hour and a half ago when Mr. Mrsic spoke he said they didn't agree with the unions. We heard they didn't even agree with the employers. Then who did they deal with? They demonstrate power in the Croatian Parliament. We've got hands, we'll make those caravan dogs bark the caravans pass.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12994	Thank you. Next replica of counterpart Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12995	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. counterpart Vuksic said that each government is amazingly left and right against the interests of workers and against workers' rights. It's not surprising, it was expected. The government has both found this and this one in trouble what to do in a crisis economic situation. The crisis economic situation is taking us twenty and so many years. She was on a less-resistant line. There is no courage, but there is courage towards the poor and one and the other government. They've got enough courage to hit a harassing poor girl on one side and on the other, whatever the hell that hack's called. There is no courage to act on why she declared herself a program, an election campaign, and so on. Successful capitalism, one that does not generate crises, is capitalism in which the balance of labour and capital is approximately achieved. Balance right, balance in the distribution of social wealth and so on. Of course capital draws to its side, of course workers drag to their side precisely why these negotiations are tripartite. That is why there is this third party, a foreign country that will assess what is the interest of the nation and the state. If this government estimates it's a nation's interest, and it estimates it's obviously more suitable for interests, we call them employers, and we're talking about capital, so capitalists, okay. But then it should be made clear and loud and wipe the declaration off the wall. Then it's called something different. Forced professional trade unions in this context at the expense of these others is a perfectly clear move that actually suppresses working solidarity. So it becomes a constant practice of what is visible in Croatia in every protest. When the peasants protest, the teachers say what you have to rebel. When the teachers are protesting, the peasants say you don't work for two months. When they protest in the ironworks, then street cleaners say no matter how easily they get paid. This working solidarity is asphyxiated by the enforcement of professional trade unions.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12996	Time, buddy. Thank you. We have a response to the replica. A colleague, Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12997	Here you are, your colleague Vuljanic, talking about courage, and now the question is, what's the good news? If both governments failed those who voted for them, they would be sure to wait for the brave government. A government that dares to redistribute capital, a government that dares to impose on those who have the most, not those who have the least. The easiest thing to do is to raise your hands and put a lock in any way you can? The ones who voted. And thus to convince them hypocritically how it is for their own good. Because when they have less then it's good, and when capitalists have more it's also great for those same ones who are. So, he's looking, he's waiting for a brave government who's going to dare to really make radical changes, but it's not going to wait long, honestly.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12998	Thank you. We still have the last line, Domagoj Milosevic. Here you go, buddy. And you get your word right away, here you go. ... You got it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You're giving up the replica. Here's your right to an individual discussion. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u12999	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, first of all, it should be said that unfortunately this is another law that, without social dialogue, but worse and without trying to reach a final solution through dialogue and with trade unions and employers, solves one important issue I think is particularly problematic in times of crisis. I think it is necessary to talk much more and encourage social dialogue at the time of the crisis. What we would certainly expect, which is from the democratic government's social media, to have more hearing about this social dialogue not only with trade unions but also with employers. I won't repeat my predecessors, but the fact is that this bill wants to weaken the position of social partners, so both employers and trade unions, and in fact, by suppressing not only trade union but also employers' scenes, it actually wants to bring down this social dialogue. And it's actually impossible to understand that at this point in time when the economic crisis is deepening, unfortunately it will deepen in the fall. And unfortunately, already in the second quarter of this year, the forecasts we talked about at the beginning of this year when the budget was being made, when VAT was being raised and when everyone else was happening, above all the price increases. And it's all leading to this economical even more difficult situation. So, especially now, it is incomprehensible to give up social dialogue, i.e. the opposite does not force an agreement with one and another social partner. And now I'm going to say something that I wanted to replicate to my colleague Vuksic, and I agree with him that it is hypocritically a lot of things by the left government, but in the same way he is actually acting when he is trying both trade unions and employers and I think it is both dangerous and wrong at these moments to confront each other. I don't think it's good at these moments to confront employers, or vice versa, because they're both in a difficult situation. Our crisis, of course, is not just an economic crisis, our crisis is a wider social crisis, and as we all understand the economy of one country is not a planet for ourselves, so it lives one's life, but it's an economy of the whole society. A successful economy is the result of a successful society and, in this respect, significantly greater reforms are needed. And as I have pointed out several times in this House, which is, therefore, the left government has been given a mandate for a turnaround. What do we consider to be a twist? First of all, we consider structural reforms, and there is no such structural reforms. So then this bill of law is actually trying to tact or some tactical variations change something small. And I hope we all agree that the situation, not only economically, is too serious to try to get the country out of the crisis by tactics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13000	Thank you, too. Next up for the debate Mladen Novak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13001	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I was thinking, since fellow Milosevic is leaving, and I was just about to replicate to him since I'm having an argument right now. Okay?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13002	We have a club, sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13003	No, no, it's okay, it's okay. Well, I was going to say that, uh, about that previous debate, it wasn't about the Labourists being able to potentiate a fight between employers and workers. There's some conflict of interest that's natural, but otherwise we warn that the government does so with laws like this. I must admit that today, for the second time, I am delighted, is the rule, I suppose, to hear a debate on this side that speaks differently from official representatives of the government, that is, that people express their opinion. My colleague Pupovac has defined this extremely well. I hope, given that the proposals did not come from the outset, I hope that at least some of them will be adopted, that they will be taken as well-intentioned. Is on this side that whatever we suggest definitely refuses the apriors. However, I do not know whether or not he heard it deliberately mentioned that solution for the article. It means, "If trade unions refuse further collective bargaining is lifted by the automaticity of a collective contract.", no one mentions that part anywhere, but since then. Now it turns out that my debate is more of a replica of these pasts, which I haven't reported for. He would commend what fellow Shucker is definitely, perhaps the best finding today, and that is, "The trade unions are valued.". We can lie, we can fool ourselves, but that's a fact. These two laws that he mentioned that are not in the procedure at the government's request, it's pure blackmail, it's pure blackmail, and it doesn't need to be called what it is. This is indeed the blackmail of the union movement, i.e. what is valid on the union movement in the union movement, not counting on these yellow trade unions established by employers as needed. In his first speech, the minister stated: "This law will contribute to the work of the union, this law does not change the provisions of the Labour Act but we abolish them.", great. 423 964 members of the union are too small and this law allows unions to be built together. Well, this is where the wolves keep the sheep. God forbid when they start, when the state starts taking care of the union and taking care of them, helping them in their work, that really sucks. If you really want to, now we return with the same measure, if you really want to help round up the union scene, so enter only one article in the law that will set out that the rights of the collective contract are only participated by workers who are members of the union. Today it is said that the time, from the representative of the SDP club, is time to start solving problems, not pushing them under the carpet. Well, I don't know if this government is pushing under a carpet of trouble, but it's definitely pushing a couple thousand workers, just in these two days in announcements, pushing them out into the streets. Aren't those new problems? It turns out that the main problem of this government is workers, and then we push them. Croatian Labourists have already been identified as populists, demagogues, I don't know what not. So now I would ask the question of who's bigger demagogue here than to show up for the old year in Sisak and say that the continuation of production in Sisak in Željezara Sisak is about to begin, here's the only thing we can do as soon as we're done, that is, to fight the elimination of anti-dumping duties and production will begin. Customs were really abolished, it stands, but production definitely shut down. Those plants that were for this production no longer exist there. And now there's no need for those customs. That's why they were abolished, not because it's the success of this government's negotiation. Again, we are the populists, and you in Plan 21 have listed the government's programme as your priority. Why didn't you say priority for you meant destroying a company like HZ and mass layoff? This is how you solve problems is the best, one of the better examples and decisions about, that is, not the decision, it is an announcement of the suspension of the transport fee. Since the whole of Sisak is no longer working, a few thousand people from that Sisak travel to Zagreb, where only one can work, as much as you take care of those people. We all know that SDP gets good results in Zagreb and Rijeka. What are all of us left? There's no more for transportation, we can't even get there. The minister said that many governments are looking for a bill of this law because they can't, and now I would add why. It's just that people out there can't believe that someone like this can do something to their people, this is my inconceivable way and it's still the way it's done. One law changes the other law. What they told you, one of the predecessors, so have at least so much guts, be at least so correct with that people, so change the Labour Act. Change the provisions of the Labour Act with this law, so that's really little, not to say what. And finally, I just have to say, as far as populism and demagogy are concerned, maybe the greatest pulsism and the greatest demagogy is concerned about the circulation of the union scene. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13004	Thank you, too. Replication to your exposure. The first is Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13005	I didn't mean to, but here's my colleague Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13006	So you can give up. You won't?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13007	No, no. Thank you very much. Give me back some time. A colleague, Novak, has often said today that he is happy and happy that he hears from the ruling other opinions that are practically contrary to this proposal from the government of the Republic of Croatia, and I would like to remind him that there are representatives from the Kukuriku coalition who often talk there after that speaker against such solutions, when the vote comes up for it. So don't be so happy. You'd better wait for the vote. And as for hypocrites, the greatest hypocrisy ahead of the election is to stand aside from the workers, sign a request for a referendum, when you sit in the chair of the Prime Minister then forget the workers and what you have signed. And at the same time in front of the MPs, you send a law to which the intention is obvious total destruction of the union scene and the creation of party unions, party associations of employers, and then only because someone is good, I repeat it, so that the player who plays well shakes, towels and white will probably be rewarded in collective bargaining. That's the basic intention of this law. I am not surprised to hear from my colleague Vuksic who left if it wasn't just the Labourists who had a part in the program that was turned I would say to the original social democracy it's the HDSSB. This SDP may be more written in some programme but the SDP has turned and can be freely called NLPH Neoliberal Party of Croatia Doesn't social democracy have anything to do with it anymore? [[Agreement: Thank you to my colleague Vinkovic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13008	15 seconds higher. Thank you. We have a response to the replica of a colleague named Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13009	Thank you very much. As for this joy, my colleague Vinkovic, I said the most honest thing to do was to hear some of the people I hoped for for the first time, or I still hope they won't raise their hands against what they're saying. And what you've apostrophysed as an example there, we've all made sure that, say, I don't know why I immediately thought of those privileged pensions. Maybe it's the association's fault, but it's the first one I thought of. As for hypocrisy, which is a larger form of hypocrisy, it would be given, even more so, to remember the speech in which we will not be the same as our predecessors, and we will respect what comes from the opposite side, we will accept these ideas if they are correct but they are obviously all wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13010	Thank you. Next replica Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13011	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The unions heard us re-rated. That's right. Trade unions have been blackmailed in the past government's mandate, cheated on one of the law's withdrawals, end the referendum procedure because it would be a referendum on the government. Well, the trade unions have been cheated today because those who signed the request for a referendum have neither changed the constitution to reduce the quota for the referendum nor implemented any of what the referendum asked for but rather vice versa. So there continues to be a crackdown on fraud and this law. The Labour Act doesn't change, so to say let's not have any of it, almost abolished you, but through this law actually changes one basic law, this is a lex specialis, and it shouldn't happen but by legal theory, but it's probably the Constitutional Court will say something about it. But it should be kept in mind that I will always come for payment. Merkelism this system of savings... as they call it in Europe obviously doesn't produce results, and we're here somewhere on the corner of Europe, so we're always starting to do what others are already giving up. We're dealing with savings, savings, savings at the expense of the poor. The world was smart enough to see that it didn't produce results and change recipes. Learned. Well, I guess we'll get smart at some other time. By that principle, our country's savings are cost.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13012	Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13013	And capitalism workers are not cost, they're partners.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13014	Thank you. We have a response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13015	Thank you very much. A colleague, Vuljanic, said that the unions have been double-crossed and have been blackmailed, it stands. The fact that they're being blackmailed is what stands for it is for sure. This is whether they've been cheated. Well, there's still a chance they won't be fooled. The colleagues on this side whenever the HDZ relationship was then apostrophe of dishonesty, crime, FIMI Media, I don't know what not, the affairs that were hilly and then they potentiated it for the difference of us we're all wonderful, beautiful, honest, but one of the characteristics of honesty that there's no trick in not having a fig in our pocket. It does not go with the amendment of the Labour Act going with the amendment of this law but with it we abolish the provisions of the Labour Act. It's really fair that it can't be more honest. And another thing my colleague Vuljanić said, which now reminds me a little bit that I don't know how many MPs here are even familiar with it, we always do what Europe has just given up on. So we have a good example, let's say, there hasn't been a Bundestag delegation here for a long time, so we heard from them that the German railways' model is returning to the one from '87, and with that proposal they're going to fall and winter into their Parliament. And now we're doing what they're giving up on, and now we're spending it all on our knees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13016	Thank you. And the last replica of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13017	Dear counterpart Novak, I had to react to one of your claims, which, by the way, has experienced a misdemeanour in the European Union movement and beyond, and some of today's negotiators in relations with the government are also the bearers of the idea, so that what we are negotiating would apply only to members of the union. So it's a quasi-sindicalism that has been experimentally applied only in one Balkan state that has an exit to the Black Sea, not to mention, that I don't do propaganda, but that simply falls back from the fundamental principle of union organization based on interest, but not in the first place of interest. It is first of all awareness that organized we can fight for our rights, that we can act towards both the state and the employer. So it's in the first place, and then it's in second place interest. Only the one who replaced those two things can say that would be good. I highly doubt it, you wanted me to provoke more than you truly think I know you. Look, but since you suggested what would be done in this law, then you could look at what's in Italy. Italy has never allowed collective bargaining to anyone who is not a member of the union centre, so strict respect for the confederal and federal structure of the union. This is certainly the result of the long run, and then city unions combine these confederates and together are very potent in the context of the implementation of a tripartite social dialogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13018	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Young Novak, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13019	Thank you very much. My dear colleague Hrelja, I said this same sentence in my first reading, only at the time I stressed that it was ironic and that it was a provocation, given that this great concern of the Government for the union circle is also considered a provocation and irony. Well, now I'm sorry I didn't point out again that it was irony because it definitely doesn't expect anyone really from wolves to guard sheep. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13020	Thank you. Next to debate Bojidar Kalmeta. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13021	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. There is no minister but well, colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I want to say that here, and this debate confirms that we have a lot of high-quality representatives in the House because I am the 12th in an individual debate, and I have practically nothing to say and what is not said or said, or I have nothing to say that has not been said. But since I was also president of the Economic and Social Council, that I was also vice president of the Economic and Social Council and I have some experience in talks and negotiations with trade unions and employers, I want to say a few things about this bill. So it is unacceptable for me, too, that a bill like this is being put into another reading without any agreement being reached on these things that are regulated by this amendment to the law. And the minister said before that we offered nothing between the two readings to fix this law. I really think that this law simply cannot be fixed, it cannot be improved because it is completely not going to say that it is wrongly planted, but such a law that regulates the rights of workers, which regulates union rights, the negotiation of union representativeness etc., etc., which changes the Labour Act simply cannot and should not come to parliamentary benches without being negotiated with the social partners. I know it takes a lot of time, that there should be nerves on both sides, that there should be knowledge and everything expensive, but my God, the reforms were most easily implemented in totalitarian systems when there wasn't, when there shouldn't have been any conversations with anyone, but we all agree that those times were long behind us and that the reforms had to go. But if we have a tripartite body and we have, if we have union representatives, workers' representatives and employers' representatives, then absolutely one such law should have come, and that before that, it was negotiated, negotiated. There were words, here tomorrow is how much I heard the meeting of the Economic and Social Council discussing what was practically discussed here today. It doesn't make sense, maybe we should have that GSV session on Saturday or Sunday, so we have the GSV's position here today. It is certainly unacceptable that in the final provisions of this law in the article... it has already been said here so that I do not repeat, the Labour Act is changed, the law which is the basic regulation in the Republic of Croatia that regulates relations and is important for workers, and it is in line with the legislation of the European Union on the one hand and agreed among the social partners. So it's absolutely unacceptable, too. Whether he, the Labour Act in Article 266 should be amended or not, it is probably necessary and there has been a lot of speech here, but I also don't think that such a fundamental law that protects workers' rights, which is important for all employees in the Republic of Croatia, whether they are members of the union or not, should also not be changed through this Law on Representativeship in practice by this fundamental Labour Act. The more the former government wanted to correct and amend this article, the more we know, the more than 700 thousand signatures have already been collected. On the other hand, we heard a lot of criticism about it, and the referendum was signed, and clearly the former government then, listening to the will of the citizens, because over 700 thousand signatures gave up the will of the citizens. And thirdly, I also agree that this proposal for a law on tripartite bodies and the representativeness of collective bargaining is that the aim of this is actually to weaken the negotiating position of the union, probably some and put out because the fact is that if only unions can function after a certain number of memberships, if they negotiate with them, that membership from these smaller unions will move into larger unions and then those smaller unions will shut down. And I'll just point out that you can start an association, you have three members, I don't know what else you need there and you can start any association, so that's 20, 40%, etc. About the general union, then the trade unions think it's too much. But in any case, it makes it easier for employers to negotiate position which I think is not good, because the trade unions in Croatia have experience with it, I do, and I believe that many of you do. They are today and trained and, as I would say, professionally and well understood in matter and know the problem, etc. etc. And they protect the rights of the workers. It's impossible for them not to protect the rights of the worker. Does anyone, some of my God have other interests let it go now. It has this everywhere, but the unions generally protect workers' rights and they don't need it to reduce, or weaken their negotiating position in collective agreements, when it comes to labour rights, and so on. etc. Just like reforming public enterprises that need to be done. So we agree that we should do it, but we also know that they're not simple. And in reforming or restructuring, so to speak to certain companies, and there is a need to talk to trade unions operating in these companies because otherwise it is one violence that is not good, which may go well, given that there is a hand more. But it can't end well after all. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13022	Thank you, too. This ends with an individual part of the debate. I'd like to ask the Deputy Minister for a brief closing statement. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13023	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We've been listening very carefully to your debate all along. What I would really like to just point out here at the end of your debate is that the consistency is greater with the unions than 80%, that is unreal to expect a 100% consistency. The amendment of Article 262 does not also mean amending and repealing the Labour Act. Here's to respect your debate, all the suggestions you've made, we'll try to install what can be installed, or what can still be agreed upon, and install it by Friday, so if there are any amendments, we'll let you know, and then you'll be able to decide when to vote. Thank you for your discussion and goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13024	Thank you, too. This is what we're done with. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And I'm setting a break by 3:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13025	Final proposal of the Law on criteria for participation in tripartite bodies and representativeities for collective bargaining, second reading, PZ No. 96. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Club of Representatives of the HSU and the Club of Representatives of the SDP. I call on Minister Miranda Mrsic to declare the amendments. First, Amendment number 1 of the Club of Representatives of HSU on Article 2?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13026	It is not accepted because Article 3 which speaks of the same substance will be accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13027	Thank you very much. An indication of the amendment's proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13028	There may have been some misunderstanding, and I was very concerned that we should write in Article 2 that representative employers are the only employers who regularly pay their wages and meet their obligations to the state. However, I can accept your argument I can't control it now, so I'll take it back rather than overrule it here.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13029	The amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment of the same applicant to Article 3?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13030	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13031	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment of the same applicant to Article 5?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13032	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13033	There's an integral part of the law. Amendment of the same applicant to Article 6?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13034	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13035	There's an integral part of the law. Amendment of the same applicant to Article 10?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13036	The amendment is not accepted since the second amendment will be adopted in the same article.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13037	The applicant's representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13038	I withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13039	The amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment to Article 11?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13040	Access to a collective contract is not accepted by the Labour Act and this bill has not been amended by the institute that the parties to the collective contract consider its parties. Following the above, if the new procedure finds that the unions that are signatories of the collective agreement are representative, regardless of whether they are initial signatories or have joined it, they could all negotiate amendments and amendments to the collective agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13041	Proposer of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13042	Look, access to a collective contract can always be made by any union because it's based on the provisions of the Labour Act. Our intention was just to sign here in this article so that I could access it so it wouldn't be understood that I could only negotiate a new collective contract. Therefore, we are no harm, it is very simple for me to give up. The intention was just to clarify the provision. I give up.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13043	Amendment withdrawn. We're moving on to the amendments to the SDP Representatives Club. Amendment 1 to Article 5
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13044	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13045	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 2 to Article 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13046	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13047	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 3 to Article 9
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13048	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13049	It becomes an integral part of the law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13050	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13051	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 5 to Article 11.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13052	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. We accept that. The composition of the negotiating committee of the trade union referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article will determine the way in which each area negotiated on the conclusion of a collective agreement shall be represented by one member of the union representative who has the highest number of members in the field and the remaining members of the negotiating committee shall be established by the basis of the number of members of other trade unions operating in areas for which collectively negotiated, in relation to the number of total trade union workers in areas to be negotiated and amended, up to 11 members. The amendment is one word, so up to a total of 11 members, according to the remarks of the social partners we received during the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13053	Instead, it means most of all.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13054	Total, that's right. Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13055	The promoter accepted it, so the amendment was accepted in the amended form as read by the minister. Amendment 6 to Article 12
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13056	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13057	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 7 to Article 15
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13058	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13059	It becomes an integral part of the law. Amendment 8 to Article 16
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13060	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13061	It becomes an integral part of the law. I Amendment 9 to Article 17.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13062	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13063	It becomes an integral part of the law. Thank you, Minister. Voting the final bill, before I can conclude the debate. In accordance with Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament for Law-Making requires most of the votes of all MPs, so 76 votes are needed. I'm asking who's in. Against? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that the law has been passed by 85 votes to 46 against and 1 abstention.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13064	My colleagues and colleagues continue to work. Before us - Final proposal of the Law on Medical Aided Insemination, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 71; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to the adoption of laws. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Care, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports and the Committee on Gender Equality. Does Minister Rajko Ostojic want on behalf of the promoter? Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13065	In front of you, the Law on Medical Aided Insemination, which as you know, passed the first reading, has been through a public debate for a month and a half, and not public since January of this year. It is a law that has been on the website of the Ministry of Health at www.Health.hr and during the public debate we have received a whole series of proposals, a whole series of improvements, a whole series of thinking and, of course, part of them we have implemented in this final bill, or second reading. So we carefully analyzed the entire public debate, carefully analyzed the thinking of the three attorneys. Advocacy for children, lawyers for persons with disabilities and lawyers for gender equality. Part of their thinking we naturally incorporated into this law and it is before you. So let me thank you for all your thoughts. Logic is scientific discipline. Logic is also a school subject, of course, but logic is the best experience. Experienced logic is called folk wisdom. Of course, people's wisdom, as well as scientific discipline, is based on preambles and conclusions. So let me tell you a few premises and a few basic premises and a few conclusions. A simple common common common sense because here you, ladies and gentlemen of the MPs and representatives of the representatives of the people are democratically elected. So, first of course, the basic premise. Infertility is a diagnosis, a disease treated by the World Health Organization. This is a law that will and will regulate the treatment of this disease. One MPO method has been used in Croatia since the far-reaching 1983, when a baby, so-called, was born in Petro's hospital for the immeasurable happiness of its parents. "The first Croatian baby from the test tube" today grew up to be a 29-year-old man who makes a fair and honorable living, who has a family and is the third prime minister. The fourth fact and premise is that all this time, including in the '90s, this entire time in Croatia is being spent by one of the MPO methods. So based on these premises, common sense is also easy for you to conclude. This is medical law. This law does not impose anything, however, regulates this area which has unfortunately been unsettled for years. And fourthly, over the entire 30-year period, IPO procedures are being conducted and, for example, last year, as many as 6.5 thousand procedures were born around 1,100 children. Every child born is immeasurable happiness especially in a country that is demographically stagnating, and unfortunately this is our Homeland of Croatia. So the premises and facts of common sense are before you. This law respects clearly 6 principles. The first principle of optimal treatment is in line with the latest and best European clinical practice. The second principle of choice is because the law imposes nothing, offers solutions. He doesn't impose anything. The third is the principle of maximum preservation of women and children’s health because of the use of modern mild, relatively mild hormonal stimulation that significantly reduces the risk of multiple pregnancies and thus reduces the risk of both women and children’s health. We have introduced the principle of justice, we have abolished discrimination because unfortunately our couples, women, too, have had to carry out infrequently painful, difficult, and painful procedures. The fifth principle, the principle of availability. You all like to be treated in your town, in your county, in your country and so do those in Croatia. Not in the Czech Republic, not in Slovenia, but in Croatia. And that's the principle of availability. And of course the sixth principle, the principle of participation, because especially you, and here I see people living in Canada, the United Kingdom, North America, very well know that the decoration of democracy is an NGO. Not just a decoration, but a fundamental correction of democracy. Therefore, in this Committee on IPO, representatives of the Association of Patients are also entering because we health professionals are making diagnosis, we are giving treatments, and our patients rarely know what obstacles they face every day in the exercise of their rights. You all know couples who unfortunately can't have children. That's every sixth couple in Croatia. You all know what kind of difficult, painful, painful procedure they're going through, you all know what kind of fears and desires, and even disappointments when they fail the procedure they meet. It's a difficult, uncertain process that doesn't always have to end with the child's salary, with happiness. And so, dear colleagues and colleagues, I ask you, when you debate, to make amendments, I have already received some, voted, if there is a vote during this week, take care of those neighbours, families, every six couples, 18% of them who can't have children, or 18% of them who have a diagnosis. In conclusion, infertility is a diagnosis, infertility is a disease treated by a global health organization. This law allows for the treatment of this diagnosis. So, this is a medical law that doesn't impose anything, but it's been sorting out an area that unfortunately hasn't been arranged for years. Thank you very much, dear colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13066	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. The first one came to Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13067	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's incorrect not to impose anything. It is clear that there are hundreds of thousands of Croatian citizens who do not agree with this worldview, but they are forced to pay out of their pockets anyway, finance the artificial fertilisation they consider, in this way by freezing traps to penetrate fundamental human rights, the right to life. So it is imposed and it is incorrect to say that this law does not impose anything, as it is incorrect to say that nothing imposes upon children that from the very beginning, they will be born without a father, they will only have a mother as this law suggests. That's what these kids are afraid to do. So it's incorrect that the minister mentioned that nothing is imposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13068	Thank you. Another correction, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13069	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister said this law was governed by an area that was unsettled. Inaccurate Mr. Minister, it was unsettled until 2009, when that Law on Health Measures on Decision-Making was in force. So, since 2009, it's been arranged to show results in 2010. 24% more children born after a medical insemination procedure, 34% more pregnancy. And I'm afraid, I'm saying, not that I'm afraid this law will make a mess, because it decides on life, death and fundamental values of society like family in marriage. It's a mess. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13070	Thank you. Do the representatives of the board want to take a word? Right in front of the Health and Social Services Committee, Biljana Borzana. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13071	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Committee on Health and Social Care at the 12th session of the Committee discussed the final law of the proposal on medically assisted fertilisation and pointed out that the law respects the level of medical science in this area, and included the Republic of Croatia in the order of the European States that settled the issue. The law opens the possibility of a choice in accordance with medical professions and practices in almost all European countries. In fact, the law respects the beliefs of those who oppose the freezing of mattresses in such a way that they can choose the model so far, but it also respects those who have a different view of life by considering that applying the method of freezing embryos has a better chance of progeny. The debate also discussed improvements in relation to first reading of the law, so new legal provisions allow the women's age limit to be moved to implement the procedures to help fertilise HZZO's burden after 42 years of life. They are also highlighted and complemented by whom persons with deprived business skills are brought into an equal position with other users of the procedures medically assisted fertilisation, as well as the possibility that psychological testing does not go to the patient's burden when the health care institution is not able to carry out the said treatment itself. During the debate, issues of justification for the protection of sex cells, tissues or embryos were also discussed, the issue of storage costs, and the end of the law's infringements. The audience agreed that it was primarily a medical law, a number of new legal provisions in a sensitive area of medicine that always arouses ethical, biological, cultural, and civilizational issues and dilemmas. However, the mission needs to be conducted, which is to enable all who, for health reasons, have no offspring to do so. After the discussion, members of the board unanimously voted with 7 votes to propose to the Croatian Assembly for the adoption of the Law on Medical Aided Insemination. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13072	Thank you, too. Anyone else in front of the board? No, I don't. Before we begin to discuss clubs, he would ask all his colleagues and colleagues, since it is a very sensitive and responsible subject, to pay attention to any spoken word that may well in the discussion perhaps hurt someone. I'm asking for tolerance and also for the responsibility of the debate, but it's always welcome. On behalf of HNS representative Sonja König and Igor Coleman, they shared the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13073	The Honorable Vice President of our Parliament, the Honorable Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. In these 64 days, as long as it was before the first debate on the proposal of the Law of Medical Helped Insemination, we in the CNS have not changed our opinion and the attitude that everyone has the right to decide whether or not he wants to be a parent. In these 64 days, we haven't, and we'll never change our attitude, that everyone has the right to decide whether one, none or more children want. No one can force you to make that decision. So neither by this law nor by any law, no one forces anyone to do anything, nor does anyone force anyone to do anything. This law opens up the possibility of a choice, the possibility that each person, in accordance with his worldview, will decide whether he wants to benefit from the proposed law. That decision cannot be made for anyone, nor can any religious community, nor can it be decided for anyone or by any association or state. But the job of the state is to make such regulations and laws that will enable anyone to make the best decision for his or her life according to these laws and laws. We believe in HNS that this law opens up the possibility of making such decisions. We are convinced that this law increases our citizens' chances of happiness and satisfaction because the proposed law increases the possibility of those who want children and struggles with infertility to become parents and that is why we will support this law and that is why the HNS Club supports the Law on Medical Breeding. Disabling the right to choose, endangering someone's health, denying and disobeying the knowledge and experience of the profession, all of it can be one state, all of it can be one policy, and all of it has passed politics and done so. This policy, this government in which the HNS plays a significant role in correcting the injustice that has been done to its citizens by the 2009 Medical Aided Insemination Act. It abolishes discrimination on grounds of marital or extramarital status and gives the right to medically assisted insemination and professionally capable women who do not live in a marriage or out-of-marriage community. This law allows the application of world standards in the treatment of infertility, respects the suggestions and opinion of experts who say that by fertilising a higher number of ova and freezing embryos, the overall success of fertilisation is increased, and thus the birth of a child. In fact, that also requires a healthy logic. The proposed law respects the principle of humanity, protects the life and health of women because it does not force them to additionally harmless stimulating hormonal procedures that are painful and proven mentally difficult to bear. But despite the fact that, compared to the 2009 law, a huge step in the spread of the right to medically assisted fertilisation to a large number of our citizens, this final proposal in one part is also a step backwards from the one from the first reading. In fact, this final proposal for a law in Article 10 explicitly restricts the right to medically assisted insemination of women of business who live in the same sex community. This provision is not only contrary to the Law on Gender Equality, this provision is not only contrary to the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination, this provision is not only contrary to the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights, this provision is contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia because all of those laws of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, as well as the European Convention, prohibits discrimination guaranteeing equality between all citizens and citizens, and commits to equal access to everyone who we are sex, religion, political or any other belief, regardless of which education we are, regardless of which we are sexual orientations. The Constitution of our country obliges us to have equal access to all and since this law is primarily medical and treats the disease right to treatment we need and enable everyone. And that's why we're proposing an amendment, if this House accepts it, we're allowing for the medically assisted insemination of all women who are struggling with infertility, whether they're married, extramarital or same-sex communities. This will show our colleagues and colleagues that we respect the Constitution of our country and prove that before the law, everyone is truly equal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13074	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow MPs and fellow MPs, Your Honor, Mr. Minister. So, indeed, this law has been discussed in the Croatian public for a very long time. Experts and associations of citizens and doctors and representatives of churches, religious communities and all those who considered themselves interested in this or that way in this discussion in the media talked a lot about it, organized round tables, sent letters. And in the end, we here in the Parliament seem to have thoroughly searched that law, and today as far as I can see, continue on that path. What is important to begin by stressing that such a broad public debate on such an important law is certainly a good thing for both Croatian society and for this law in itself and for our democratic and political culture, and it is certainly a positive process that has come out of this debate, regardless of how in other respects it disagrees on the proposal that is presented here. After we've heard all the arguments that we've come up with in HNS, we believe that our job here in the Parliament is to pass a law that will make it as easy as possible to dream about our own child to all people who want it, with the option of choosing the method that they want it to be. And that's where this law really takes a big step forward. Our second task is to keep this law sacred, not to be church. All those among us and in this regard do not think about us here in the Parliament, but all those among us in Croatia who are considered members of any religion have an obligation to adhere to the rules that their religion imposes on them and there is no relativating there. Either we are or we're not. But if we have to enforce those rules by the laws of the state then and I'm sorry to say it, then the churches don't do their jobs, and our work isn't church business. Our job is the work of a colleague state and a colleague. Minister Ostojić often points out that this law should discuss ideology less and is probably right because it really seems to me that we at the HNS club really do not understand that the issue of facilitating and enabling people to become parents is the issue of ideology or worldview. It seems to us to be a matter of common sense or elemental humanity. This is a question of helping our neighbors with the opportunities and achievements of modern science, and this really should not be a question of ideologies or worldview. But even less than the ideological question, this law is Jasenovac or Bleiburg. My colleagues and colleagues, such a hard insult has not been heard in the Croatian public for a long time. Comparing slaughterhouses, death fields with the law that brings life is an insult to all those in Croatia who are struggling with mental and physical pain to achieve an elementary human desire and need, which is to be parents and insult to all of us. But back to the law itself for a moment. In medical terms, it is indeed a major progress, and there is the minister of total management. It enables the application of modern procedures and respects the development of science, guarantees the quality and safety of procedures, regulates homologous and heterologous fertilisation, enables donation of both sex cells and embryos, regulates and stores of sex cells and sexual tissues, to indicate only some of the good things that this law adopts. There have also been some positive changes between the first and second readings in our opinion in this law, so it is possible to move the age limit for a woman and over 42 years, and it has been respected by the Ombudsman's proposal for persons with disabilities, allowing insight into the identity of potential half-brothers, or half-sisters, although I have to say this expression of half-brothers and half-sisters in this case can really be extremely conditionalally used at all. There's been a harmonized provision on the cost of legal and psychological counseling, thank you for that, Minister, it's really good to get along. To re-emerge only from some of the good aspects of this law that is before us. However, I will also slowly conclude, as I come and represent a party called the Croatian People's Party-Liberal Democrats, I need a political observation. This law is often among those who defend it and those who criticise it called it liberal. Those who criticize him often call it liberal. A liberal law called the Law on Medical Aided Insemination, not the law on the treatment of infertility, the Law on Medical Aided Insemination would allow for such proceedings to all, and what would possibly regulate would be who would be entitled to the procedure on the burden of the state budget, and who must bear the costs alone. The Liberal Law would not discriminate against people based on the type of relationship they are in or in which they are not what this bill still unfortunately does. So the HNS Club will support this bill, we really think it's a big step forward and that this law really deserves our support, but to colleagues and colleagues who fear it, I have to say that this law really isn't a liberal law right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13075	Thank you. We have six corrections of incorrect allegations of united exposure. The first one came to Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13076	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Inaccurately, the colleague said that this is a human law because it is not a matter of worldview but the science of the 21st century simply found that life begins with the origination and in the reasoning of this law exactly when it comes to the judgment of the European Court of Justice. So if science has said that life begins with conception, then that embryo is a living human being, then it's not humane to freeze it, and it's not in accordance with the Constitution of Article 21 where every human being says it has the right to live. Well, then let's respect the right to live for everyone, not just some. Of course, every child born is a blessing to their parents, and we can only agree on that and greet it, but may it be the same for everyone and not that some can accomplish it, and let living human beings go freezing.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13077	Thank you. Next correction, Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13078	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I would correct the incorrect assumption that this law imposes nothing. It is highly imposed, it is imposed on all the Croatian public by decision of 80 hands here, which will happen completely on Friday, we all know, that a law will be imposed by which a far, far greater number has a different opinion. However, the funding of the law is also imposed because, for example, it is imposed on one side, it is not fully clarified, but foreign citizens who can come to the burden of HZZO, so on the burden of all Croatian citizens, do the same because it does not appear anywhere that they can't do it. Any foreign citizen can do that. A significant cost is imposed. The budget provides for the distribution of the Ministry of Health about 40 million for this, but in this version of the law, it is transferred to the HZZO. It is possible to rebalance the budget to transfer the money to HZZO, but this does not provide for a full set of additional costs...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13079	It's time, fellow Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13080	The cost of the wrong storage of sex cells, which costs 100 to 150 euros a year, the freezing of mattresses, the false storage of mattresses, is not the most important thing that is not foreseen by law without any criteria...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13081	Vice President Reiner, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13082	Diagnostics 1,000 to 3500 kuna per patient. All of this will have to be paid by Croatian citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13083	Time, time. Thank you. Next correction, colleague Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13084	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll fix two false allegations. The esteemed representative said the HNS would support this law because there is no discrimination in it which is not true. He largely discriminates against the unborn child because the Convention on the Rights of the Child clearly states that the child has the right to both parents. And colleagues will vote for this bill because it allows all women medically assisted insemination. And that quote is not correct, allowing women who suffer from infertility.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13085	Thank you. The next amendment was reported by Dinko Buric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13086	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am correcting the false allegation that by adopting the kind of law that is before us today, we will prove that we are also worthy of constitutional provisions that speak of marriage, of the extramarital community and of the same-sex communities. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia does not mention the same-sex community anywhere, so it is incorrect because Article 62 says that the family is under special protection of the state, but defines that marriage and legal relations in marriage, the extramarital community and family are governed by law. Not a word of same-sex marriages and communities.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13087	Thank you. Next correction, Zoran Vinkovic. You're giving up, thank you, buddy. ... And the last correction by Stjepan Milinkovic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13088	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I've noticed a few incorrect allegations, and first of all, that this law imposes nothing. It imposes a very strong approach on which the vast majority of citizens of this country and who enter into the fundamental values of both family and marriage, etc. But my colleague Coleman said this law wouldn't be church. My dear colleague shouldn't be church mate, but the church has a legitimate right to manifest itself about the moral values that this is about, and in that sense, I think the church has something to say and everything that she said stood for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13089	Thank you very much. There was more correction of opinion than incorrect allegations, but okay. Next on behalf of the HDZ club Darko Milinovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13090	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister. Well, first of all, I have to say that I'm joining the appeal of the vice president of the Croatian Parliament that I'm not talking today about this law with increased tensions, because that's not good. And I appeal on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club to lower these tensions because they are unnecessary, but to discuss here today justified and consistent with the facts, including some of the data we have. And we appealed, if you remember when you passed this law. I'm particularly talking to the SDP club. We have urged that even then the debate be on one dignified level, and we have received a negative answer. Thank you Ministers for saying and in some ways opposed or having good information, because I see one of the SDP's amendments goes with the explanation that the current law has received poor results. We heard the minister, finally someone from the SDP, and he said that until now, last year and before last year, watch out, watch out for 1100 children and two years ago, under the old law, 500 or 680 children. Thank you, Mr. Minister, for that! If you had told the Croatian public this law won a great result, remember when we passed this law, when we at the HDZ Club were telling if it is not a better result than the applicable law we will try to change it for the better. What did we get in response? Croatia is the only country. This is a statement that borders on good taste. Croatia is the only country where infertility is impossible to treat. The current parliamentary representative and current Deputy Prime Minister Milanka Opačić. That statement further traumatized couples who are being treated for infertility, because I don't know if it's intentional. I don't think this statement was intentional. It was out of ignorance. Because both the mental state of a woman or a married couple can affect infertility. Since the moment of adoption of this law, every procedure of medically assisted insemination has been suspended in Croatia, and many private clinics announce their departure abroad at the same press conference from the same person. That's not good! At that point, it was not good to discuss the law at that level. You see how the truth comes out. Well, today we have more polyclinics. Have you heard that any of the privates or any of the polyclinics as you claim here in this law have gone and announced your departure abroad? No, I don't. In recent years, we have several new polyclinics that have been opened since the Law on Medical Insemination. But well, it's time behind us. Let's talk about today's law. What is not good as the basis of this law in the adoption of the budget we have reduced the budget by 10 million kuna for the proceedings of medical insemination. Ministers, you said in the first six months you'd cut the waiting lists, and the gentlemen in the first six months of the waiting list due to the reduced budget of the Ministry of Health have increased 30 to 50%. And the waiting lists for medical insemination, because we were the first in Europe we didn't have a waiting list. Today's waiting lists up to five to six months have been extended, they were gone at all. And that's why this bill and this law have been condemned to a worse result than it's ever been before. I don't know if you're running the fact, and you from the SDP, and we'll see that in the vote you're often calling as well as your colleague Hajdukovic didn't call here last week that he was Catholic, that he passed all the sacraments. Now we will see the width of the SDP whether the believers will support this law and by our unacceptable provisions. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, do you know that there are 15,000 frozen embryos in Croatia that no one cares about? The embryos as I guess we can agree here were all of us. What's going to happen with that 15000 embryos, a pretty big city this law doesn't fit, hasn't even answered the past law. But this law orders, almost orders that next year there will be another 15,000 so that we have 30 and 40,000. But you've united. Today, Croatia needs unity in any segment, but you have united religious communities in Croatia and that is good. As far as the data is concerned, we've had 37% more births, 25% more children, and 25.4% more pregnancy. Do you remember the great beautiful trains that moved to Slovenia for the sake of this law? Migration in this sense is generally known in the European Union and it is 5 to 10%, and now listen we are here below average. 5.3% of couples from Croatia go abroad for treatment as well as for all other diseases. But 64, 67 couples from abroad were treated right here with us. Why, when we call on the profession, we don't respect Paul Devroey's opinion. It is the Centre for Reproductive Medicine from Brussels, an extremely successful centre that said that in a few years it will not be frozen, but only egg cells. In just six months of education, and we haven't had a single pregnancy from a frozen egg cell. In only six months of education, about 30 children were born from a frozen egg cell. Instead of continuing to educate and provide additional education and to come to a European average that is now between 30% and 40% from frozen egg cells you play God's hands, you want to be with this law master of life and death. And the success from the frozen egg station is in Croatia today, we don't have data for this last year, and for which we have 20% from zero to 20% but this law is written, I'd say here's the treasure, sloppy. In the first sentence, it's a lie. The first sentence says in the reasons for this legislative proposal the legislation of the Republic of Croatia is in line with EU legislation. That's not true! No, how is it possible that the law we have aligned with the EU is now being re-coordinated? That's incorrect. Do not cover the EU with this law because the EU does not care how we regulate these things here. But he's deep and in certain segments discriminating. Article 7 says this: "The remaining embryos that have not been introduced into women's sex organs are kept on the burden of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute for up to 5 years." After that, if a couple won't, you don't have an answer, you don't have a series of answers in the law. What if a couple after five years won't keep their cover for the next five years? You don't have an answer, but you say, "After a five-year period, you're stuck with the donor's consent to give birth." And what if they're not going to give them away? A hole in the law. After five years, you don't have an answer for what happened to the traps. Unacceptable! As I don't know in the justice system, you don't have an answer for how many years he's in jail, or you need to get that the legislator didn't say that after I don't know some kind of murder. Article 11 of the existence of an out-of-marriage comrades proves to be a public notary. Remember when I suggested it and you inherited it. Remember when HDZ proposed such a law. What will you burden couples with various papers, various procedures? Why so many administrations? And I can see that, of course, without that, he can't go on. But that's also the story, so it's not like married couples who suffer from infertility are mentally distraught and sick of having to go to psychological tests. So here you are before the implementation of the homologous fertilisation procedure, or extramarital comrades can be provided psychologically and psychotherapy. It can be homologous, but it can't be heterologous. And why is that? Is it the same? Since you allow homologous and heterologous insemination, why are you going to psychological testing? Well, for a reason, you'll have to prepare a couple. Because of the four procedures, one works, if that's the case. To prepare for that painful fact when a gynecologist tells you no, it didn't work or when a woman finds out she didn't make it. So what now? More heterologic pain than homologous medical insemination? Well, it's the same pain, and that's why these tests are. But as I'm getting closer to the time, I have to say one very discriminatory piece of information, which is that you provide medical insemination to a woman who doesn't have a partner. And you'll vote that, I hope you won't, that you'll postpone the application of this law and vote until autumn, that in 15 days 130 thousand signatures mean something to you. But now put yourself in the position of gynecologist. There's a woman A and a woman B. They don't have a partner and they want to go to artificial insemination. And this law says a woman can go to artificial insemination if she suffers from infertility. And now you haven't even prescribed what tests should be written and conducted. So, person A and person B, two women come to me as a gynecologist. I want to go into a medical insemination procedure. I have to determine that one of them or whether he suffers from infertility, and then he can go through with it. Now look at the contradiction of this law. Person A, we've done all the tests and we said this is how you're healthy, but you can't go to medical insemination. Why? Because you're not sick. Look at the contradiction. And the other woman whose laparoscopy you find, I don't know any alienated eggs or any hormonal defect, if you can. So is that discrimination, if you allow it? So is that discrimination in that sense? You have two wives and now one is happy because she's healthy, but she's unhappy because she can't get into medical insemination. And a series of these, we don't have any more time, but I'll see later, maybe in an individual debate, there's just a need to force you, and I'll say that, to postpone the vote on this law, to expand the public debate. Because in 15 days, 130 thousand signatures have to make you do it in some way. We are in a Christian and traditional Catholic country. So keep that in mind. He said Churchill's love of tradition never weakens the nation actually gives her extra power in difficult moments. Is there a difficult time for this nation? Not only because of this Law on Medical Insemination, but also because of other things. Protect the child, protect your life, and do not vote on it on Friday, allow the Croatian people mostly Catholic, but also all religious communities of others to say their word, two more about this law. And I'll finish, said Ciceron, let your longings lead to reason. Mr. Minister, let your longings liberalize this law lead to reason and realize that you are not an extended hand of God and realize that you are not the master of life and death.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13091	Thank you, too. The Minister called in his word. Before I just give the word to the minister after fellow Milinovic wanted to quote in some way, I did not show that there are tensions here but I called for tolerance. ... Yeah, yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] All right, I see. I figured you'd figured it out. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13092	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. When I see you here in five years, believe me, the debate will be much calmer. Believe me, the debate will be much more democratic. It's amazing that a law that wants to help every sixth couple causes divisions. Infertility is a diagnosis, a disease treated as such by the World Health Organization. My colleagues and colleagues, this is a law that regulates the treatment of this diagnosis. This law, this medical law, of course, that because of the whole series, I will not return to Milinovic in the past and draw papers, quotes from electronic or written media, because the past cannot be changed. We all made it there, 49 minutes and 6 seconds, and what we said in those 49 minutes, we can't change. I am convinced that many of us, many of us are who I may be, even though I am a cautious man to withdraw his statements from a few months ago, a few years ago. I'm sure many of us would stop the Reuters. So please, this diagnosis, infertility is a diagnosis, googl now, the IKB International Classification of Diseases. This is the law that treats that diagnosis. And you're right fellow Milinovic, you've been waiting for them to grow here, you're right because couples are waiting, part of couples, accept it, waiting for an optimal method they haven't had in years, and that's why waiting lists have grown. I agree, and I am convinced that you, as a humanist, altruist, will vote for this law, because of these waiting lists, because of these patients. And this law that is now in force, so this old one, and adopted on July 17, 3 years ago, so exactly 3 years ago, allows for freezing, the current law of as many as 3 egg cells. What was going on in practice? If a woman or a couple wants to return to two embryos, think about where he ended up with three embryos, think about it. This law regulates it, so it doesn't end, this law that I now propose, which suggests this government better protects the embryos from the existing one. Think about it, talk to your colleagues. This law that's in front of you now better protects the embryos from the existing one. Because what happened in practice is a couple say I want two envelopes where they ended up third? It is clear to me, and it is clear to you that healthcare was not part of ACQUIS legal gain, because the European association has at least 5 European systems, Anglo-Saxon, Bizmarkov, Beveridge, Frankophilic and do not forget the Shemash system in the countries of Eastern Europe. That's why he wasn't part of ACQUIS, that's why there's no Pan-European healthcare system. Optimists say the Pan-European Health System will be 2025 pessimists in 2040. Because it's complex. Isn't that part of ACQUIS but therefore there are European directives, and this law respects European directives and therefore has an EU mark. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13093	Thank you, Minister. We have three corrections. The first one was Dinko Buric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13094	I thank Your Honor, Mr. Minister, for correcting your incorrect claim that this law is causing divisions in society, and basically behind it is the desire to help every six couples. It's true that he wants to help every six couples, but division doesn't cause that desire, to help every six couples, but to divide this bill. They challenge at least 2 things, it's the fact that this bill allows MPO to give a child and also to same-sex communities. And the other fact that causes division in Croatian society is not to help every six pairs, but to create excess living things whose destiny in most cases is death or not to God experiment on living beings or to give God not even trade.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13095	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13096	It causes division, not a desire to help couples.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13097	Thank you. Next correction by Darko Milinovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13098	Thank you very much. Well, the truth is that the waiting lists are extended because there is an optimal possibility of treatment. Because of the lack of money, because of 10 million kunas less in the budget. Minister, let me know more about this. 96% of the procedures, pregnancy in AVF procedure goes from a fresh embryo transfer, and only 4% of these 1100 children, which we have for the first time in Croatia over 1000 children, I think 30 or 40 were born from, in fact, 20 from frozen embryos. This law, you say better protects the embryo than... This law doesn't protect him at all, this law doesn't know what to do with these distractions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You were afraid to write as in 2002 that you would let go, in that law there was a suggestion that you would let the embryo die. Do not give women, women in this House, in Croatia, to destroy your egg cells if you put them in reserve, frozen after 5 years. This law says egg cells are destroyed after five years...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13099	Time, buddy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13100	...and then a woman is informed that her egg cell has been destroyed. Don't give it to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13101	Thank you. Next correction by Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13102	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Secretary didn't want to help infertile couples cause divisions. The divisions were caused when at the very beginning of this story by email you replaced the members of the Insemination Committee. When Prime Minister Milanovic explained that they had been replaced because of their worldview, it caused divisions, that boast that you were referring to this issue, which is a question of life.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13103	That was also my colleague Stier's opinion. Next debate by clubs, on behalf of the SDP, Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13104	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. Therefore, a lot of debates and barrels have caused this law, both in this term and on two occasions when we discussed it in the last term. A lot has been said in this law. Sadly, much has been heard from those who, because of their attitudes or lifestyles, would never have been treated with aided fertilization, and relatively little have been heard by those who naturally cannot have children, who want to use all the scientific achievements in this field. We have already pointed out on several occasions today that this is primarily a medical law that helps people who can't have children naturally on the way and I must express regret for the excessive politicization of this law that these people have remained in the other plan, and these people are the ones that matter. They need to be helped to make the most of the medically assisted fertilization procedures as successfully as has been successfully completed in 40 million cases worldwide, so 40 million children worldwide have been born precisely because of this way. This is all over the story and the most important how the most modern methods of treatment and diagnostics respecting ethical principles help these people. I want to point out that this is the law of choice. It does not concern all people, such as the VAT Act, only those who cannot have offspring naturally and do not commit anyone to anything or those who have a problem do not have to consume this law at all. People are therefore given a choice which is the basis of democracy. This law maximumly goes to those who need fertilisation, and at the same time reduces the possibility of abuse and manipulation to a minimum. A similar law applies in 135 countries of the world and Croatia is therefore not an exotic country. I've often faced a lack of understanding why so much noise rises around this subject. Also the other day on the Health Committee, some of the comments from HDZ colleagues were in the direction of why this law is being voted right now and not autumn. I stress that the public debate lasted almost three months and then nearly three months passed between the first and second readings. There's been a lot of time, and there's been a fight and there's going to be a fight. I understand all the differences in opinions, but this is a subject that obviously we can hardly reach a consensus, even if we postpone this law by six months or six years. Even if we don't get into the debates and arguments that this law voted precisely this very time three years ago, an explanation of why it's actually very simple right now. It is our duty that if this is possible, as soon as possible, to declare all those laws that are finished in the process because they simply influence a larger or smaller number of people in our country. Desperate people to whom this law concerns justifiable impatience wait when we MPs are going to pass this law and they don't need to be surprised why they're in a hurry. A person who has not found himself in such a situation may find it difficult to understand impatience but that is completely understandable when considering the fact that the desire for offspring or the urge to maintain a species is something that is deeply instilled in every human being. It's just touching what all those who want to have children are willing to do and can't. This law is important for a number of reasons. One is, as has already been said, what directly affects almost a fifth of couples in the Republic of Croatia, so couples who cannot have children. It is also important because it directly affects the birth rate in the Republic of Croatia. We are, by economic indicators, a medium-developed country, but unfortunately, according to the birth rate, we belong to highly developed countries where birth is in significant decline. The task of the Parliament and the duties of the Parliament and of each government is to try to slow down that trend, or vice versa. In their first reading, they emphasized that the difference between the current law and the possibility of freezing embryos is important. According to the current law, women who are going into medically assisted fertilisation each time would have to go through a painful, traumatic and female health risky hormone stimulation process after a failed procedure. It should not be ignored that this procedure is not only painful, it costs quite a bit. It doesn't matter if it costs an individual or a state but it's just a cost that can be avoided. In addition, it is far more important that in all these methods that this law foresees in the second reading the success of the procedure rises to a high 60%. Most important of all, by freezing embryos, we give the chance for offspring and those who would no longer have that chance because of sickness or accident. In the second reading, the law has improved somewhat in line with the suggestions of NGOs, lawyers for people with disabilities, etc. One of the things that has been observed is the strict restriction that medically assisted fertilisation procedures can only be subjected to women up to 42 years of age, so this law extends this possibility if the doctor assesses that this is possible in view of the health status of the woman. The aided insemination is also enabled for people who are deprived of their business ability which I consider important because it is on the one hand in accordance with our Constitution, and on the other hand I believe that a person with disabilities can certainly be as good a parent or perhaps better than a healthy person. The SDP Club has also tabled an amendment to this draft law which, according to our proposal, will change in a way that will not be able to identify the previous procedures that women have submitted. ð This amendment will allow fair treatment conditions for all who have not achieved the desired pregnancy by treating infertility. Finally, I want to say that it is a great responsibility for us to pass a law that will be based on scientific medical achievements, a law that makes it possible for couples who cannot naturally have offspring to facilitate this painful and uncertain procedure, a law that will finally give those concerned a break, a law that will enable them to arrive at all as many healthy children as possible to make their parents happy. I believe that this bill will achieve that goal. I will repeat what I said in the previous debate at first reading, this law will finally reverse the situation so far and we will make clear when the heart says the government says yes. The SDP club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13105	Thank you. We have three corrections. First responds Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13106	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. The esteemed representative said wrongly, and I would like to correct that if the representatives of those who are actually tangled or who cannot reach the children did not appear. They sure did, but they stopped by so they wouldn't agree with this bill. In particular, representatives of the Association with the Infertility Problem "Beta2 on behalf of infertile couples have tabled proposals that have not been accepted. Representatives of the Roda Association have also tabled proposals that have not been accepted. And it should be made clear, although it is said that there have been 3 months plus 3 months of public debate during that time not one single remark either by these Associations of Infertility, the Association of Parents in Action, or by any other association, nor by any other objection has been accepted except for a few very modest remarks by lawyers who have only been accepted and are found in such a bill, and nothing else has been accepted at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13107	Thank you very much. Next correction, Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13108	Comrade Borzan, we have agreed to discuss this in an argument. So you can't say that, according to the current law, women have to go to hormonally stimulated ovulation that, of course, women go through certain and psychological tortures, we can say that freely. Well, there's frozen egg cells, so it doesn't have to go to hormonally stimulated ovulation every time. You know that, I know that, and let's not lie to the Croatian public then. But you have to watch this, you have to pay attention to this, look at this incomprehensible provision of this law. In the event of the death of one or both persons, the embryo is donated. Now, gentlemen, let's go to the tragedy of one find, and we find them in traffic every day, that their husband and wife die, they have a frozen embryo, and you say we can donate it to whoever we want. Or he says if one of them gets killed, that means if a wife dies, the husband doesn't ask himself anything, or if the husband dies, the husband doesn't ask himself anything. I'm sure you'll go to the market for Dolac and tell me who's going to cover it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13109	A colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13110	That, don't vote this bill until the summer break.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13111	Comrade Milinovic, your time is up and I appeal to tolerance again. ... I mean, I wouldn't want to comment so that someone wouldn't rephrase me, or answer me with an injury. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm asking you colleagues, mentioning the market in that case, I'm asking you to be more patient. And the next amendment to Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13112	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Borzan, you say this law is in line with ethical principles. I wonder if it's ethical to freeze human beings, is it ethical to condemn some children to be born without a father, and it doesn't have to be so. Is it ethical to ask those who believe that this violation of the fundamental human right to life must be financed by such a system? Is that ethical? Perhaps it is all ethically neutral to you as Prime Minister Milanovic told another case, the Cacic case, but I do not think it is ethical or moral.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13113	Comrade Stier, you've been correcting your opinion again. Correction of an incorrect quote here's a new Rules of Procedure we'll have a real possibility of replicating and not having these doubts, either you or me. Thank you. Next up for debate on behalf of Croatian Labour Club Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13114	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The law on medically assisted insemination is not politics, it is life and should be understood as such. It must contain something deep human, and it is the idea that people have the right to become parents. This law as such is a possibility. Let's try him as such and accept him. A possibility I'll accept, or I won't accept. From the first to the second reading of this law, everyone was convinced that they would have the right to say what they meant as well as what they wanted. People spoke, suggested, suggested. Some of this has been respected, we have heard this, a proposal from the Ombudsman for persons with disabilities, a proposal from the Advocate General for Gender Equality, as well as that a patient over 42 years of age is respected the discretionary right of medical professionals to enable MPO, psychological evaluations on the burden of HZZO, and to this the ministers are thanked on behalf of all those people whose voice you have heard. I won't go too far in scientific trouble. We've got too many doctors here, doctors who here are dealing with this policy. I will try only today to pass on what parents who are in the process of medical help fertilization and in some way their voice say here today, and all of this I don't think we can influence anymore. The final proposal for a law on medically assisted fertilisation as such carries restrictions that can potentially cause even more damage to patients currently in the process of medical fertilisation. Article 62(2) of the final proposal opens up the possibility of retroactive application of the law which would damage all infertile couples who have been treated according to the existing applicable law, because in the quota of the number of attempts to treat HZZO would be counted both retroactively and so far. The main objection of infertile couples who started the process of medically assisted fertilisation under the existing law is that they were forced to go abroad and that they lost the most prospective years to achieve parenthood, to get closer to getting out of the fertile age, and that they were financially and credited, and that now this new bill would take them away from them the right to a new chance, optimal medical assistance that could forever shut their parents' doors. And we have to keep in mind that it's very hard to tell the couple that the only reason I can't have the baby money is because I can't have it. The provision on the anonymity of male sex-cell donors will affect the drastically reduced number of donations that also raises the issue of heterologous fertilisation in the Republic of Croatia and will continue to go abroad with questionable cost-refundability to HZZO. Also, the explanation of this final proposal states the unanonymity of the donor of the sex cells, i.e. the embryos prescribed to protect the child's right to know its own origin as protected by the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which the Republic of Croatia and ratified, in Article 7. That paragraph 7 states that a child as far as possible has the right to know who his parents are. The question is, who's the parent? The Committee on the Rights of the Child, to which countries submit regular reports on the application of the Convention, criticises the non-application and endangerment of such rights. In the case of medically assisted fertilisation by a donated sex cell, it cannot be claimed that it is not possible to determine the origin of the child. In addition, this prescribed right of the child reflects modern understandings in development psychology, child psychiatry, that clear knowledge of its own origin forms a healthy social identity of the individual, his mental identity, and the possibility of building quality personal relationships with other persons. It is exceptional to refer to the Convention on the Rights of the Child, given that a limit of 18 years has been set when a person initiated by the IPO process becomes commercially capable and adult, so we can no longer talk about the child, i.e. I believe that calling on this above is said, that the right of the child is a reflection of the contemporary concepts, in fact, of the unwielded remainder of the previous version of the bill in which it was thought to set the age of 14 years when those children conceived by the IPO would have learned information about biological parents, so here perhaps to pay little attention to that. The advantages of this law can also be said by couples who are in the medically assisted insemination process say that they are better than the existing law. However, we also cite shortcomings. The retroactive application of laws where procedures are cumulatively summed up in those who have initiated the procedure under the current donor's non-anonymity law, a limited number of procedures to the HZZO burden which will transfer some of the costs to patients. As for the freezing of embryos, I fear that, with the possibility, or choice of all infertile couples, it is also a big question that we have not fully answered. And not just because of religious principles, but because of the conscience of all those who in the process medically help fertilization freeze their embryos. When we want a child, we will agree unspeakably, absolutely not asking a lot of questions about what is behind it and where it is going. However, when the time comes to bear the responsibility of our own decisions, it is very important to us where and how these embryos end. So here's the minister once again to say a lot more about this. In the end, I'll look back on principles. We have six of them that we mention so often. It's my favorite two. This is the principle of optimal treatment and the principle of availability. As regards the principle of optimal treatment, infertility should be treated because we have established that infertility is a diagnosis without making any financial restrictions. When the budget was passed, and when you ministers negotiated with each other, how much and what I think you did some kind of wrong deal and giving up half a billion kuna on the budget burden of the Ministry of Health has led to very certain restrictions. This is probably the price of your deal. These restrictions are great, but anyone who regularly pays his entire life span additionally, i.e. compulsory health insurance restrictions of a financial nature should absolutely not be interested. However, these restrictions hurt him for a reason because infertility is a diagnosed disease. Everyone is convinced that they have the right to treat that diagnosis until they are well again for a reason. But with this law, unfortunately, we deny it. As for the second principle, which is the principle of availability of medically assisted insemination, not everyone will be able to benefit and exploit in the most optimal way, not those who do not have the money to feel the satisfaction of parenting. Where the family is valued for help and health care should be free of charge, and what makes the family stronger, better, nicer, richer are children. We are very sensitive to the desire for people to have a family and we have to strive and do everything possible to make every woman who wants to become a mother really try to become one. At the beginning of your presentation, you said the Prime Minister's basic premise. Infertility is a disease, a disease should be treated. Everyone deserves it, even infertile couples. I hope that the amendments submitted, and the Labour Club has two, will be accepted, and that in the end, wisdom and logic that you have addressed will still prevail. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13115	Thank you, too. We have a correction to the incorrect quote, Darko Milinovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13116	The Honorable representative thanked the minister very much. To correct the incorrect allegations, it is not necessary to thank the minister that women over 42 can go into the process of medical insemination. Because you haven't read this current law. We've been delinquent and thousands of women have gone into medical insemination procedures for over 40 years. You don't have to thank the Minister for that. It is also in the current law, and availability, for availability you also do not need to thank the minister. Well, the minister admitted that we were the first in Europe. There was no waiting list for medical insemination. Today she's six months old. And the wings of some who were mentioned today, says when the heart says child, the government says yes. But when a kid says "Dad," the government says no, no.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13117	Thank you. The minister called in his word. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13118	Col. Milinović, dear colleague Milinovic, it is best to give the amendment for which we should commend you all, so we will welcome it, if we should commend it, so that is not the problem. Well, you know I commended your work. We'll thank you all for what you need, but give it a little bit when you're replicating, take care of your feelings. So you're being followed on the T-portal, followed by portals, by people watching you. You say you're a humanist, an altruist. Keep an eye on the words of those women and couples. And I repeat, you're right, I just can't commend you. You're right there wasn't a waiting list because all those who wanted an optimal way couldn't do it in Croatia but went abroad. You're right there was no waiting list because couples were driven out, those who wanted optimal treatment. And for everything else I'm going to repeat 6,500 procedures, about 1,100 children and everything else write a list, give it to me, e-mail it to me now, I'm going to commend you for everything you've done, but it's hard when a man praises himself. There's someone else looking at you. Don't brag about the man himself. And we're not here, colleagues and colleagues, for results, for numbers, for comparisons. We're for the quality of these people's lives. Each, colleague Milinovic, each child is an immense happiness. And you know that the impact on that happiness is complex and that it's not just a question of the fertilization of egg cells, embryos, etc., etc. I appeal, I appeal to all of you, so sometimes that's what happens to me when a man brings in, and the words are unsympathetic. Write to me at the end of the show I'll tell you everything that's done well. I'll repeat what's unfortunately not good, which I don't think is good, but let's not keep comparing. And don't thank me, pal Tyrelli, nothing. Yeah, I don't need to be thanked. I'm just spending it on behalf of all those to whom we owe it. Don't thank me, that's not necessary. It's just that it's not my fault. It's a credit and obligation, it's a mission, us who are health professionals. Our mission is simple, help. And we don't need that thank you. It's my favorite when they tell me God will help you. I know that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13119	Thank you. We have a correction to an incorrect quote, colleague Darko Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13120	I say again, here we start a little bit now, we move on to demagogy leaving out the facts. The waiting lists were extended due to 10 million kunas because the health minister agreed to 10 million kunas less for medical fertilisation, not because migration was like this or that. There are official data – 5.3% is migration from Croatia, so out, and in Croatia there was 2.3%. Nothing more, nothing less than an old law and nothing more and nothing less to be under some new law. I asked the same thing, and that's where we agree with the honourable representative not to praise you. Here's why I'm a little supportive.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13121	Thank you. Next on behalf of the IDS club Damir Cain. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13122	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. Yes, many have said before me that there are many doctors in this House and they are certainly far more competent than those who do not talk about this law. It is among us, well it is not here now, and Don Grubisic who can certainly defend one church norm, dogma, unfortunately it is not here. To be clear, everyone was talking about the church. I'll talk about it. I, too, deeply respect the Church's position, respect that attitude, respect, so if you will and accept it, it does not mean that I share their judgment in every matter. For example, this medically assisted fertilization. Yesterday, Mr. Rebic said something like this that doctors, indirectly he meant the government, are doing exactly what Hitler was doing. Literally so, Free Dalmatia from today. And I say gentlemen, whoever you think you are, you can just impute everything to this government. You can say that it's converted, you can say that it's failed, you can say it's not ethical, but you pull a parallel with some Nazism, Fascism can't do it. Yesterday we also listened, here it is, here is the New List, the biggest tragedy of the Croatian people by the HDZ Jasenovac, Bleiburg and the baby from the test tube. The strongest opposition party published a paper on the Law on IPO comparing it with Nazi techniques; eugenics, Nazis, destruction of the fundamental values of Croatian society, incest, HDZ in Ostojić's Law on page 2 and 3. Look how beautiful these kids are, huh? They're a little angry... I'm not advertising the New List, there's no need. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here, I'm not advertising. ... Look at the kids, huh? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So why aren't they pretty? They're a little angry, but they're pretty. Thus, no one can compare them with Bleiburg, no one can compare them with the evil of a Jasenovac. I'm not going to quote our bishops, I'm not going to make their firm views, but if they had the opportunity to decide, they would have prevented the birth of the son of God from happening 2,000 years ago. It's literally like that. I agree, gentlemen, an unborn child is considered to be born. So it was during Rome until these scientific discoveries that enable it, as we have heard here, that "infertile woman" can begin. We can remember that and the Bible. So, the church absolutely, it has to perform, it has to perform around every question, but sometimes not as it does. It's clear in her letter that she's speaking, but threats can't be anyone's message. It's conceived, not born children who can and accept children. What is their destiny? Someone's gonna say a long ice age. But is there more, more human, if we really want God’s Christian things than the birth of a child? I personally don't think so. We're all talking today or talking to us, so you're dealing with marginals, so you're dealing with same-sex marriages, collective agreements this morning, but there's no more important thing for society, for the community, for the family, for the future if we really want for the Church than the birth of a new child, our child. I repeat, there is no greater gift than a new being. It can't be. Okay, I understand the position of the Church, but the rest of us, unlike them, may not have to live in celibacy. We have the right to look forward to a new being. Clearly, the church is looking forward to life, far from it. In fact, we have rights, unlike perhaps church dignity, to a dignitary, to hope for a descendant, heir, to a child, to what the people would say, to our blood. I agree with biology and medicine, and what I know about nature, so faith, so law is sometimes very cruel. And that's true, but I'm saying there's no bigger one, there's no more valuable gift than a child, so he was conceived as some of us get it or as one of us says from a test tube. That child is our child, yours, mine doesn't matter. That's our blood. I agree, some will say by artificial insemination of the one that is born will freeze 3.4.5 I don't know how many, six embryos. But let no one expect me at this point to say that 1 more than 4.5.6 but in this case I dare say that one more than 4.5 or 6. 1 living being is more than 4.5.6 embryos, however inhuman my attitude may sound. We all call to church, which is why I call myself, the church has the right to express itself, and I respect it deeply. It doesn't matter that this church, what they call an episcope, a master's office, doesn't matter. He never said of HDZ governments that he passed a law that is deeply inhuman or immoral. They never said that, they talked about the sin of the structure, that's what Bozanic said when he came to the head of the Zagreb Archbishop. But in this case, I'm deeply convinced they're wrong. And therefore I would also say, gentlemen of the bishops ask your believers if they would agree to be a test of children or of artificial insemination and children, pardon that aided fertility, as the law says. Many Christians who are far more moral, far more enlightened, far more ethical than me would agree to a law that will give them a child. And all those children tomorrow, they will be baptized, they will be honored, they will be bermans. They'll have all the sacraments, okay, that's less important, they'll be good people, they'll be good husbands, they'll be good women, or as they say. And indirectly, then, all of us are the children who will give us a future. Some will be representatives in this House, others will be ignorant, top doctors when we talk about this law, some will be engineers, others will be plumbers, mechanics, waiters, and some may become priests, bishops, archbishops, etc. The Church seeks a referendum and I say why not, dear gentlemen. I would give you this referendum right now, because I know if the people were to be explained that referendum, they wouldn't pass. I won't say again, I won't say that one child born is worth more than 5.6 not born, frozen, but without children born, there's neither living nor living church. I respect the fact that the church judges the living, that it judges the dead, but this is about the children, and that's why I don't think it should be touched. You don't have to touch that, because it's a lot of people in this country sacred, no more valuable, no more, higher things than the simple birth of a child. In same-sex marriages or couples, I agree, let's talk, this law does not offer the possibility of conception, what the minister of lesbians was saying, born without money, we heard different attitudes. If that were the case, it would be absolutely fine for me. This law doesn't talk about homosexual couples, and then the church doesn't have to touch life. I don't think this is the best law in Europe, as it once did, if he said it I don't know, said Minister Ostojic, I read somewhere. This is probably one of a series of good European laws, this is probably one of the laws that the Croatian couples will benefit from the next day, at least I want to believe. And if that's the case, then my church and yours will benefit. And if they benefit from all that, first of all infertile couples, then I said, "Well, it's gonna be good company, church, and then it shouldn't be against one of these laws." I agree that all these ethical courts that we have the right to discuss deep, what the people say, "The truth is the water is deep.", faith is water deep, ethics is water deep. And everyone's kind of right, but I assure you that one of the top priorities at this point is to help infertile couples have children. And for the third, fourth time I don't know which, for the fifth time I assure you, those children will be the joy of their parents, there will be the joy of this community, but our society will be the joy of our church. The Church has the right to call it all, in all things I can support it, well I won't support it around Bleiburg, I want it around Crossways, but you bishops don't have the right to touch it in any such way. I said before, I may have exaggerated a little bit that by you, there would be no birth of the son of God, but we all agree it was a miracle, and those who believe, we who went bowing down to the star of Bethlehem, and were in Bethlehem rejoiced in this miracle. I don't think this Ostojic law is what we called the best law in Europe. But I do think that if we can only help one couple, one such law should be supported. Why? Because this law, that's how I at least experience it, I'm a layman, I see the law as helping infertile couples. I always thought the child was the greatest treasure of parents, of society, of churches, and that's why I think this law should be voted on. The minister just said that every six couples in this country are childless. He said that infertility is a disease, such as this law allows for treatment, these are his quotes. Mr. Darko Milinovic said the waiting lists were increased by 30 to 50%, total health care. For medically assisted insemination from 0 days to 5 or 6 months. If we had 15 grand frozen children, that number would be 30 grand the next day because of the law. But if there is only one child born in 2013 more born than in 2011 using this methodology etc. I personally believe that it will be the success of Minister Ostojić or those who have proposed this law and who will act under this law. Maybe at least by us who will vote for this law. Mrs. Borzan said we're raising this success of conception to 60%. If that's how I don't know, then let's vote for it. So when the heart says the child the government really should say that when the child says the dad says Milinovic's heart says I don't know the child without the mother doesn't go, we know that with the father we'll always be a little easier, if it doesn't go differently then we have here medically assisted fertilization. But when the heart says a child, I think it's a speech of happiness, and that's why we should in some way give a positive opinion on this bill and we'll appreciate the results of that law 2013. If it comes to having only one child more born based on these conditions than we had in 2011 it will be a great success above all, the Ministry of Health and Minister Ostojić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13123	Thank you. We have six papers on your hearing. The first one is Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13124	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So Agent Cain spoke of a very sensitive question in a very banal manipulative way, and I would correct his claim, which he supported by manipulating newspapers that children in the picture are evil and tragedy for HDZ. No, these children are happiness and joy for all of us but the tragedy is that they are traps or frozen human beings whose fate is unknown, undefined and that thousands of Mr. Cain may end up in the trash. So living things aren't going to be the way you saw it. They're going to end up somewhere where none of us know. And it's a tragedy and that's why HDZ is against that law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13125	Thank you. Next came Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13126	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In the end, at least a colleague of Cain tried to make amends after he had truly made an unseen statement that even Jesus would not be born by the bishops. Such an insult to those feelings to the Blessed Virgin Mary that indeed here at least in the end he tried but it earned me a reminder. But he said something that was completely untrue and that was that these children showed the pictures were identical to the crime. No one has ever said that, and don't let the children, every child born is a blessing to their parents and what is being warned about what is going on with children with living things that are freezing about it. But it's not about the beginning of life that religious feelings are about to correct you. It's the science of the 21st century and you went back to the Middle Ages when life was believed not to begin with conception.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13127	Thank you. It's hard to think Mr. Cain said his opinion in that first part of what you said. I'm not answering for a debate because I have no right, but when my colleague Stier was correct, I didn't give you my word. I have the right to comment because my colleague Stier has called me to deserve a warning. I'm just interpreting, I said I couldn't. Allow your colleague Luciæ when I give you my word then speak. My colleague Lucius I beg you to be correct when I'm done if you ask me for a word, I'll give you my word and then say it. A colleague, Stier, said in a correction to the incorrect allegations that a fellow member should have been warned. I said I couldn't give a warning. And it wasn't the level to make that reminder I just wanted to comment on. And also, colleagues, let's be correct and stick to the Rules of Procedure. You should've, I'm not delirious with you fellows, but I'm just giving an interpretation as chairman, and as a leader, I have the right to do that. Please, nice. The following came forward for the correction of counterpart Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13128	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My friend Cain, I'm correcting your false quote you said at one point only one living being more than four to five embryos. It's proof that you don't understand that the embryo is a living thing. There can't be one living being more than 4.5 living beings. And here we come to a basic problem that is based on all of our different opinions the basic problem is to create excess living things. And I have to correct the incorrect allegations that was made here, even by Mr. Secretary. 30 million children are not born in the world through this IPO process but 5 million children, but at least 30 million are thus killed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13129	Thank you. We have the next amendment to Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13130	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Cain incorrectly said that the church was making threats. Well, that's an incorrect colleague of Cain's, absolutely. The Church warns of certain harmfulities that will arise under this law. It advocates the love and fundamental values of family, marriage, and life. You said you appreciated the church, and at the same time you present the flat-rates of the unseen and unheard of by fellow Stier. Well, then you're talking episcopal. The Croatian Bishop's Conference was clear where it warns that this law is unconstitutional and many other fundamental values are ordered please nice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13131	Thank you, too. Ante Babi. Here's your colleague, Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13132	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, it's hard to report for a correction of an incorrect quote after my colleague corrected almost everything I thought, but fortunately I wrote down what Mr. Cain was saying, so there are 6, 7, 8 incorrect allegations. I'll tell one of those who hasn't been mentioned. It is not true that Christians were likely referring to Catholics but generally do not agree to medically assisted insemination. That's not true. They agree to medically assisted insemination but do not agree to endanger the headquarters of the family society and try to equate them with other forms of common life that cannot be compensated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13133	Thank you, too. And the last correction, Darko Milinovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13134	Well, here's what I'd like to correct is the incorrect quote of the esteemed representative Cain so the referendum doesn't pass. Don't worry about it, it's evidence of Slovenia recently where such and similar legislation has fallen. Now, it depends on whether the referendum goes beyond the question, and don't worry, we'll explain to people what this law allows, and we'll say allows the following. One woman wants to become a man and with a plastic surgery, her external sexual traits are male. Now that man has the right to insemination. Well, when we get naked like that and when we say the Emperor is naked in this law, don't worry that in this democratic land, 90% of Catholics...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13135	My friend Milinovic, you haven't corrected the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13136	That this is not the law if you bring it down. Don't pass this law, delay it for at least another broad public debate, and this law...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13137	Time for fellow Milinovic. ... A colleague of Milinovic's, time. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, he doesn't understand.]] You're correcting your opinion, you've corrected your opinion. ... My colleague Milinovic, here's some of your colleagues, who have done some damage to the Rules of Procedure, but I have to comment. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You've hurt the Rules of Procedure in a way that you've raised a stick to correct an incorrect quote, and you're correcting an opinion. ... No, it's an opinion from Mr. Cain, and it's your opinion that it will pass. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But let's not waste any time with that. Here, the new Rules of Procedure will decide that there will be no correction, there will be a replica, and it will be simpler for all of us. In front of HDDSB Representatives' Club Dinko Buric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13138	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. The HDSSB advocates' club today's proposal for a law on medically assisted fertilisation will not accept for several groups of reasons. Among them are particularly important medical, legal, and secular. But all the reasons for our opposition to this bill, as well as the challenges that have been shaking the entire Croatian public for months is a common feature, a question of when human life begins, and the answer is simple. Human life begins with conception, and the embryo, i.e. Embry is a living thing. It is an uncontested, not only world-famous but also a biological, medical and ethical fact, and it teaches us not only faith but also the Hippocratic oath, the Code of Medical Ethics and the Detentology of the Croatian Medical Assembly, but also the decisions of the highest European courts, and that is the basis for our opposition to this bill. But let us take the lead in reason for our opposition to this proposal. Medical reasons. In the proposal for a law before the Croatian Parliament on 9 May 2012, there was an introductory part in the first reading, which said among other things that methods of medically assisted fertilisation were the most common and most important way of treating infertility. That is medically true, but it is not entirely true because the methods proposed in this bill do not achieve healing but infertility as a condition only compensates for various biomedical procedures, but the causes remain untreated. That this is thus confirmed by the French law concerning bioethics adopted in 2004 which states that medically assisted fertilisation quotes: "it aims to compensate for infertility whose pathological character is medically diagnosed". But from a medical point of view, and you too, Mr. Minister, like me, like all other doctors, took the Hippocratic oath, there is another reason why this bill is unacceptable for us doctors. It is unacceptable because, by taking the Hippocratic oath, we have sworn, among other things, that we will quote: "absolutely respect human life from the very beginning". As you are, Mr. Minister, so am I and many other doctors, members of the Croatian Medical Assembly, all of us are bound by the Code of Medical Ethics and Detentology which, in Article 1(2), says that we will quote: "respect human life from its beginning to death", but which also decidedly states in Article 3(4) that I quote: "the development of excess human embryos for research purposes is unacceptable and unethical". This law also violates the provisions of the first paragraph of this Article, and it is also at great risk for such a legal solution to be violated and for the provision of the second paragraph of this Article, of Article 3(4) of that Code. To enable the fertilization of 12 egg cells, thus creating 12 embryos, 12 living beings, and knowing that only two or extremely three will be used to achieve the goal, to achieve pregnancy and the birth of a child, while the other 10 or extremely 9 embryos, living beings will be frozen meaning and not respect human life from its beginning, but also the danger of the possible misuse of the use of such excess human beings and for research purposes. The second group of legal ethical reasons. The incompatibility of this law with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, but also with a number of international documents which the Republic of Croatia is best placed on the following examples. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia reads: every human being has the right to live. The entanglement is a human being. This bill produces extra embryos, which means excess human beings intended for the fate of freezing. By freezing, they have been denied the right to live, and on the other hand at least a third of such frozen embryos are experiencedly sentenced to death during the defrosting of such frozen embryos. In the light of the text of the law, this proposal calls for compliance with the provisions of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and the Dignity of a Human Being as regards the application of biology and medicine. However, it is very interesting to see what today's final proposal for the IPO law looks like compared to the text proposed in March 2012 by the Professional Commission of the Ministry of Health of the Republic of Croatia. Today's bill of law, compared to the initial proposal of the expert commission, passed such a metamorphosis that, according to the people, the birth mother would not recognize it. In fact, this current text of the law has nothing to do with the proposal of the Professional Commission of the Ministry of Health. Here's an example that confirms it. In March this year, the Health Ministry's Expert Commission made a proposal for a law on medically assisted insemination with a final bill of law. In this document, Article 3(1) provides that in the application of the procedures, the insemination of fertilisation is to be helped: "Protect human rights, dignity and privacy of persons participating in the medically assisted fertilisation procedure." However, such a bill as is before us today, which then delivered the expert commission on the road from the Ministry of Health to the Government of the Republic of Croatia which discussed it next month in April, so after a month, on that road from Xavier to the Bane Courts, there remained a bill without a provision on the protection of human rights. So today, we have in this bill the same Article 3(1), which reads: in the application of medically assisted fertilisation procedures, dignity and privacy of persons are protected." About protecting human rights, not another word. I ask you, Mr. Minister, where and by whose order are they on their way from the Ministry of Health to the Bane Courts in St. Mark disappeared human rights against the provisions and recommendations of the Professional Commission of the Ministry of Health. Exclusion of this provision on the protection of human rights under this law means nothing more than that the provisions of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and the Dignity of a human being are, by this act, tacitly and consciously disregarded. And the embryo is a living being and you are aware of it and precisely because you know it, but it seems you or someone else don't care about it, obviously not from the ranks of the profession, but from the party's top you deliberately expelled this provision on the protection of human rights by letting everyone know how much you hold to human rights as a living being, but also to human rights at all. If these rights are not in line with the ideologies and views of the party's summit, it cannot in any way and must not be the reason for their removal from the legal solution and thus their abolition. I have a need as a doctor to point out another fact. The World Health Organization has defined infertility as a disease. That's right. And it is the duty of all of us doctors to treat every disease, including infertility, and in that sense it should also help families who cannot have children to make that wish and to achieve it. But always as doctors, we must take care of the ancient medical rule first of all, and this bill and this approach to a living being make us forget and ignore this rule because it is not allowed to harm one living being in this case, nor when it is tried to justify the claim that it is for the purpose of helping another human being in this case to treat infertility of women and men. And in the debate on this law in the first reading, we warned that such a bill is contrary to various international documents. And despite our warnings, nothing has changed this time. Why does the legislator not take into account the provisions of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which inter alia oblige the States and their institutions, to quote first and foremost on the interests of the child, and that it is the right of the child not only to know their parents but also to enjoy their care, but also the right of the child to grow up with both father and mother and to enjoy the care of both, and not just one parent. And what do we find in this proposal today? In Article 10, the second paragraph provides for the provision that the right to receive medically assisted fertilisation also has a full-time professional capable woman who does not live in a marriage or in an extramarital community. Where there is respect for the Convention on the Rights of the Child in the first order of taking care of the child's interest and his right not only to know parents but also to enjoy their care and both parents, but also to grow up with both father and mother. Why is it silenced that this same Convention on the Rights of the Child explicitly states: "When making any decisions or executing procedures affecting the child or children as a group, the child’s welfare must be the most important and this applies to both the decisions taken by the government’s administrative or legislative bodies and the decisions taken by the family." And I will remind you again of the provision of Article 16. Article 3 The UN General Declaration of the Rights of the Man, which states that it is, quote: "Family of the Natural and Fundamental Social Unit and has the right to protect society and state." It's a finished quote. Why the proposer of this law did not take account of the provisions of Article 23. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which says no one must be subjected to any form of abuse without their consent to medical and scientific experiments. As well as the provisions of Article 62 of the Treaty on the Functioning of The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which says the family is under special protection from the state. And in this bill of law, in the mentioned article 10 of the second paragraph, the preferred and good solution for raising and raising a child is to grow up with only one parent, with a mother without a father. At the end of the world view. The fact is that this legal proposal has caused countless debates and in church circles respecting each other's right to their own choices, even when it comes to the worldview, and the choice to be or not to be a believer. The opinions and attitudes of the church on any social event should therefore not be ignored by underestimating and underestimating this bill. This, above all, respecting the fact that the believers in Croatia make a convincing majority of the population, do not think or discuss and the position of the Church in Croatia is the least thoughtless, unwarranted, and also socially unacceptable and harmful. It is already said that today’s bill speaks about an area related to a number of ethical issues. And the fact is that many of these ethical issues are related not only to the moral teaching of the church but also to the basic principles of the medical profession contained in the already mentioned Hippocratic oath as well as in the Code of Medical Ethics and Deontology of the Croatian Medical Assembly. The fact is that modern science has reached today's ever-inconceived frontiers. But that fact also hides the danger of creating an illusion of unlimited power and science that, instead of ultimately helping people, can result in an attempt to imagine that a man can play God, which is for the future and survival of the human race and is extremely dangerous because it can very easily lead to a situation that instead of using those knowledge for the benefit of man, they become a means of working for the benefit of their own harm. Here's a few questions about that. Why, from this bill of law, in relation to the first reading, the provisions of Article 10(7) on that, I quote: "In order to protect the child's well-being of a medically assisted fertilisation, there are no persons who have changed sex." Today, that provision is gone. It means it's allowed. Why does the legislator and this Government of the Republic of Croatia jump at every moment of various homosexual associations and meet various wishes and desires of the same while at the same time persistently ignoring the most justified demands and warnings coming from church circles. Being gay for this government is ok. But to be a believer for her must not be a lazier, smitten, primitive, and ultimately less worthy man. Similar dilemmas about the issue of medically assisted fertilisation are found in many other countries. I've already talked about this for example in Italy and Austria, but we don't find any such legal solutions as are found in our bill. Legal solutions on this issue in these countries represent some kind of compromise, in principle allowing artificial insemination with restrictions that seek to reduce damage. I spoke of the experiences of Austria in my first reading. Now I will specifically cite an example of the Italian law. He was brought back in 2004. The main provisions were the restriction of fertilisation to only 3 ova per procedure, the simultaneous transfer of all the embryos created and the ban on the freezing of embryos, except in the case of circumstances unpredictable at the time of fertilisation which makes the transfer impossible. Article 14 prohibits the freezing and destruction of such embryos, and prohibits the creation of more embryos than necessary for a simultaneous transfer. You know very well that Italy's Constitutional Court has, on the basis of complaints, defined some of the provisions of that article, amended, but left the formulation that the number of embryos must not be greater than necessary, and that is what is in this legislative proposal to us and the most controversial and the fact that with these traps will ultimately be, i.e. what the fate of frozen excess living things is. It is our view that we do not create excess entanglements because this creates a surplus of living things that we then freeze and condemn most of them to death, and at least 30 percent will die statistically safely in defrosting. Finally, it is clear that the ruling majority of this bill will accept. Despite all the objections and dilemmas raised by the opposition clubs, it will decide to raise 88, perhaps more hands. However, since there are different unacceptable reasons in this legal solution for us, and among them are worldly ones that should not be avoided. During Friday's vote on this bill, the HDSSB's representative club proposes and requires that, in accordance with Article 229(3) of the current Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, it is voted by the name of respecting the right of everyone to their own choice in matters of religious commitment and respect for the fact that the Republic of Croatia is secular as it is liked to say, or the world state by Croatia, when it comes to people involved in political life, however, it is necessary to remind the provisions of the document known as "Doctral Note on certain issues relating to the participation of Catholics in political life", which is Pope John Paul II. Among other things prescribed the obligation of every Catholic to oppose any law that attacks human life. Knowing that in every political party, the way we had the chance to hear from a young SDP representative in Osijek, there are Catholics, I remind them not to forget. In the eruption of a neo-oliberal worldview which today's Croatian government is aggressively trying to impose as a dominant worldview in Croatian society should not be forgotten for a world-wide view that is the choice of most Croatian citizens, the religious one. And in that sense, I will conclude the discussion of Jesus ’ words in Matthew by means of his disciples and the people who listened to him by explaining what would happen to them in the last judgment. "Indeed I tell you, whatever you have done to one of these least of my brothers, you have done to me." And the traps are small, the smallest, yet human beings and whatever we do to them, we do to them. And let's not forget that we were all once a embryo, an embryo. Finally, the HDSSB advocates' club will not accept such a bill for all the above reasons and medical and legal and secular reasons. And to you, Mr. Chairman, on behalf of the HDSB Representatives Club, I'm delivering a request requesting a name-calling vote Friday during the decision-making process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13139	Thank you. Next on behalf of the SDSS club Milorad Pupovac. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13140	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Of course, a discussion of a living creature could continue before birth and after birth. We could continue to discuss the status of one being and other beings in our society and see that there are people who are more worldly-priced living things that are not yet born of living things that are born. And not only were they born but they were either one of us here or they could be. That and those questions rarely happen when we talk like we're talking about right now. Because it's not in someone's world-famous focus. There is no debate on sick people and various types of diseases being treated thanks to medical science and medical profession here in this House. And thanks to that medical science and medical profession, many people were cured. As we hope the president of our Parliament will be cured. Does one have the right to say that the efforts of people who are in need of medical attention should be taken in one place? Does anyone have the right to say where the border is where the doctor should provide this help? And who's the one who's gonna tell him? Except for his knowledge, his knowledge, his conscience. Should I come here to me, to my club, and ask me if that's okay with me, my colleagues and my colleagues? I especially ask the doctors who sit here in this House. Should we come here and ask one of us how long she can go into treatment? And infertility, colleagues and colleagues, is a disease. Most people get lucky, they don't have any experience with it. But as things change in our civilizations, the number of those who have is growing. Why? Because they get married late and get married late. Because different species occur in the quality of our organisms and our lives. But that's not what we're discussing. As thousands of those who today are not discussed during this day for many surpluses, emotional, social, economic, and each other. So what kind of society is it that we are more important to discuss about those who have not yet breathed and who do not know that they have a soul? Yeah, they have to have mentis so they can have an angio while we're talking about it. And we can talk about it even though I'm not ready to talk about it, but as far as I can tell here, it's my duty to say it. As it is my duty to say other things elsewhere where I also speak in front of those whose job it is to speak. Now allow me two, three things about the dilemmas that appear here and which are legitimate. First, the fertilisation of egg cells – those who say no more than what is necessary agree. But let your doctor determine how long it takes, based on your history. Neither the Church nor the Club of Representatives nor the other nor the Third, but a doctor in whom we must trust and a medical profession in whom we must trust to do so. And in that sense, perhaps those who say it should determine a number as determined by the recent Istanbul Congress that it is from 5 to 20. And then let the doctors determine whether it's 5 or 7 or 10 or maybe more than 12. If he thinks it's necessary. As far as manipulation is concerned, there is a risk, probably less in this profession than in some others. It is likely that the risk of ova manipulation is less than the risk of atomic fuel manipulation. But for both colleagues and colleagues, we need to have a system for both of them, and for each other, we need to have an orderly state and for each other, and the best regulated health care we know was and is public health and that we understand each other. When public morality and public ethics are handled by people, then manipulation and the space of manipulation is the smallest, and when private interests and private profits lead people, then manipulations are the greatest as we know from our past two decades and we don't have to ask anyone at all if that's how we ask for an opinion or justification for it. And that's what I think when we talk about it and we're all aware that there's a possibility of manipulation then we have to insist on system structure to prevent it, to avoid it, so the control system that's necessary in that. But speaking of which, aren't there any other forms of manipulation that are just as dangerous as this one? Manipulation of people in the name of faith, manipulation of people when so much is mentioned here, manipulation of people in the name of the nation and manipulation of people in the name of ideology. Aren't we in this country with these troubled people and our troubled people past the experience of one and the other and the third? Isn't that meaner? Didn't that take away more victims and more casualties and more evil leave behind than this dilemma that we're talking about how much manipulation might be going to meet people who work or challenge the manipulation they're working with egg cells? And let's not cover our nakedness with this fig leaf of a serious challenge for a human species, and this is a serious challenge. Because we know what he's wearing tomorrow? In our best faith, we don't know if we're going to be able to keep what we need, and that's the life of a man. And stopping science in this kind of research isn't serious and responsible for human life. When we talk about a family especially about a father mentioned here but it is still a world-famous thing that I understand, the family is, of course, in today's social context of a major challenge. It's getting late and it's breaking up fast. But we can't prevent these challenges from taking such a firm stand against this kind of matter where just having a child can preserve a family of colleagues and colleagues, it can prolong love, it can pass it on to a third party. They're not big numbers, but they're significant. And for that reason, if we're already defending our family and we want to keep it, and we want to because we know that the other one is more uncertain and we're not prepared for it, societies aren't prepared for it, as much as families carry in themselves a lot of things that aren't good and if you let me and I'll say something about it. We take care of what families we have in them, how many children we have born but not loved have no need to worry. All those who advocate having as many children as possible while forgetting how many assumptions our families are able to take care of children, what is the social capacity of our average family for a child, what is the average capacity of our society to receive young people? Very weak. ... looking at the fact that the rate of unemployment among young people is among other things. So this isn't a job that doesn't need to be asked questions, but it's not a matter to insist primarily on world-wide aspects. No, because when it comes to our society, we have a world-famous question where else to check, with a number of people living with more people we meet every day. And for that reason, Mr. Minister, I see that one amendment is in preparation for retroactivity. If you accept it in our opinion, you'll do a good thing for the SDSS Club. Also, if you can present guarantees to colleagues and colleagues who say that there should be nothing extra, then there should be no extra egg cells, and we also feel that it is necessary to enter a provision that will allow there to be no surplus on one side, but there is no shortage either. If someone needs more than 12 to enable more than 12 if someone doesn't need a 5, then keep it strictly under control. If you do that, the Club of Representatives of the SDSS and I will be of course for this law as I wish we were all about this because on this matter neither church will be tempted by either one if we talk about two Christian churches. Neither their space for spiritual action will be smaller nor their missions will in any way be questioned, on the contrary. It's a living being, but it's a living being that we look at just need to breathe our soul into. And that's what we need to deal with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13141	Thank you, too. We have four corrections on your exhibit. Anna Lovrin came in first. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13142	Well, my colleague Pupovac very patheticly rebuked us not to discuss the treatment of other serious diseases here in the Croatian Parliament as we discuss it long and studioy about other serious diseases today, that we did not discuss people who are sociological, economic or social surpluses etc. We're a fellow Pupovac, that's incorrect, we are. And when we passed the Health Protection Act and when we passed the Health Insurance Act and on the occasion of each budget, when we discussed how much funding was provided in the budget and how to treat serious diseases, but also to make life easier for people through social care. On this point, the laws we are talking about to secure jobs so that people will not be economically surpluses and socially excluded. And it's not true that we here in the Parliament are going to stop science, but that we will come to be asked, quite right, because not everything that is scientifically possible is socially and legally allowed, but very much of the science in the ethical and legal sense puts limits...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13143	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13144	Well, that's what this law does in Article 36. ...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13145	It's time, co-worker. Excuse me, I have to interrupt, time. Thank you. ... Next correction, Dinko Buric. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] Here's your colleague Buric. You got 20 seconds more.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13146	Thank you. Dear fellow Pupovac, your debate was more like a debate about the Family Law or the Social Care Act than this law, but I am correcting your inaccuracies when you also said that you would not react so emotionally and severely to the treatment of some other diseases. It is not a problem in this law to treat a disease called infertility, the problem in this law is that it predicts, through the treatment procedures, harm to other human beings, and even their deaths, therefore to human beings. And only in connection with your incorrect claim to also discuss a living being that hasn't even been born. That's probably where you're headed with that Italian Nobel laureate Rita Levine Montelcini who was also saying that the embryo isn't a human being until there's no nervous system. But also worldly, but also biological, but also medical, but in all other respects, embryos, the embryo is a living creature from the moment of conception.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13147	Thanks, pal. Time. Next correction by Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13148	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Pupovac said that sick people being treated thanks to the medical profession in this assembly are not spoken of. Inaccurate colleague Pupovac, it is said quite well, is spoken but of course in line with business opportunities in terms of the adoption of laws that will make availability and quality. We warn when adopting the budget that the funds are insufficient and that is the contribution. And even today's debate is denying you that you are not speaking, it is said, of course, but it is also warning of the adverse consequences that will arise by passing this law, and some of them you mentioned, the family as the fundamental and core value of society, and you pointed to circumstances which also violate, of course, the economic and other moments that occur. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13149	Thank you, too. Next correction, Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13150	So I am correcting Mr. Pupovac's incorrect claim, this is not about the law on the treatment of infertility, but about the Law on Medical Aided Insemination, which allows, among other things, a business capable woman to go into medically assisted insemination. I am now asking the question of the minister, who has found that this business capable woman is obviously from, not to mention the terms of Croatia now, although the community itself has used Croatian expressions by addressing its members, who has found that this business capable woman is infertile. Ministry of Health, Minister or anyone else?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13151	Thank you. And Davor Ivo Stier, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13152	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So you say, fellow Pupovac, you're talking about human beings but who still don't have a soul. It's ancient medieval theology. We accept the science of the 21st century, life begins with conception, these are human living beings, we protect them, and we don't hate them. You have the right of course to your ideology, and you have the right to such a political platform, the attitude, to be together with the SDP in that attitude, but to accept not worldly but scientific facts, life begins with conception.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13153	And we're moving on to an individual debate. The first one came to Dunja Špoljar. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13154	Thank you, Vice President. Honorable ministers, fellow MPs and fellow MPs. In the event of treatment for infertility there is no or at least no party should exist. There are only brave and determined to become parents, along with those who support them and understand them and everyone else who has not seen the whole picture just because they haven't been able to get familiar enough with the facts about how long, dark and painful infertility is. Medically assisted insemination isn't a trap manipulation, it's simply a copy of what happens in the act of procreation between a man and a woman, only that male and female sex cells merge outside the body of women. Medically assisted fertilization is not chosen by children with a certain colour of the eyes, hair color and the like, it is not possible, it is a process in which the traps are formed by a male and female cell and all, without any sampling or destruction, return to the body of the woman or freeze for subsequent cycles in which the woman does not have to go through severe hormonal stimulation and painful procedures again. I believe that the right to treatment and the right to parenting cannot be challenged or challenged by anyone. Methods of treatment of infertility such as fertility care and... are not controversial and not at all unknown, but the MPO follows when all other modes of intervention and methods of treatment of infertility are exhausted. The comparison is not nearly appropriate, but to treat the chest of the appendix with a meth lining, while knowing that a surgeon can save your life. Every embryo, every beginning of life is to those who struggle with infertility precious and each represents the hope that such a wanted child will be born out of it. Therefore, the claims that the traps were threatened are ridiculous and offensive and stemmed from the ignorance or ignoring of the important facts of the medical insemination process itself. By freezing embryos, it is possible for a woman to avoid re-hormic treatment and painful extraction of egg cells. Embria is allowed to live because not everyone has to return to the womb at the same time as avoiding multiple pregnancies that are dangerous for both women and children. About 150 children from frozen embryos are born annually in Croatia. So the frozen embryos aren't dead. The maximum number of 12 cells that are fertilized does not mean 12 embryos. In fact, over 50% of fertilized egg cells and in women over 40 years of age, up to 90% are often unhealthy since they have the wrong number of chromosomes. That's why they either don't fertilize or stop developing and end up being an early spontaneous abortion either in a laboratory or in a woman's body. Even healthy embryos have only 60% to 70% seem to nest in the womb. The excess embryo is frozen for the next MPO attempt. The bill prohibits, therefore, the next stimulation of the ovulation of women, i.e. the creation of new embryos if its stored embryos or egg cells exist. In theory, only in the theory of women can become pregnant in the first attempt of MPO, in which of the 12 eggs that the ceiling number 8 fertilized, 5 evolved into embryos, 2 were transferred, 1 nested in the uterine endometrial, continued to develop and was born to the infinite happiness of their parents. After two years, parents return and transfer to their mother frozen three embryos or donate them. Unfortunately, a hypothetical story like this requires every infertile couple. Reality is often much more cruel and much more difficult. In the treatment of infertility that usually lasts for years to which my husband and I have been witnesses, every step is emotional. To know something's wrong. Admit each other's concerns. To start a doctor, to accept a diagnosis of infertility, to share it with family, friends, colleagues, to accept treatment, to risk health, to expect, to hope again and again and again. The most attractive is certainly the struggle with failures at every step of the long and completely uncertain way. Not every treatment for infertility will end with the birth of a child, but once a fruitful period of life has passed, it turns into a review of the missed. My daughter has the right to live, she has 5 million children in the world born to the IPO of seventy-eightth to this day. And I will repeat it in the end even though it has been said many times before infertility is a disease that was declared by the World Health Organization in 1997. Everyone in this country has the right to optimal treatment and the most important thing is to know that everyone has the right to choose. We've chosen.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13155	We'll hear first one correction of an incorrect quote, then a few replicas. The correcting of the incorrect allegations was reported by a respected representative, Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13156	Thank you. Well, you told your colleagues incorrectly, so this proposed law leads to out-of-body insemination and then all the fertilized cells, so all the traps return to the body of the woman. It's just not true. It's exactly the opposite of saying this law. So, you're doing one. That's how I heard you, if I heard wrong, I apologize. But I heard you say everything goes back to the body of a woman. So, and just one of these methods is also perimplantation genetic diagnostics, and it's just not really worked out by this law. What happens if this diagnostic shows certain things, what happens with such traps, is it goes to re-semination of new embryos, etc. etc. And one more thing don't keep putting on the Stigma and the complexes that we don't know is the fertilization process, help fertilize that it's painful, difficult, long-term and psychologically strenuous. We know that because there are provisions and there are existing laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13157	Here's a good example of why we have to change this institute. I'm correcting an incorrect quote that isn't actually spoken, but it seems to me like it's spoken, and it's not spoken, so I'm correcting it. Great. Let's go to the replicas. [[Then we've all heard wrong on this side, we can get out of the phonogram.]] Dujomir Marasovic, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13158	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues of Dunja Špoljar better not to be broadcast by television as you said, there is better no television that the Croatian public does not hear so much surface and underestimate the common sense of parliamentary representatives sitting in this honorable House. What you're saying is these are your arbitrary interpretations. You condemn us or me, I will speak only individually that we do not want to aid insemination to cure infertility. Who are you giving the lecture to? Who are you talking to like that? Well, that's not true, you know that. You manipulate common sense just as you manipulate life. Helped insemination that we seek treatment and all that needs to be treated. This is about a basic supreme command that stems from the supreme orders or from the Uusus of us not to kill, because it is God's command, or that command that stems from our inner creature, does not kill. This is where we work to kill people who are bigger than women. If an abortion is scheduled for up to one and a half months for social needs, then it's allowed, but this is a man outside his wife. I can no longer justify that I can do what I want in my body. So we'll okay. But this is a man outside a woman, outside a woman's body. It's a murder of a colleague, that's all. And we need to strip the truth here once. So, for the sake of truth, in some way, to make a woman a little relieved of what goes on with this manipulation, we allow unlimited killing of human beings. And that's true and that's the essence of this whole debate. That's the measure of things.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13159	This replica will be answered by the now respected representative of the Dunja Spoljar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13160	Your Honor, I thank you very much for opening my eyes. I mean, I think if anyone in this House has the right to talk about it, it's me. Namely, this is about treating infertility, it's about medically assisted fertilization, and it's about those who are meant for it. If you had listened a little more carefully, I, as well as my colleague before you, have described very thoroughly how women who submit to medically assisted fertilization protect their embryos, or protect their embryos. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13161	Second replica, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13162	I'm really glad that you're here and through medically assisted insemination you've become a mother, which your husband has become a father, and nobody here in this House is against medically assisted insemination. And you have no exclusive right to speak only of this law. We have the right to speak to all of us MPs. And let us not agree that two or three embryos allow life, nine or ten embryos are sentenced to death. The traps are for us human beings, and that's the question of the worldview, the question of the political worldview. On the other hand, in this law, what is most controversial and I believe that everyone will not agree on this issue is the possibility of providing assistance and medically assisted insemination to the same-sex community, that is, a business capable woman as it stands in this law. So let's be open and let's say we give it to LGBT people. And I'm here because I'm really for one sexual, above all evenness, I believe that medicine will advance so much, and soon men will be able to go to medically assisted insemination, business-efficient men. Well, here's what I suggest we put that in the law. So we're really gonna have that movie with Schwarzernegger and Danny de Vito. So that's what we're different about. And family is the foundation of this society for us. And the child has the right to both father and mother.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13163	Thank you. Next replica, Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13164	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, I use the purpose of the Replica Institute, not correcting an incorrect quote in order to exchange opinions, but here I also have to point out one fact. I got over a heart attack a few years ago. It doesn't give me the right to tell anyone or to tell you that when we talk about cardiovascular diseases, I have more right than anyone else who hasn't gotten over talking about it. I'm also a doctor, but I don't have to be a doctor to make a bill like this that gets in the way of world-famous issues, even though Mr. Minister wants to show all the time that it's just a medical law, it's a medical law, but it's not just medically, it's also secular. Therefore, when it comes to such issues, then we all have the right and obligation here in the Croatian Parliament to talk about it. And what is most controversial, again, I stress, what is most controversial in this law is not the fact that we want to treat disease infertility but are at least three groups of reasons that are not good at such a bill. It's an unnecessary fact that all 12 egg cells are fertilized. We can freeze the egg cells and then follow them if it is necessary to defrost and fertilize them if necessary. But not immediately create living things that we know to freeze them and probably give them the fate of deprive them of life, and it's about living things. The second group of reasons, here I'm ending up, I was already talking about them are same-sex communities and transsexuals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13165	Next replica, Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13166	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. ... [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13167	Turn the microphone on so we can hear you. Comrade Milinkovic, you might want to turn on the microphone so we can hear you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13168	And I'm sorry, I'm sorry. So I agree with you that this is a deep emotional issue, but we here have to discuss the arguments of a colleague and warn of certain harmfulities. Of course we want good health and your daughter, but also to those who are starting and who need it, but I want to warn you for one moment, you're talking about children. Therefore, this law is not in the interest of children before or after birth because it also deprives those beginnings of the right to live on purpose for some of the born ones of fatherly love and concern that is contrary to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13169	And the last replica, the esteemed Head of the Sun.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13170	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleagues have said that some of my predecessors have no exclusive right to discuss any law, so we all have the right to discuss any law that comes on the agenda and maybe we have in our families or friends who have the same problem as you have. That's why I'm going to warn you that no one sets a limit when someone gets their appendix or someone has a broken arm if they're going to put a cast four times or once they're going to put a cast on. And so here under the applicable law six times the stimulated cycle paid HZZO, now it's only going to be four times. Otherwise for information for those who don't know who do it themselves, it costs 6 to 7 thousand kuna. So the drugs were free six times, and now they're limited to four times. As far as the natural cycle is concerned, it will now be possible only twice, and the boredom has been unlimited. The answer I put on the board yesterday, and I think that's going to be resolved by the amendment now, but I'd like to see if the Minister of So far is not going to answer whether the earlier transfers will count or the transfers won't count. So people are confused, they don't get it. Is it the same as keeping it, or freezing it and defrosting it? What, what do we do after five plus five? Shall we wait for science to advance and then give some answers afterwards? Here, so I think the minister understands very well, and I'm glad he respected what was my remark after the first reading, which is that it was a discriminatory age limit. Yet women, 42 years later, have the right and opportunity to get their chance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13171	Thank you. The debate will now include health minister esteemed Rajko Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13172	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Infertility is a diagnosis and disease, infertility is not a choice, colleagues of Lovrin refer to you, infertility is not a choice to hear again and infertility can happen to anyone. So infertility is a diagnosis and disease, infertility is not a choice and infertility can happen to anyone. And about that, please take care of it. I thank all the representatives of the clubs for a very good and conciliant conversation. I've been waiting on purpose for my colleague, Dunjo, to hear... this Ministry of Health free to open the Ministry door to all those who unfortunately have a diagnosis and a disease and believe me, I've learned a lot from them. Of course they don't have the exclusive right, of course we all need to discuss it, but I've learned a lot from them. I learned that, for example, two patients with bullish epidermalism must be operated until March 15th of every year, but of course the pediatrician is in one hospital, Klaic's hospital, that they don't have a burn department there as well as trauma and that he's a child surgeon at Rebra. And when I heard that, I couldn't believe it. And what did I do? He brought a surgeon from the Rebra pediatrician from Klaic to traumatology briefly and clearly and solved the problem in 24 hours. So you see how you can learn. To teach people who have problems. Otherwise, it would have lasted, and it would have lasted. It's never the end of the story. So is this. So please listen, and in the end, at least you, you and you have open doors to your offices every day, I don't doubt that you receive citizens who chose you, I hope you haven't forgotten about them. I hope not. So I must listen to them, or fellow gynecologists, representatives of the associations. So thank you all, thank you for not going into a philosophical discussion about three souls. You know there are three souls? You don't know. A vegetative soul, an emotional soul and a rational soul, and I don't doubt that you all believe that you have a soul. The question of course when did this theory come up and I'm glad that you didn't go into philosophical discussions but to discuss how they fit today. So we're all theorists, all of us in any business that we do professionally rarely and here, but it's good to hear those who feel any problem in their experience. I see a lot of university professors, I see a lot of professionals, and I don't hesitate to read them in my life to behave according to three criteria. I personally am. Professionally, you finish law school, economics, hoteling, you finish some profession. Another possible scientific criterion. Make some academic career, irrelevant. You can learn from each other, you can get from each other, even in the 90th year of your life. 90 years of life that Mrs. Tomasic knows very well or colleague Davor Ivo Stier because they lived there that they ended up people with 90 years of college in regulated states. What, finish your life span going to college. He's a 90-year-old college graduate. So you can do both, you know, profession and science. You just can't do one thing. The third criterion, the world, the experience criteria. So you can also make a professional criterion and you can do scientificly just have to work hard enough, have enough effort. IQ max 85 graduate college. Any college but enough effort. But you can't do the third criterion. It is an experienced criterion, and it is good for all those who have an experienced criterion to talk about it because trust me, colleagues and colleagues, the one who has not seen in his experience is silent. You know why they keep quiet? They shut up because they'd fall apart in front of cameras of the force of their emotions, they'd fall apart, they'd cry like they were crying in my office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13173	Thank you, Minister. We're continuing an individual debate. It is up to the Honorable Representative, Željko Reiner, vice president of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13174	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So this law certainly is between the world and the world, but I won't talk about a bullish epidermosis or a question of three souls or hotelers or how many IQs it takes to finish college, I'd be the state of the topic. And the topic is this law, this law that unfortunately has a series of unfortunate solutions, a law that opens up doubt, leaves a lot of room for manipulation, arbitrary interpretations and abuses, a law that a human being embryo creates on a thing that can be possessed, alienated, held by will, donated, destroyed, killed. Let's face it. So that's the problem with this law. The problem of this law is this too, and this is seen from the discussion of those who defend it, and the emphasis of the persistent minister is repeatedly on the fact that the World Health Organization has said this disease. Of course it's a disease. And it is constantly stressed that this law is related to treatment. I can't help but think that it's being emphasized right now 50 times by those who defend it because at the announcement of a referendum on this law, some legal experts said that it might be compromised if it's about a law that defines treatment. And that's why you care now about the story that it's a treatment law. It has also been mentioned several times that every 6th pair that cannot have children will be solved by their problem with this law creating an entirely false impression that they are being deceived by those angry children who want children and have every right to have children and, of course, we all also support them, but they are creating a false impression that their need, their desire, their desire, will be satisfied with just one segment of this law, which is freezing the embryos. That's not true, it's simply not true and it needs to be said very clearly. When we talk about treatment, I would like to remind everyone that when I first read on behalf of the HDZ Club, I proposed not to pass such a law but to pass a law which will be called the law on ways of treating infertility that would allow citizens the right to have full information and availability in a world of ethically acceptable and far more effective methods of treating infertility. Of course, like all other suggestions, it has gone beyond that, and it has been completely ignored. So I just want to make it very clear and say that we don't have to pretend to have amnesia every time. And that's why I want to stick to the mistakes and failures of this law. For example, one of these mistakes and failures is that marriage or extramarital partners are entitled to inform only about possible forms of natural family planning, etc., instead of saying that there is a obligation for doctors authorised to inform them of possible forms of natural planning. If it were really about the treatment in this law then it would be in it, but that's not the case, so let's face it. Of course, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, which was ratified by this Croatian Assembly, has repeatedly been mentioned and clearly requires that the child be provided with legal protection before birth and the right to care for both parents. And that was left out of this law, so let's just say that clearly. This law makes it clear that after the birth of three children of the same biological parents, the sex cells are destroyed, and the remaining embryos are not to be donated. Why the law does not make clear what the legislator, or legislator, meant, which is to be destroyed or killed because what else will happen to them if they are not allowed to donate, do not need a married couple anymore, what will happen to them. It's very clear what. What is very surprising to me is that it is illegal to stimulate ovulation to a minor female who is neither physically nor mentally mature, without at all asking for written consent from parents or legal guardians. When a child goes into the tonsil surgery for the consent of parents or legal guardians, here a mentally underage, an immature person can decide for himself, no opinion, no parent, no guardian, nothing is required. Why is there no indication in there that import or export of the embryos is prohibited? Does that mean the bill promoter thinks it's allowed, why it's not spelled inside. I don't know but it's a serious oversight and I think, even though it was warned at first reading, I don't know why it wasn't introduced into this version. Whether or not it was intentional or not, I don't know, but it was warned about it, it wasn't taken into account, and in the final version of the law, it won't be if you vote against import bans and the export of embryos. One of the very important facts and failures that exist are criminal provisions. Penalties are extremely i would say strangely resolved because although Article 31 prohibits surrogate motherhood, Article 32 prohibits the cloning of human beings, however, even the penalties provided for are exclusively fines and such that in fact any private polyclinic who knowingly begins to violate that law will pay off that law, because they will far more profit than they will have to pay the fines, if anyone catches and controls them at all. I will not particularly highlight, for example, total cohesion with existing other laws. For example, in Article 32 of this final bill, the proposer has reduced the ban on human being cloning against a violation and prescribed only fine. At the same time, we have in the Penal Code of the Republic of Croatia a violation of the ban on human being cloning to be considered a criminal offence and a sentence of imprisonment is prescribed. It is a direct contradiction of two now existing laws or Friday's existing laws. How ridiculous it is to just violate it and only fine it, we can compare it with some European countries, we love to compare with Europe, we wave constantly with Europe, and when it is necessary and when it is not necessary. If you look at the legislation of other European Union countries, it is clear that violations of the prohibition of reproductive, say cloning are punishable by drastic penalties. The French legislation provides for a 30-year sentence of strict prison and a fine of 7.5m euros, and if it is an organised group, then the sentence is a life-long prison and 7.5m euros. So they are severely punishing something that is contrary to all moral and ethical norms for which this law provides for a criminal penalty in a mild financial amount. For example, this law does not provide for a temporary or permanent withdrawal of a licence for the work of a healthcare professional or an unhealthy person who violates the provisions of the law. He does not foresee any punishment for making a false statement with a public notary, and you know how controversial she is when you have to go to a public notary and say that she is in an extramarital community, for example, what the public has been discussing, so if you give a false statement to anyone because there is no criminal provision in this law that you have made a false statement. The penalty for attempting to perform a repeat does not exist, you can repeat multiple times, there are no penalties. Therefore, there is one whole series of serious failures in this law and I have deliberately concentrated on them, and not at all on world-wide and ineres that exist precisely because of the fact that, in addition to having a significant disagreement for the world-wide reasons of this law, this is simply a bad law, and because of that, if not for light reasons, we should not vote it, although I am fully aware that once again, of course, it will be voted by force, but then again, for some year or two, it will be understood that this is bad and then we will all be very surprised, and often those who have now advocated for it will pretend that they have not advocated, and perhaps that it is odd that it is actually passed at all. It's a rare case in our political life, so I just want to remind us of a whole series of circumstances that, I repeat, this law is bad. It opens up a space for manipulation, for abuse, and therefore, if not for worldly reasons, it should not be accepted now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13175	Thank you, Vice President Reiner. Now you'll have to hear three replicas of your own club's representative. First distinguished representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13176	Well, fellow Reiner, you've well noticed that the minister somehow unnecessaryly, in fact after that, you've explained that perhaps not even without some thought, he's going out for a pay phone all the time, and he's telling us that infertility is a diagnosis, that infertility should be treated, that it's a disease. It also seemed to me that it was a little bit over-repeated, so I may have gone from bench to business, but I just noticed that we weren't stupid enough to repeat it so the minister seemed very rude to me. But now I see it's not exactly harmless. In fact, it is probably repeated that we are forced by a complex or a sense of guilt that we dare to discuss this law at all, and it is imposed on us so as not to ask the question that this law does absolutely nothing compared to 15000 now frozen embryos, embryos, that it does not solve anything that profuturo will do with all those traps that remain after the purpose of fertilisation which, in my opinion, should not be the goal of helping fertilisation, should not be emphasized through this whole law that it is the birth of a healthy child because it is then implying that it might be checked, so I don't know what to do with those who are not very good and similar embryos. So, don't say this law anything about it, it's unspoken. In addition to having a series of clamperas in the legal text itself, what is important is what is Prof. Reiner ordered. That's what I wanted to point out, and that's what those behaviors that are now described as criminal acts for which the prison sentence has been prevented for up to 10 years. These are serious crimes are now actually prescribed as infringements and according to the practice of the European Court of Justice in Strasbourg it is very easy to get someone out of principle not bis and I go to pay 70,000 kuna instead of going as it should go to prison for 10 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13177	Dr. Reiner will now be replicated by Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13178	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a colleague, Reiner, pointed out that the minister has repeatedly talked about treatment. I would just add there he was saying that this law offers optimal treatment. But is that true? Whether, for example, this law allows HZZ to be financed and some new technologies that do not require the freezing of embryos that respect life from conception, which are much cheaper and as effective as the process of artificial fertilisation as.../The speaker does not understand./... the technology that was developed in Ireland for example. And that's what we discussed at the first reading, but here's what the minister didn't consider. If optimal treatment were indeed required then it would probably be incorporated into the law and the possibility of really coming out and really being infertile couples in the focus of this law. Unfortunately, I'm afraid it's not the focus of this law that infertile couples, that this law is not to their extent, but it's much more to the extent of this artificial insemination industry that actually took part in the creation of this law, which has actually insisted that manipulation be no longer in the area of criminal, but exclusively infraction. And which, of course, you sought and ensured by this law to oversee themselves, which, of course, leaves a lot of open questions about possible manipulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13179	Next is the third replica of the esteemed Davor Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13180	Thank you very much, Vice President Reiner. Well, there will be a replica from your club again because it seems that colleagues from position clubs are not particularly interested or concerned or are already solved by this bill, so then you're surprised I wanted to actually comfort you with one fact that this law solves the issue differently than some long law. Well, what one law prescribed as a felony here is just a violation. My colleague Lovrin has already said this is, in fact, a small door to the possibility of easing penalties, i.e. dealing with serious problems by applying milder measures because twice the same thing cannot be tried. So instead of bearing the consequences of the crime, you will ultimately be responsible only for the offence, and that has already been settled by the European Court of Justice. However, the Honorable Vice President Reiner does not particularly worry about this because until now it has been the practice of this government to solve the same thing in a different way by different laws, so in the collapsing Law on civil servants in its parts with the Law on the Rights of Officials in the Local Self-Government, you heard today that, this morning, the Law on Participation in Tripartite Negotiations, as far as I can pronounce, is not exactly a law that would speak of union representation but was in fact changing the Labour Act. Therefore, it is only a continuation of practice to further complicate legislation in order to make it less clear to us the rights and obligations we have under the laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13181	The individual debate will be continued by a respected representative, Ruza Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13182	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Well, here's an old saying when in a dilemma, don't. And here are a few reasons why I won't vote for this law. The proposed law does not protect human rights and does not comply with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 21(1), because the initial human beings do not guarantee the right to live but, in most cases, condemns them to death, with the possibility of freezing exposure to health risks with still insufficiently known and already scientifically documented short-term and long-term consequences of all health and behaviour of those few who will be born with the help of the IPO procedures. According to official data, even 106922 or 91.96% died or frozen in 2009 and only 9344 or 8.04% were born. The bill is not in favour of women and men's health, because the procedures of medically assisted fertilisation are not optimal treatment or lead to the healing of the cause of infertility as a complex health condition of the conditioned psycho neuroendocrinological mechanisms. As much as possible, health care has been found that these procedures further worsen the health of women and men on the entire psycho-endocrine axis including intra-marital disorders, up to and including mental and psychiatric conditions in the context of post-traumatic stress disorder. These consequences rarely remain unrecognizable until they culminate because there are not enough trained experts to recognize them. The proposed law is not in the best interests of children before or after birth, since it is, in addition to those who begin to deny the right to live, infringes their dignity and physical integrity. Some of the born deliberately take away fatherly love and concern, contrary to the Convention on the Rights of the Child Article 7 and Article 18. In fact, the State should encourage, protect, and bind both parents to raise and raise their children together, not to discriminatoryly discriminate against their fathers. It should certainly be taken into account not only the established medical but also the psychological effects described by the IPO on children who are so conceived, who are not known until the end, since long-term studies have not yet affected the crucial period of puberty and adolescence. The bill is not aimed at solving the problem but at multiplying them, both in medical and legal terms and in a moral and ethical way. This specifically refers to an unknown number of frozen human beings. Some say about 10,000, some say as many as 20,000 that are in the refrigerators of Croatian health institutions whose number will constantly multiply by hyperproduction of embryos with the possibility of fertilising 12 ovaries, Article 7(2). There are also no solutions to numerous situations that would arise by its implementation, for example in the case of divorce, or the breakdown of the extramarital community, death, etc. The proposed law is not on the welfare of doctors and medical professions because it violates the dignity of a doctor who would violate the Code of Medical Ethics and Determining, Article 1 and Article 3, or because of the numerous adverse consequences of the IPO procedure on the psychological and physical health of women, men and children who are conceived, could not adhere to their principles. The proposal for a law is not in favour of marriage and family because by extending the circle of users of the IPO, Article 10, the two headquarters institutions of society are jeopardising themselves in an attempt to equate them with other communities of common life which cannot be compensated in its functions. The fact is that functional and healthy marriages are the basis of functional and healthy families, which are without a doubt an optimal environment for the creation and growth and development of children as the most important social resource. They therefore constitute a guarantee of society's viability and, as such, should in any way protect and strengthen them, rather than weaken them. The bill is not in the interest of the majority of Croatian citizens and their health but favours financial and other interests, pharmaceutical companies, health institutions and doctors of human reproduction subspecies and their professional societies, starting with their prominent influence in the commissions, giving opinions and imposed obligations to the ministry in giving data and the results of the treatment of the IPO and their involvement in the work of inspections, which is not the case in the current law. In addition, the ban on imports and exports of sex cells and embryos, Article 36, has been left out. The proposed law is not resolved in preventing the abuse and violation of the laws of Articles 56 and 57, as is the case in the criminal provisions of the laws of other European countries which regulate this area, in particular Italian and French. For reasons of seriousness of access to the punishment of offenders of the bill, it is necessary to work it out because fines are absolutely inadequate in view of the benefits that can be achieved by breaking the law. Because, unlike the law, Article 42, the fully left out the possibility of prison sentences regardless of the severity of the infringements. A stricter punishment for repeating a criminal offence or for organised groups is not provided. No penalty for the temporary or permanent withdrawal of a licence for work and suspension to medical staff or to an unhealthy person who violates the provisions of the law shall be prescribed. No discrimination has been abolished because it does not allow married couples alternative treatment methods such as fertility care or NaPro which are cheaper and are not harmful to health. According to the statistics, NaPro technology has a much higher rate of success than out-of-body fertilisation. For example, 81.8% of women who started to suffer from the problems of the aovulation cycle or the lack of valuation, 56.7% of women who suffered from enometriosis remained pregnant while only 21.2% of women with the same pregnancy condition achieved out-of-body fertilisation. And even at the end of my interest, a more representative proposal relating to the promotion of the age limit of 42 years of life for the implementation of the procedures of medically assisted insemination on the burden of HZZO in particularly justified cases continues to be known. So I'm wondering who decides if that's the only doctor, whether that's the doctor's decision or whether he doesn't like his wife, the other one likes him, the third one doesn't like him? And who can actually decide other than the doctor whether this woman should have an MPO or not? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13183	Thank you very much. The debate will now be continued by the respected representative Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13184	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. In the manner of a good guest to your predecessor vice president, I believe that this debate has gone in this direction today, and it is good that it is. After the first reading where he was and respected minister in these few days we actually listened to the committees on behalf of the promoter and just yesterday at a meeting of such a committee after her exposé she replied that I was probably in doubt when life began. Of course I'm not in doubt, I've alluded to that the minister said about those who believe life begins with conception, and to those who don't give birth. That's what I was alluding to. I believe that all the people who, and we here in the Parliament today, and everyone who deals with this problem know that life begins with conception. It is also known that after three weeks the heart rate begins, six, seven weeks already have organs. I don't think we should lamentate about it much right now, but the fact is also that pregnancy as such exists certain complications and that it is actually being led as a disease and getting sick at the expense of it. So much for that. I personally do not believe that anyone in the Croatian Parliament is against medically assisted insemination, especially sensitized to all those couples who cannot have children. I've had cases like this in my family, and I know what luck it is. The truth is that in a marriage, what is best, the best thing that can happen as the fruit of a love child. Of course it doesn't have to be just married. And we accept that. However, the key question is raised, how important is the role of the state, profession, secular and legislation in the Republic of Croatia today, and how many individuals in the design of ethical principles and moral standards of medical profession? In particular, we know that doctors are bound by a Hippocrates oath written two thousand years ago, modified back in '46. For years without reading, he says, "I will absolutely respect human life from the very beginning. I believe that the proposings assume a possible legislative regulation that would commit to the confidentiality of data and the situation in which an incest would be possible and most importantly believe that they also know about the UNESCO Convention on the Protection of the Rights of Children, or a child, which inter alia obliges the States and their institutions to primarily take care of the interests of the child. I also remind you that the Republic of Croatia is the signatories of this convention. She also told lawmakers yesterday that this was in line with the European Commission's policies, but I think this is within the framework of national legislation. She may have been referring to this document of the ESHR and he's actually a document of an association dealing with human reproduction, but it has nothing to do with it. In my first reading presentation, I visited two cases at the EU Court of Justice in Luxembourg concerning Green Peace against a German researcher, and the second was related to one case in Austria in medical aiding fertilisation with the help of donated sex cells, so we also received an explanation which I will read in part "After this observation of the Committee on European Integration by the Court of Justice of the EU C 34/10 in the case against Oliver... and the Green Pecas of 18 October. In its judgment, the Court interpreted the concept of human embryos exclusively for the purpose of establishing the scope of the ban on patentity i.e. on the legal protection of inventions, not in order to answer the question of medical or ethical nature," which is not true. And two. "Directive 98/44 of the European Parliament since '98 points out that human embryos are not biotechnology finds that should be traded commercially or industrially, nor can they be patented." That's the way it is. The fact is that what we need to resolve and the questions that need to be asked and remain open are what is rightly unborn frozen children, which is very well spoken of in the name of the club by fellow Milinovic. What about killing traps? Is that euthanasia? Is it known that such a declaration of ban on euthanasia has been issued? Who has the right to select embryos? And that's what we've been listening to today. What about your father's discrimination? And that's what Mr. Cain was talking about today? What about child discrimination and his growing up without one parent? Of course, and today the family was spoken of by a colleague of the Pubovac and did not speak for the rest of his life. The fact is, and it is said that the family is still the only intact institution in this country and therefore requires great caution. Because of this and I think that all MPs have received a statement from the permanent council of the Croatian Bishop's Conference, which today is so much talked about not because it comes from the Croatian Bishop's Conference but because of everything they have warned about, and have warned that human rights are not being protected until the end, and that this is not in accordance with the Constitution, because we have heard that this is not humane and does not go in favour of the health of women and men, is not in the interest of children, it is not in the interest of doctors, marriage, family as well as in the interest of the future of Croatian citizens, but it is not... preventing the abuse and violation of the law that our colleague Lovrin spoke of which she well noticed that in reproductive cloning in some countries, France has been mentioned here as being fine up to 7.5 million euros. In our case, it was done through a violation provision which is certainly not good. Yesterday we also did, and this is very important from the essential medical experts who could hear this. All opt out lightly for artificial fertilisation procedures without previously taking long methods of treatment for infertility. Why? Because the legislators who are on the team have their own private polyclinics. You don't need to close your eyes in front of this. A corporate network of private and state-owned clinics has been created to make good money through these procedures. It is probably thought of that fertile tourism in Cyprus, with the benefit of the pharmaceutical industry. They understand the suffering of parents with infertility problems but it's a slow way. It is against the freezing of embryos and heterogeneous fertilisation or donation of egg cells. In order to obtain a child, the procedures suggesting the law must sacrifice ten of his brothers and sisters. The law allows killing these people because if you freeze embryos 30% of them don't survive defrosting. And what was Mr. Rainer talking about, by changing sex what was going on? It's hard to accept, and even in our society, that some of my mustache-changed Stipe, we see him in a more advanced pregnancy tomorrow. It's hard for people to accept. And let me finish. Medically assisted insemination should help infertile couples, certainly to reach so many wanted children but must also protect human life, support and treat it, which means that it should be on the side of the culture of life, and thus it puts itself almost one perverse way that I was talking about in my first reading in the service of the culture of death. I hope not, but certainly if it's immoral and illegal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13185	Thank you. Now we'll hear what the bill thinks of the respected representative Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13186	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. Here I am going to try to philosophize a little while while the minister earlier said that he was glad that there was no philosophical debate so far. It seems to me that this law wants a man, or law, to impose or suggest that man enter God’s realm of creation and do what is possible, even though we know well that all that may seem to be done is not allowed to do. In order to be able to discuss the subject in question and to be able to make all together a quality decision seems to have to go from the very definition of man. What's a man? Some will say he's just a reasonable animal and nothing else while others say he's the image and the opportunity of God. The truth is, we all have triple divine qualities in us. These divine qualities are called the mind that reaches partly to the truth, then free will that chooses good or bad and the heart that loves or hates. By these divine qualities we are godly creatures who seek the truth. We know that the truth comes in part by reason and the fullness of truth by reason and faith. These are the two wings of reason and faith that lead us to the truth. These two powers if the water is isolated in the wrong direction. So reason leads to rationalism in subjective intellectual blasphemy, and faith itself leads to fundamentalism, religious fanaticism that does not tolerate other behaviors or thoughts around it. The truth is so incomprehensible that no one in the full can reach or reveal its fullness and therefore no science is above the truth because the truth is above all science. The problem of medically assisted insemination is multiple and highly questionable in relation to the truth. This question next to many others marks the strange state of the human spirit. Why weird? Strangely, man struggled against what God had created and what was good at first, and in Jesus ’ case it became even better, which is in our case a marriage union. A man stood up against that union of marriage and used various immoral means to bring it down. Who has the right to do this, who has the right to take a life? No one. Who has the right to equate naturally with the unnatural as it seems with so-called. Same-sex communities. Are we going to accept the Masonic thesis that faith is a private matter that particularly communists have accepted both arms, and we know that man is a social, economic, political and religious being that every policy must take care of? Faith is therefore a general social category that has the right to exist and respect, not some private reality. How such a social category can be denied, as the minority has the right to impose the law on the majority. If it's to believe in statistics, we have atheists minority, and Catholics most of us. If that minority denies God and all that God’s Catholics need to obey God and God’s provisions, there must be no bargaining about such problems. What a Catholic that is against life, what a Catholic who votes for a law that allows the manipulation of an embryo as if with certain things. How to accept the fact that a child does not have a father, how to grow up, and how to develop such a child normally. Knowledge of psychology, pedagogy, and sociology tells us about the necessary presence of both parents in order for the child to develop normally. What do we do? To Christians it is clear that we are for life, we are for a natural and normal marriage as God founded it, and everything else is against nature, deviant behavior, spiritual pollution, and eclipse of mind and spirit. Who can allow an embryo to freeze, who can play God? Surely those who believe in it should not. A twisted conscience always makes wrong judgments and wrong decisions, and for the right conscience we say that it is the most intimate sanctuary of our soul, the most intimate man I, the inner eye, a sacred place where God declares the truth. It is not any conscience but a raised, formed, and responsible conscience. Someone can say so we all have a conscience. It is true, but it is true that Hitler, Stalin, and Tito also had a conscience, but these consciences killed millions of people because they had wrongly raised that conscience. And killing can be done in various ways and what happens with this law is also systematic killing of man and truth in man. Such work is neither to be joined nor to be supported by such laws. Let us not be affected by spiritual corruption because it is the worst and the worst with catastrophic consequences. Such a form of corruption is much worse than any political one, because politically no matter what it may be, whoever falls into this spirit will find it difficult to come out of it. Namely, many great and significant religions outside of Christianity, such as Islam, Hinduism, Buddhism, etc., believe that human life begins with conception. The same was held by the ancient Greeks and Romans prior to Christendom, with a certain significance for the future of Western civilization. Namely, this is neither Greek nor Roman mythology, but an oath named after Greece's Hippocrates that clearly determines that human life begins with conception, and that it is still a relevant provision in Roman law that says that the child is a right entity, or that it is capable of inheriting. This legal provision is inevitable in the Croatian Inheritance Act, Article 124(1), paragraph 2, which states that the ability to inherit has only a person who is alive at the time of the opening of the inheritance and is mentioned in this context at the time of the opening of the inheritance from which it premises the simple, clear and logical conclusion that the child is a living person who is a legal entity. If we know that and do not disturb God’s plans. And to conclude, historical experience teaches that anyone who is a woman doesn't have to be a mother, also who is a man doesn't have to be a father, so God's intentions are unfathomable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13187	Thank you. Now first we'll hear the replica of the esteemed Anne Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13188	... [[Speech is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13189	Dear colleague Lovrin, please turn on the microphone. You don't sound well.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13190	I don't have to repeat everything now, but I need to repeat that everything that is scientificly possible and medically possible is certainly not legally allowed under other laws and is not ethically and is not socially allowed because cloning is possible, and human body trafficking is possible, and it is possible to mix human and animal sex cells. It's all scientificly possible, but it's strictly illegal with a suspended sentence of up to 10 years in prison. Of course, we also want to feel that we should take whatever is allowed to treat infertility as a serious disease and allow all infertile women to become treated first and then to benefit from fertilization. But I consider myself, and I believe that my other colleagues can't treat their illness without endangering the right of someone else. That's exactly what we're talking about here, so it's a threat here to the right to produce human embryos that are being thrown after, and that's just a step, especially in these criminal provisions, a step in the way that we're going to get to the production of people in a way that we're going to say, at some point today, I'm not having a good time, so I'm going to throw it off, but it's going to be convenient for me in a year and a half, so I'm going to unfreeze myself one of the things that exists in some countries. We haven't come this far yet, but it kind of leads to surrogate mothers, to a series of ethical and legal problems that are opening up in the world today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13191	His remarks on... debates will now be presented by the Minister of Health, the Honorable Rajko Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13192	Thank you very much. So no remarks, fellow Boxtiah spoke nicely to the truth, and he probably, not likely, certainly knows John 8.32 or the Croatian Gospel according to John, and then Jesus told all those truths will set you free. So, you spoke nicely of the truth, and that truth will set you free. Thank you very much, dear colleague of the Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13193	We're continuing an individual debate. Dear representative Martina Banic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13194	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. We have heard many things about the proposal for a law on medically assisted insemination by the ruling. Well, first of all, it's the most intelligent law. This is not an acceptable position, especially in a situation where this government has not given this public a single speck of plan to improve the most intelligent policy. By saying this in no way do I dispute the right of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia to become parents, and I am even less opposed to the most intelligent laws. However, today is not the law ahead of us. There's no plan, no strategy. Only the laws that have turned ruling into their populist weapons are most perfiduously hitting the extremely sensitive parenting area. Friends and colleagues, let us not take the fate of human beings lightly – embryos. Unfortunately, the law does not resolve the question of the fate of frozen embryos. What happens after the five-year deadline. If parents do not agree to donate their embryos, they still do not want to keep them safe. So that's one of the important questions that this law has not been settled. Also, the law does not mention the fate of existing traps that are now becoming frozen. You don't know how many there are. Some say 10,000 today, and some say 12, so we've even heard 15,000. What's going to happen to them is completely unknown. It is also necessary to draw attention to the lack of criminal provisions. The law only provides for fines, but not prison sentences. There is no stricter penalty for repetitive a criminal offence, for acts carried out by an organised group. There is neither a penalty for temporary or permanent withdrawal of a licence for the work of a healthcare professional who violates the provisions of the law. We could hear them talking about how a law is passed that does no harm to anyone, and they also cannot agree with it because it is very damaging to the children that this law intends to treat as material, and it violates the fundamental decision of the Court of Justice of the EU of 21. The 2011 October, which reads the legal gains of the European Union, is said to begin life with conception. We must not allow the fate of human beings to be uncertain and open up a large space for manipulation, because no one can afford to manipulate human beings. It is clear that the government must make decisions on a daily basis, and it is even acceptable to make unpopular decisions if it is clear that their goal is to benefit the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But the decision to knowingly deny someone the right to a father is inadmissible. The pursuit of our society must be focused on the welfare of children, and it is clear that it is best for every child to grow alongside a family with both parents, of course, if conditions exist. It's nice of the government to say they're trying to keep their pre-election promises that they've received from citizens. However, it is less beautiful that they do not implement any of their programs, but prove their integrity in an immoral and inhumane law. In the end, I want to say that I support the activities of the Civil Initiative and... and as a representative of the Croatian Democratic Community, I will vote against the adoption of such a proposal for a law on medically assisted insemination. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13195	Thank you. The right to his 10 minutes now gets a respected representative, Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13196	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here from all these exhibitions we can conclude one thing, and I'm going to talk about what's a stone of interference to me, and that's definitely freezing embryos. And we'll all agree that the law on this matter is inconclusive. We didn't answer the question until the end, which after 5 or 10 years with embryos. And the indiscriminateness is what opens up the possibility of suspicion of great manipulation. Unfortunately, we are witnessing in the near history of unfavorable events that took place in the medically assisted fertilization procedures. That's what's certainly worrying. If we cannot finish and solve the problem until the end, then it would certainly be advisable and I agree with the above-mentioned that sanctions for possible manipulation should not in any case be only infringing, but must be criminal drastic sanctions in order to at least resolve a certain part in that way. What we didn't talk about here today is the conditions that clinics must meet and that they can perform the medically assisted fertilization procedure. The bill says that such conditions, i.e. those passing medically assisted insemination and people who are more familiar with these conditions, will only meet two clinics, one public and one private clinic in Croatia. We don't need to mention who owns this private clinic. But the question arises: What about those patients who do not live in Zagreb, how long will they have to wait for the medically assisted fertilisation procedure? How long the waiting list will be and such conditions are limited to a small number of those who can provide such services becoming once again a stone of interference and open space for possible manipulation. I'm sorry the minister left. I just wanted to tell him that I didn't praise him, that when I thanked him on behalf of the club it wasn't praises. It was a simple human thanks for what was implemented from the first to the second reading in this second proposal. Unfortunately, we are witnessing in this parliamentary representative that often the proposal in the first reading and the proposal in the second reading are exactly the same regardless of how all ministers were in public debate. However, since that public debate, there was no letter in the second reading. I really thanked you on behalf of all those who care about these changes, and these changes are very important to them. And I thanked the minister as the promoter who sits here today because we also don't often have the opportunity to see, because unfortunately, a little minister of courage seems to come here to the assembly, and then it's easier to send a deputy, and possibly even a better assistant like that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13197	Still ministers can't send assistants to the plenary session, only deputies can come. Dear Dinko Buric, you have your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13198	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I actually want to use this individual debate to make a few more comments, but specific things. I spoke in the debate on behalf of the club on the situation that since the original March 2012 proposal, which was made by the expert commission, here is whose text we came on the way from the Ministry of Health to the Government, the concept of protection of human rights disappeared. Unnecessarily. Unnecessarily because this argument is therefore the reason for a thorough doubt that the legislator, in this case, is the Ministry of Health, and only knowingly, by leaving that concept in Article 3(1) to be guided and protected by human rights, and not only by dignity and everything else written to justify new recommendations. But it's terrible because it becomes someone aware of that fact, and it was re-emphasizing the proposal of the Health Ministry's Professional Commission, so the fact that it should stand in the law that we have nothing else to conclude but that someone from the party's summit is deleted from that provision. But it's not the only question and it's the only question of change compared to what the waist says. Here you are, Mr. Minister, and it's good that you're here, so I'm using the opportunity to ask another question, and it's about number 12. So you can see for yourself that for the vast majority of us who oppose this bill is almost the most controversial fact that the fertilization of all 12 egg cells is allowed. But how do you comment on the fact that we know that the National Commission for Medical Aided Insemination of the Ministry of Health has not submitted a proposal to be able to take and fertilize 12 ova rather than 8? The National Commission, according to the information we have from the members of the National Commission itself, has sent a proposal to the Ministry of Health, if I'm wrong, I'm asking you to correct me, you're free to say it's not true, but I think it is. And if the National Commission, therefore the profession suggests that the Ministry of Health be allowed the possibility of fertilising 8 eggs which was once again a significant increase in relation to the existing law, who, for whatever reason and for whose authority, gave himself the right to change the decision of the profession? Because number 12 appeared not at the recommendation of the National Commission you appointed, whose members you even changed not according to the recommendation of the profession but obviously by the will of the policy. I would like to hear the answer to that question because I think it is with this fact that, on the way from the ministry to the government, the proposals of the profession are changing, and it is already worrying. I would like to take advantage of these few minutes and point to a few more problems that arise in this final proposal, which has not even been in the first reading. This Article 10(4) is no longer strictly limited to 42 years. Come on, we can even say okay, it's no problem. But what's the big deal? The problem is that it says that "the age of a woman is no longer strictly limited to 42 years, but usually leaves the possibility of being able to for particularly justified health reasons," I quote, "can enable the right to medically assisted insemination and women after 42 years of life on HZZO's burden." Now, look, leave the possibility for a specialist doctor to come a woman from 43 years of age who knows him, he's from acquaintances, and he'll advise her on the law, and I'll give you a commission to decide on and can go to HZZO's burden. And isn't there a legitimate concern that a patient who the doctor does not know and who silences the possibility that you may be subject to the procedures of medical help insemination, but does not mention that she has the right and the burden of HZZO if that commission approves. Article 22 is very significant that in this final proposal the law left out the last item, that was paragraph 5, from that original proposal which prescribed that the banks of the sex cells, sex tissues and embryos should be formed within 6 months. What's the reason he was in the last reading, and now he's gone? The failure to determine this time-limit actually leaves one air-empty space for such banks to exist, and from experiences in the world it is known that they require large funds. Similarly, the deadline for the establishment of a national register from 3 months to 6 months has been extended in Article 58. Well, now I think I'm right to ask, we took part in that debate, too, and on television when you said, we're going to introduce order quite resolutely. And you need to introduce order, that's right. And it was supposed to have existed long ago, but the fact that there are really great difficulties to make that register. But doesn't it mean that you're giving up three to six months, isn't that a sign that there's an objective possibility that it won't be after six months? And that we will have a situation which is unfortunately a real life that even those whose traps are frozen today to ask and that they need them will get the answer that they're not even certain doctors about whether it's their cover they've frozen. It's unfortunately a reality, and it's unfortunately something that gives us time to run. So in our first reading we had three months and it's at six I'm afraid it might be then not even be in six months. The ministry had time to prepare for the adoption of the register that there was good will, organisation, etc. Even in that sense. And you know, I'm gonna end up with that thesis again, this is medical law, but he's deeply, deeply ethically problematic for all the gray reasons I've said, and he's deep down and he's secular. And it's not good not to listen to church attitudes if you listen to the attitudes of various civil society associations, especially homosexual associations, etc. The church's views are well-intentioned, they are not to the harm of Croatian citizens but to their benefit. And of all the proposals that were made after the first reading in the public debate, you yourself said you only respected proposals after talking to three lawyers. Neither one of us has been accepted from the opposition, but here I appeal to you, let's not rush to this law or Friday, let's postpone it for more time to discuss it, I'll finish the honored Mr. Vice President with this appeal, delay it, a little reason and listen to what the church says. We are a secular state, but church attitudes are unusually important to the entire community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13199	Thank you, too. Next up for debate, Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13200	Maybe I'll start different. Europe is a wealth of diversity. And it really is. Croatia in the EU should also be part of this richness of diversity. I don't know this law is one of the most liberal in the EU, and I think that the Croatian government is particularly here as a legislator of this law, and the Croatian Parliament should also keep that in mind, that we don't have to be traditionally liberal so liberal that we don't have to strive to be the most liberal in Europe. I don't know if Mr. Minister knows that soon a bill comes to the Dutch Parliament to declare children of 12 years of age to be sexually mature. So what Europe and individual EU founders are bringing is also being debated in their parliaments for Croatia, in any case, and for each of us in particular, I do not think it is acceptable. I don't think there's anyone in this assembly against medically assisted insemination, on the contrary. But we're against this really preliberal law. A law that enables the freezing of 9 or 10 living beings of future children. I asked one question at the first reading that would have been done if I was possibly a donor of male sex cells how many years ago, and that in this House, since there was probably no register at the time and probably made it possible to sell and manipulate such fertilized female egg cells, which would have been done to make 12 appear here and if I gave more than 100 Vinkovics, since I believe that they would have received the trust of the citizens and entered the Croatian Parliament. Only then would we have a Mr. Vice President's extremely big problem. But let's go back. Well, they wouldn't just be Djakov, they'd be on. [[And all the mayors.]] But come back a little bit I want to get some jokes into this house first. Let's get back to the real problem of this law. So, first of all, I also urge that we do not vote on this law on Friday, that, like that referendum on the amendments to the Labour Act signed by 719 Croatian citizens, which is indeed a respectable number but also should not be ignored by these 133 thousand who have so far signed by opposing such a law, which first of all coincides with the worldview of most Croatian citizens. And it should not be forgotten that this law is practically not to say wrongly united almost all the religious communities that are all against such a law. For us the embryo is a shell being and we were all traps, embryos someone was lucky to be born by natural means, someone here was born a medically assisted fertilization, but it's the essence of this law that happens with 9 or 10 traps that freeze. Perhaps the error in this law is this number of 12 fertilized female egg cells. Perhaps Mr. Minister, you wanted to write 21 in the bill to be in line with plan 21, so as plan 21 does not exist here I am asking you first of all to allow a broad public debate that is really about the fate of unborn children. The next thing you know here, which I have to point out is that and also by referring to the Constitution, so the family is mentioned in the attitude, the marriage is mentioned, the extramarital community is not mentioned anywhere in the business of a woman, a man or a same-sex community. And for me, gay isn't okay or ever will be, here's what I'm using in English so that someone won't be looking for a break at this late hour to say that it's a talk from a pub, a bar, or I don't know what, for me it's not okay, and by that I'm different. It's a thing of the world. For me, the family is the foundation of society. But above all, this law also offends the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Convention on the Rights of the Child, the UN Declaration of Human Rights, the European Charter of Human Rights, ultimately to you doctors and that Hippocrates oath you took. So this law insults everything. For me, a child first of all has the right to both father and mother, and in that first reading, we all talked about couples, married couples being treated for infertility, who can't have children. This law will not cure infertility or medically assisted insemination, but I say we are not against medically assisted insemination but above all against such a bad law. At the very end, here I'll even leave some time, a business capable woman, so if you had the courage, it's said in the people that you sell certain things under the kidneys then it should be put there in any case by the same sex community, that is, in this case, from this name LGBT only lesbians. So who can tell me that this woman has to go to medically assisted insemination if she's never even tried it because it's foreign to her. So who found that she was infertile, whether it was the Minister, the Health Ministry's commission, the Prime Minister, the Government, someone here from the Parliament, I'm not. Who determined that? So let's not joke, Croatia is not and I repeat it, it does not say in the Constitution, the country of same-sex communities, Croatia is a world state, almost 90% Catholic, or citizens are Roman Catholic religions and let this law offend and feel almost 90% of the citizens of this country. Insults those who fought for Croatia, even during '41. By '45. on any side, and also during the Homeland War. And now that you're here, I'm asking the question again, since in that plan 21 that became Plan 25, since there are more of us who can naturally make children, and we have wives, and most of the people of Đakov live in marriage, in marriage communities, there are also several extramarital communities, but there are no same sex communities, when Djakovo will finally get a birthplace so that someone will be Djakovchanin or Djakovchanka at birth. So I'm personally against this law, a law that allows same-sex communities to have a child, and another problem that is related to that adoption is only one data, see as a health minister when same-sex communities adopt children then men couples mostly adopt male children, and female couples adopt female children.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13201	Thank you, colleague Vinkovic. Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13202	It never happens that the opposite is adopted. For what?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13203	Time. Thank you. We have a replica of your exposure, Branko Box. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13204	I thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Vinkovic, you said gay wasn't okay. I share that light, too. Since you're coming from Djakov and you're a shocker, there's a song A.G. Matosha that could get in the way, and the title is "Modern pagan." He says in a charming position a modern pagan hired by a stranger to throw a chain at us, that blubbering about justice lies about other people's interests and slanders.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13205	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13206	I will also answer you with a song called Shock, a miracle dedicated to me. I am the son of golden grain fields, the fields of land, the forest of oak, I love my mother, my father, and I fear only God. So the song mentions both father and mother and God. And there were even quotes from the Gospels that the minister said, so here I am just saying that all MPs have received a statement from the Permanent Council of the Croatian Bishop's Conference that opposes this law, where there are a number of civil associations that oppose the law, and what is most important is the opposition of most MPs to this law, and even representatives who are in the ruling coalition. So here I am using this replica opportunity if they really are Catholics, if they are not just Catholic traditionalists and they go possibly on Sundays when the cameras are on and when the Holy Mass is transferred to the 2nd Program or on Easter Day, Christmas or possibly some mass for the homeland, to think carefully about how they will raise their hands because raising hands for such a law is a sin, a sin that allows... Mr. Dragovan, be parliamentary. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So a sin that allows nine or ten children to die, a sin that allows LGBT people to have children and that's a sin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13207	Thank you. Next to discuss Drazen Djurovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13208	Thank you. Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Minister. Despite the fact that I am or the fact that I am an expert doctor in the case of this law everything I knew about medicine I said in my first reading. Neither in any way, nor in what I said, nor in what others have said, which had some proposals and opinions by the legislator, or the ministry has not taken into account, so in this case, in the event of this debate, I will actually focus more on the world's topics and why I am explicitly against it. So here, however, the central issue is the question of the world's morale aspect of life, marriage and family relations. I don't know if the minister is even aware of the consequences of this law. If he is aware and if you are aware, and yet you insist on that law then it is for our society and for our worldview a rather problematic one, and I would say a dangerous phenomenon. Because it's simply this law of artificial insemination that puts marriage in the same plane with an extramarital community, but with one partner community. Then the same sex community right to the possibility of artificial insemination he's neither modern nor just, he's dangerous and he's destructive. This law which ensued an embryo, which reminds me of biologically speaking to me that this life or not biologically is fully defined, one defined individual, immeasurable whether she was born or not, created by the merger of male and female sex cells. So, this law that treats this embryo and this man as goods, as a means to allow anyone who wants or needs to get a child this and this law that will freeze, unfreeze, implant, distribute, and the surpluses of those persons, these people, these embryos destroy that and such a law deserve not only a conviction but a broad mobilization of all those who hold to the natural order of things, which hold to family, which hold to life and to man. This law united against all religious confesions in the Republic of Croatia, for no matter how, by name or in which building man addressed God, this God in every religious community always asks man to respect the dignity of human life, to respect man’s dignity. And who will either a Christian or a believer of any confiscation assume responsibility for destroying another man or another human life. There are three issues we often face that promote those who offer us this law. The first is the thesis of no one being forced into these proceedings, everyone has the right to choose. So what's the logic of that? What happens next year is going to come up with the Law of Autonasium and it's going to be said so no one's going to go after anyone who wants to, who doesn't want to, who doesn't have to. After that will come the legalisation of drugs, then there will be legalisation of child adoption for homosexual communities, and where will we end up in which direction? So, you can't talk about who you want, who doesn't have to. He doesn't accept social responsibility and the dominant worldview. The second is that today there are 500,000 infertile people. It's just a lie and just stupidity. There is no relevant record of that. So far, there have been no infertile individuals in the system. There were infertile couples. A couple if at some time they could not naturally have a child through a diagnostic process enter into a group of infertile couples. Now there are infertile persons of various categories and in various ways determined. And finally, of course, the question of what age groups are now in the process, from what age to which we're going to get, we're going to round up the so-called. Infertile persons. And the third question is that this law has something to do with so-called. the white plague or the depopulation trend in which the country is located. It's throwing dust in your eyes. Artificial insemination has nothing to do with population trends. It's just a demagogy. There are few people today or any associations or groups that are together against artificial insemination, nor am I against what many have said against this law. So, the artificial fertilization of infertile couples without any donations to anyone, anyone or anyone without any manipulation and use of the embryo. Yes, I understand and feel empathy towards couples who want to have children through procedures to help fertilize and understand their despair and willingness at all just to succeed in that purpose. But a man must be strong, a man must be able to distinguish between what is good and what is not good. The goal does not justify the means or some think that the objective justifies the means. Hence, to recognize the honest offer of what does not offend the dignity of another man or endangers his life and to distinguish it from, for example, the extremely low offers that extend even to the point where children themselves are used as a means of political promotion or promotion of their ideology. And you have to say this, man, every one of us has to take responsibility as we take responsibility at school for success at school, as we take responsibility for our work results at work, and in our lives we have to be willing to take responsibility for the family and for the offspring if we really want to. It is not enough to live to ignore the issue of parenting until almost the last moments when it is biologically possible or even after these moments, and then insist on some things that are neither moral, nor acceptable to most Croatian citizens. In the midst of an economic crisis in which in the first six months the government has shown no results other than a ludicrous desire to arrest itself and your own, you are opening a battlefield in which you can be sure that you have most Croatian citizens or that you will have them against you. You're shaking up corruption affairs, your government's falling apart, your ministers are wrinkling, you've collected everything that could have been collected, and all the indicators show that you're unable to stop the crisis and start the economy. This law is completely disoriented and deviant about concepts such as family, parents, motherhood, and family responsibility. You must have me against you and against this law. I will do everything within my capabilities, knowledge and ability to ensure that this law fails either to fail or to fall on a referendum that I will strongly support or at the Constitutional Court if a lawsuit is filed because this law is surely and unconstitutional. This law is against the fundamental values of Croatian society. This law is contrary to both family because this law is contrary to man, opposing and living, is opposed to God no matter what faith they have spoken to him. In the last few days, some of you have been drilling to believe in God and that they are Catholics, and we will pay attention to how they will vote. And in the end, I would refer to something else, a brief statement by the minister, although he is now gone, about three souls. We Christians know that man has only one soul. Some read Plato and Plato’s three souls, but apparently time ran over them a little because Christianity came after Plato. A man has one soul and that soul belongs to God. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13209	Thank you. Next up for the argument, Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13210	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's after a few hours of discussion, the first thing I need my colleagues and colleagues to realize is that the SDP has given up the debate. They're gone. Well, there's no minister anymore, he's gone. It doesn't matter. It's just about life. How was that said? Those life issues, it's all ethically neutral, it doesn't matter. They're gone. Look at the list, who picked up from the SDP, the HNS? They can't, okay. You can't, I don't know. You don't want to argue okay. That's the first finding. The other is this one, who, exactly fellow Dragovan now throws away, although he could of course answer the word individually or on behalf of the club, but or could he not? I don't know. Or she can't. Maybe it's a ban. And what he's throwing, we won the election. It was won in the elections, and this obvious way that democracy conjectures in the SDP is that after the election there is nothing more to be explained, to be argued. We've got enough hands in the Parliament, and we're done. Just make an argument, talk, argue, we'll vote, and that's it. And that's what Milanovic would say, and then he'll say hello. That there is no real dialogue, unfortunately, shows us the fact that the preparation of this law has begun. Minister Ostojic emailed members of the Committee for Medical Aided Insemination. Some, not all, some. And we asked the prime minister questions before we even knew that the question of e-mails would be so relevant to relations within the Kukurik coalition. And he says they're because of the light, we're right, what Dragovan says we won, now we can replace people and according to the light. You've got the wrong world view you've been replaced, you're leaving. Such a blatant explanation is indeed what led to division, new divisions in Croatian society. And it shouldn't be, it shouldn't be because really if we had to have something in common it's solidarity with married couples, according to couples who are infertile. To have this one compassion and indeed in this House to discuss how to pass the best possible law that will respect, of course, the Constitution and the right of every human being and the entanglement of everyone because it is a human being, the right to life. And here's another thing I'm going to come up to say about it, there's a lot of trying to say today that here's just for some religious reasons, it's claimed that life begins with conception. No, that's the science of the 21st century, certainly proved it, proved it. And this is even in this explanation of the final proposal, it was not in the first place, but then we warned the Committee on European Integration, so we also got some explanation of this EU Court of Justice ruling where it is indirectly recognised that both the government and the ruling coalition know that life begins with conception. Although it would be good for the minister to decode and say it. Because there were these discussions, there were these statements at the beginning of this debate publicly where some thought that life began with birth, others with conception, etc. Which is incorrect. You know exactly when it starts or science says it. Now, if we have found that this is not a thing of the world's horizon but that it is truly scientifically proven then the question of the world's horizon is this: are we going to respect this life or are we going to endanger it, or are we going to freeze it or manipulate it? Croatian Democratic Community, as well as HDSSB colleagues, from the Croatian party's rights Dr. Ante Starcevic in this debate clearly sided with the culture of life. And yes, there is this conflict between the culture of life and the culture of death. And in developed democracies in such debates, the parties raise that discipline and allow each parliamentary representative to vote on his conscience. I'm sorry they didn't make that decision in the SDP. Even though I talked to their leadership about it. I think it would help a better and better debate. The thing is, of course, whether all Croatian citizens have to financially support a system that will go to the point that unfortunately some children will be condemned to be born without a father, to give that possibility of artificial insemination to women without partners or partners or women who have changed sex into men, and now the state pays them artificial insemination. It's the things of the world, but it's not the question of the world's horizon when life begins. It's not a matter, and it shouldn't, it shouldn't be a thing of the world's view of whether we're going to introduce order and good supervision of this system. Not the same people who took part in writing, who own private clinics and then control themselves and tell themselves whether or not they will be manipulated. We can't miss it here if we have it I wouldn't say we give one of the most liberals this is one of the most radical laws in Europe. Here in one France for over 30 years for cloning you can get 30 years of law. In us, this proposal only violates a provision. The minister said, here he is now back, and in some ways I have to say, unlike the SDP parliamentary representatives and his partner, he actively participated, of course, as a proposer in this debate, he said something we have a moment of Bible inspiration that the truth will set us free. And indeed the quote is correct. And the truth is that life begins with conception, the truth is that this is the moment when each of us has to decide personally whether he wants to be on the side of this truth and culture of life or on the other side? That's the real question. That's the question that every parliamentary representative who's here half a year ago has sworn and said that we will stick to our honor by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And what does the Constitution say? Just seven words. It's as simple as any truth. Every human has the right to live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13211	Thank you. We have three replicas. The first one was Dinko Buric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13212	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Stier, I wanted to rephrase to some of your other allegations, but especially before that, I will say the inappropriate reaction of my fellow Dragovan, so winning the elections did not give the rulings the right not only as the prime minister said somewhere before then to hire party-like people, although it is understandable that this goes with power. However, winning the elections certainly did not give anyone the right to adopt or propose such laws impose the will of the minority on the majority. Despite the fact that the majority here is in the political sense of SDP's representative and the ruling coalition of the proposals they make is contrary to the will of most Croatian citizens who are believers and have this worldview. And for this very reason, although 88 hands and more will vote for this proposal, do not forget what happened in Slovenia that almost identical proposal fell in the referendum, do not underestimate the will of the citizens to resist such bill proposals, and for this very reason, the HDSSB Club has proposed and asked that the day after tomorrow when we vote we vote by name because everyone who declares and feels us as believers commits to it. And what I've already said here is here is a doctrinal note on some issues related to the participation of Catholics in political life. Not party discipline if we are believers then we cannot act on one side of the believer, go to church, I don't know how you will receive honor if you participate in your vote by passing such a law that is a great sin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13213	Thank you. We have an answer to your replica. A fellow Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13214	Well, that's exactly what you fellow Buric said, it's hypocrisy, it's about that. But what my colleague Dragovan threw away will actually return to them as a boomerang. If they really think they've been given a mandate to have same sex communities at a small door now they can have children, the small door is now trying. If they think that and it seems to me that such a question was in that show where you participated together with the minister was clear on this referendum question that most viewers of course might not be a real indicator but at least in that show most viewers said that it was against it. I am convinced not only most viewers of this show but most Croatian citizens. The colleagues are really fooling themselves if they think they won the election and they got a mandate for it. It would be much smarter to deal with the real problems of Croatian citizens, and there are many of them, so of course there are also in this portfolio. And that's where we work together, and I agree not to open up questions like this. There are plenty of authorities for Croatian citizens who have not launched any real structural reform within 6 months, did not deal obviously with increasing investment, reducing unemployment but what did it open? Ideological issues from Bleiburg to the move of the Captain of Religious Sciences and here is the question of freezing human beings instead of dealing with the real issues that are at the heart of Croatian citizens' interests.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13215	Thank you. Next replica, Anna Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13216	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You mentioned in your speech a rapid Internet shift by the National Commission for Medical Aided Insemination. Here I was just about to suggest that I look at this commission which is an extremely important national commission, so that it oversees the implementation of this law. I was going to suggest that why don't we members of this committee choose in this House. This is an important law for us, so if you want ethically, worldly, many such committees and councils we choose in the Parliament, we could do so with this, and then there would be no such emergency and speedy Internet shifts, but we would hear for reasons anyway. I've heard that Mr. Minister has mentioned some reasons that justified such a procedure, but I think we'll find them out from the media, so if we knew them, we could take part in that decision ourselves. But why does it matter? See this National Commission is now given a task under this law, so it mainly gives opinions, consent to the previous one, etc. but it is said in one sub-paragraph that it or does not deny the authorisation for the introduction and use of new medically assisted fertilisation procedures in Croatia. Now Article 37 speaks, for the introduction and use of new medically assisted fertilisation procedures in the Republic of Croatia, the approval of the National Commission is required, so the bodies appointed by the Minister. And I ask you nicely in Article 9 says explicit and taxing: medically assisted insemination is carried out by applying the following procedures, that I do not taxively list six procedures, and none more and no provision unless this law says otherwise and if any committee says otherwise. So the only one who can introduce a new procedure under this law, that's what it says, I don't know if the minister thought so, but it says, the only one who could introduce a new procedure is this Croatian Parliament by supplementing the existing law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13217	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13218	So there is no way that something that is taxed by law prescribes that the body appointed by the minister will change.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13219	We have a response to the replica. Your time's up, pals. Replication response, Comrade Stier. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13220	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here, colleague, I really don't see what might be the reason for someone to be e-mailed. Well, at least it would be, when we talk so much today about hearing people, if we were in constant contact with those who are interested in this law, so I guess it would be human to sit down and talk to people who still made a contribution to that commission, not to change them by email. It's cold, it's arrogant, it's not right. But here you see, there are colleagues and fellow great believers and asking us to believe, and even the prime minister asked for that inaugural speech that was quite inspired, he said hold me by the word, we'll name only capable, we'll be different, so he said. Unfortunately, the practice has shown that we cannot trust this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13221	Thank you. And the last replica, Drazen Djurovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13222	Thank you. Well, here's what you said, Agent Stier, talking about how the SDPs believe they've won the election and they're making world-famous changes in Croatia. Well, it must have been hard for them these years, and here I see as soon as they got power they wouldn't want to go to Mass anymore, it'll probably come down soon when the new headmaster of HTV comes in to take off the transmissions of these missions because we have the sense that it's more transmitted, which we need. But interestingly enough that someone who is so secularly, well said this law is not the most liberal but the most radical, that someone who is worldly so far left is radically interesting when it comes to economic issues that are greater right-wing than you. That's interesting to see. So on the one hand, in this world-wide part of the world, they push us, they rush us, they push the church under the carpet, they push us these same-sex communities, they push that legalization of drugs, they really break the family model through these laws that they promote. And on the other hand, it's interesting that they're so much promoting this huge capital, and they care so much about that big capital, it's a very interesting combination. I don't know exactly what that political ideology would be called. And in the end, without the intention of insulting anyone, but if really by your conscience you would vote on this law, without the intention of insulting anyone, surely a part of the MP would vote against this law, but I believe that part of your MPs would vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13223	Thank you, too. We have a reply to the replica, here's my colleague Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13224	Well, as far as I'm concerned, I'm talking inside the club and I'm extremely glad that my colleagues and colleagues are on the side of the culture of life. However, any parliamentary representative may and must vote on his conscience, and this should also apply to the SDP's Club of Representatives. And when you were looking for some explanation about what this ideology is that goes in favor of some large capital, so you know what ideology is. That big capital will always be managed, yes, and you've applied it well now and in this law. It does not go with solutions that are tailored to those couples that have an infertility problem but it goes according to those owners of these artificial insemination clinics and we have also observed that before. So these two things obviously aren't in collegiate, and in the SDP they just reconciled them, how to break marriage, how to break the family, and how to put profit above the fundamental human right to life. ... I would only use the last 30 seconds, my colleague Djurovic, to repeat what I said at the beginning. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The SDP doesn't seem to care about the real debate, otherwise they would have come forward, at least they'd be replicating, but they're not, they're getting, because they just don't have arguments.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13225	Comrade Stier, time. My colleagues, I ask you to refrain from throwing away, we have the institutions of the Rules of Procedure. The minister called in his word. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13226	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. First of all, an apology to our esteemed Croatian colleague, Davor Ivo Stieri, and I was a minute and 17 seconds late, I really had an urgent phone call. So excuse me for not hearing the first 77 seconds of your speech, but I'll take a look later. You know for yourself when St Bartholomew was, right, St Bartholomew when, 9 days after the Great Lady and you know that two days after the Great Lady was one wedding, then in 1572 at St Bartholomew on July 24th, there was a famous Bartholomew night, which you know very, very well, but you certainly don't know that that night at least here on the side of the predecessors in the last few terms was so-called. The famous Bartholomew night cuts off the head, especially in the health system, my fellow doctors know that. For the first time this year, there was no cutting off anyone's head, not a single board of directors if he didn't run out of mandate, and the Bartholomew night you know it, Calvinists, Huguenots, and therefore the smart organized states learned a lot. I personally did a lot, because I didn't want to repeat everything that my predecessors or Predatores did, as you will. Cut my head off, I won't and I'm not except for one director of KBC Osijek because he made a debt, didn't pay 1,000 days. That's what anyone would do. So, it wasn't Bartholomew night, and you're right, really here's the commission that I know about e-mailed, when I was alone in early January and there was a line of thanks. The former justice minister is very well aware of the choice of DSV members, she has some experience. I don't know where the law school ended, but she probably heard about Mrs. Professor Brave who stayed, the other president of the commission. The rest, of course, are for these reasons, so the reason is that he may have chosen some other professor verse professor, a university professor, for example, from psychiatry to a fellow I usually appreciate, who was with you at a press conference yesterday, who was a member of the former commission. Not with you yesterday, but with other colleagues who were a member of the committee. Yeah, I don't think he was a fellow Stier yesterday at a conference at the centre of a major political party, but he was a colleague who was a member of the former commission. There are no members of the political party, none in this commission. I guarantee, continuity exists. However, there was no Bartholomew night, after which the Calvinists went to Canada. No Mrs. Tomasic knows the history of Quebec and Canada extremely well, and I don't doubt it and she probably learned about Bartholomew Night. And she learned what, unfortunately, South America doesn't have, and Canada has solidarity, and you mentioned solidarity. Yes, solidarity has preserved us, the European health system. And that's why we give out of pocket, out of salary, and you and me 15, now 13 percentage points for the health system and we give for the treatment of infertility of fellow Stier. Yeah, there are couples who have these diagnosis. There are people who have a diagnosis of stomach cancer. There are patients who have a diagnosis of pulmonary embolism. Solidarity, Croats participate in this solidarity and will participate. We have to help each other. That's what Mrs. Tomasic knows. She's gone from Quebec. I'm not criticizing her because I don't have that right, but in South America, there's been no reason for that. But it'll come to South America, too, that solidarity must come. I guarantee there is no Vinkovic, but tell him the esteemed, respected counterpart Buric, the surveillance will be absolutely, absolutely safe. And you're right, my colleague Buric, I've extended from three to six months. I need to be honest with you that you cut out all the laws and drafts of the law and made it very clear. I'd rather have extended it to six months than be late. And of course all those who haven't lived in Croatia in the 1990s, so I'll do it again. In the 1990s, he was an MPO, he was and he does, and apparently he has 1,000 and something, unfortunately, that no one has a register. It's gonna be a register now. Let's put in order, let's put in order, so I said this is a system, a law that introduces order, nothing else, guarantees you nothing else. We were very careful, so we introduced some novels because we had to compare the Family Law, the Law on the Same Sexual Communities and a whole series of other laws, so we made some changes in Articles 10 and 11. Because we had to adapt because it's a complex. But the basic line is to help all those who are being treated for infertility. The surveillance will be good, there will be no manipulation, don't be afraid of it. It is simply impossible in Croatia. Croatia is a courteous, courteous state and I guarantee it. And to those who fear nepotism, I don't know who's afraid of nepotism here, there's no nepotism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13227	And to you, Minister. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. The first one was Davor Ivo Stier, please come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13228	Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13229	Excuse me, Comrade Stier. Here's my colleague Shuker, the breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13230	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, unfortunately I had to react. Article 210 was broken by both you and the Honorable Mr. Minister who clearly says that the speaker can only speak about a subject that is on the agenda. And paragraph 2. If the speaker moves away from the agenda theme, the chairman will warn him.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13231	Explain, please!
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13232	In the first two-thirds of his speech, the minister did not hold the topic we are discussing today. Look, I understand the nervousness of my colleagues from the SDP because the entire Croatian public is mostly against this. Economic indicators are evidence...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13233	Comrade Shuker, we got it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13234	Look, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, I would ask only a minimum of tolerance for all of us in this House to have equal rights, nothing else. So in a very inspired rhetorical story, Mr. Minister first told us about three souls, and now he's telling us about Bartholomew Night, etc. And it's all gone. Comrade Jurjevic, you've had your chance on behalf of the club, you've had 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13235	Comrade Shuker, 15 minutes have passed. I think I've shown you enough space to hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13236	But you hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13237	Yeah, yeah. Now I'm going to give you an interpretation.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13238	Well, no, it's not an interpretation. You have an opinion, an interpretation, do whatever you want.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13239	My colleague Shuker, I am trying to stick to the Rules of Procedure and it says that the President, after a breach of the Rules of Procedure, gives an interpretation of whether or not there have been injuries to the Rules of Procedure. I say there were no injuries to the Rules of Procedure for a simple reason because the minister, speaking of the subject, answered the same questions asked or interpreted them. All of us together in some way when we discuss it then we would, I mean let's be objective. The vast majority of the 10 minutes we had in individual discussions today were at least talking about the subject or speaking in its own way. And the presidents who chaired today were more than tolerance. But fellow Shuker, you know there was no damage to the Rules of Procedure. I direct you, which you consider to be your colleague Shucker, lift the bat to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure. There's a phonogram, a tone record, and in fact, I'd be glad to finally get one that one of you MPs on either side is hurting the Rules of Procedure on the board that the board assesses, listens and assesses whether there's been any injuries to the Rules of Procedure. Believe me, I could use a lot of help with the session's follow-up. And I believe some doubts or dilemmas would break. He was injured many times today with a correction of an incorrect quote, I tolerated, I let go, I commented on what I was right. I don't think there's any need to do that. We have a correction to the incorrect quote, Davor Ivo Stier. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13240	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Yeah, I wasn't on one of the presses yesterday. It is incorrect that these removed members of the commission were in HDZ. Mr. Celic may be a member, or he is, but Professor. Markeljević, as far as I know, is not, and she has been replaced, and as far as I know, the expert is on this issue. It was even in the European Parliament. But here's what you probably didn't refer to, and maybe you should. And maybe apart from one e-mail, you should have something more to that person. I'm not talking about Argentina. You said on the one hand that it was an orderly country, half an hour or so ago, you didn't say I was coming from an orderly country, and I might agree with that, too, but now it doesn't matter, and then you said that they don't know what solidarity is. That's incorrect and it's almost so offensive. Well, not because of me, but let's be careful and yet you represent the government of the Republic of Argentina who has good and friendly relations with the Republic of Argentina.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13241	Thank you, fellow Stier. And another correction, colleague Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13242	Dear Mr. Chairman, I said in the manner of guests taught by the host here today, we told you that there would be no and that there should be no rough words and that there should be no difficult debates, that we should beware of it, and then you allowed, let's say, Mr. Jurjevic, I didn't understand it because he spoke with his mouth full, he threw something that he didn't have to discuss with anyone here today. Well, it doesn't matter. He has the right to do so, but I am correcting the incorrect allegations of Mr. Secretary being that there is no solidarity in South America. It's just not true. And Mr. Minister, I assume you know that Scientia and the Ipsapotenia est. That's what you're talking about, I believe you know that. I believe, I believe deeply. I don't like that cynicism towards people and I believe that you know that after the holiday of 2.08. I suppose you know what the holiday is, and that's Lady of Angels' holiday, three days after that is a holiday, a very important holiday for the Croatian Lady of Snow. But I don't like to talk like that, I don't like to talk like that here. I don't think that's good. Well, here's how much I've corrected this incorrect quote and please don't be mad at this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13243	Thank you. We continue with an individual debate, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13244	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. So we often like to call, refer to world achievements, achievements, the World Health Organization and the Europeans, and here in favour of the debate according to the definition of the World Sterilities Association, namely fertility, i.e. infertility, i.e. reduced fertility in a couple, I repeat in a couple if within a year if there is a regular relationship, and without contraception measures, there is no pregnancy. I repeat, with one pair. I think he's saying that enough for himself. We are calling on many times the Convention on the Protection of the Rights and Dignity of Human Beings regarding the Application of Biology and Medicine. So please, is it nice to protect the rights and dignity of condemning someone to death or put them there in that steel bottle in liquid nitrogen? Well, there's no "Dear friends" here either. We are full of the mouth of the Convention on the Protection of the Rights of Children, full of mouths, but it is not in the interest, therefore it is harmful for children and is not in the interest of children before or after birth because, except for those who have begun to deny the right to life of some of the born, it deliberately takes away fatherly love and care, which is contrary to the Convention on the Rights of the Child Article 7 and Article 18. And it is also neglected many times that in adulthood there is a problem because many children become activists of various associations that seek both father and mother or want to meet another family, another part of the family and call themselves genetic orphans. These are very important arguments. I also agree with what I told my colleague Spoljar in the debate that this is certainly a deep emotional issue, it is indisputable, and I have personally witnessed in my long-standing practice how emotional it is, but we here have to debate on the basis of the arguments and warn about the adverse consequences that this law will produce. And the arguments are as follows: that this law does not protect human rights and is not in line with the spirit of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, because starting human beings do not guarantee the right to live but in most cases condemns them to death. Second, it is not humane and because of its selective approach, it has a eugenic character which is visible in Article 3(2) where, unlike the applicable law, it is stated that the birth of a healthy child is being conceived, which is linked to the unlimited application of pre-inplantation genetic diagnostics, Article 9(1). But it's also not aimed at solving the problem but at multiplying them in both medical and legal terms. This refers in particular to an unknown number of frozen human beings whose fate is completely unknown to what counterpart Milinovic was talking about. And of course, he also brings doctors, which he spoke of by his colleague Buric, a really difficult one also regarding the Hippocratic position of the oath and the Code of Ethics and Deontology. And the two headquarters of society are also threatened in an attempt to even themselves with other forms of life that they cannot replace at all. So this is enough. There is still, but I think this is perfect enough not to accept this law, and above all that message that my predecessors also pointed out to delay, to be made because there are really so many of these arguments listed. And what are the proponent's arguments? Proposer says we won the election and we promised. Well, it doesn't give you Mr. Minister's victory in the election and promise the right to decide on life and death. He won't. Well, you promised in the election, too, so you'll give citizens a better life, and we're testifying that's not exactly how it works. You did not promise to raise VAT, so you did not promise to increase all prices, etc. but we must say what is fundamental that no one has the right to expose to the mortal danger or surrender to death a certain number of human lives that begin to give birth to another life. And history testifies that a culture that does not protect the weakest members of society and does not respect basic moral principles has no future. So understand this, Mr. Ministers and Proposers, that indeed what this debate confirms is that you really imagine yourself in all these remarks and that the adoption of this law is fertilized in order to actually conduct one debate in one reasoned way rather than on the basis of force or otherwise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13245	Thank you, too. We have a replica of your exposure. A colleague of Dinko Buric's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13246	Thank you. My dear colleague, you have said a few things that I absolutely agree with, but here is another debate, at the end, although our fellow representatives from the ruling coalition are not involved in the debate of the essence of this debate again, it comes down to the fact that none of us is opposed to helping those in need of help. Let us not oppose the application of the provisions of the law to the treatment of a disease called infertility. But we're opposed to what's in the law and it shouldn't have been in the law and that's the number. I didn't speak on purpose until the minister, I didn't want to take that plate to correct the incorrect allegations. Here's what I like about the new Rules of Procedure, so it's a replica, so we can replicate that we get an answer, but I'd like to, and while the minister is here to answer the question of how did the number 12 come up and not the profession suggested, the National Commission didn't propose the fertilization of 12 egg cells but 8? I would like to get an answer to the question from the minister himself which as a doctor not only as a minister, today is, hear for a certain time you will probably not be again, but it is normal for you as a doctor when life begins with regard to the Hippocratic oath and the Code of Medical Ethics? And finally, the essence of our debate, listen not only to opposition but to the voice of the great majority of Croatian citizens, listen to the voice of the church. You don't have to change the law, delay the adoption of this law until it's yet to be implemented. He can be improved he can be improved. Throw out what's not supposed to be in it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13247	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Stephen Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13248	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'm glad my colleague Buric that we agree on these fundamental issues, of course, but I'm glad you've mentioned the doctors for sure this moment. I'm very interested in doctors on the left how they'll be placed on Friday in this section. And I'm certainly in agreement in the part where you said that no one is against helping these people with difficulties. So in this part of the law so far, and when it was passed, we tried to make it easier and help these people to bear witness to this data. So after the medical fertilisation procedure, 24% more children are born, 35% of pregnancy, etc. These are all data that say that this law so far is the current law that was effective and that it had certain achievements. But, of course, we must certainly strive to make sure that in such things that are extremely moral and ethical and however we want to define them here, legal experts have also mentioned that there is indeed a legal flaw that has to be considered and approached in a quality way once again because these are things that we really need to approach in such a way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13249	Thank you, too. Next up for a hearing, Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13250	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We've been discussing this bill for almost five hours now. A lot has been said so allow a few findings at the beginning. Obviously, we all agree that no one is opposed to medically assisted fertilization, no one has anything against the most modern medical solutions to help couples without children so that these couples can reach children. However, what is actually slow, and it seems to me to be a misunderstanding throughout this debate is about insinuating this law into social ethical and moral values. There's been a warning about a few things. It was first warned about the creation, destruction, "killing" of excess living beings, it was warned that this law endangers the fundamental values of society or destroy family values, it was warned that children have the right to both parents. We have, however, heard from the Prime Minister that this is primarily a medical law, that it should be respected in the assessment of this law of scientific logic, scientific achievements, however, it should be openly said that this argument of deplacement is not a scientific issue in view of these social consequences of this law, because regardless of the legal logic, regardless of the science of the 20th, 21st or 23rd century. It belongs to what the minister did not want to hear in the area of philosophy, worldview, values. And here I'm doing this I'm going to use a milder variant of the unintended, unplanned and harmful consequences of this law. So let me not repeat myself with what has already been said but rather to warn about some things that we can expect to happen pro futuro. The law stipulates that the donor has no right to know the identity of whom she donated or donated sex cells. We can foresee possible social consequences that the donor and his relatives will engage in social relations that will have immoral or legally unacceptable relations. We can predict something else, a 20-year-old donor, 30-year-old donor has one relationship to motherhood or fatherhood, and after 15, 20 years, they'll have the same maybe as strong feelings as those who want to have children. What are the consequences of such a law? On the other hand, it is said that a child has the right to know who his biological parents are, what consequences this will have on that child and the family in which he will live on that child when he goes looking for his real parents. This law doesn't say anything about it. On the other hand, Article 25 says donated cells must not be used for fertilisation if the donor and the woman receiving medical care are related by blood or body and if there are other reasons why marriage is not permitted. But the law stipulates that a donor can give, donate to two or three families who will not know who their brothers and sisters are. What consequences will that cause? Criminal writers or the science of fiction can invent many of these combinations, but life can invent or lead to even more complex and complex situations. Especially if we take into account all the talk of only 4 or 5, 5 or 10 years of prolonging, keeping these cells, however, the law predicts it in minors that it can be in certain cases by the age of 42, by the age of 50, means over 24 or over 32 years of life which further complicates that life. On the other hand, the provisions of keeping that secret are very soft, or defined because, for example, in Articles 39 and 40 where it is mentioned about giving a solution setting out the conditions for medical institutions to meet the conditions for medically assisted fertilisation, there is no relation to the State Registry for medically assisted insemination. Therefore, it remains a gray area. On the other hand, you have in Article 43, which lists which institutions must have which experts, but it is not said at all that they must have experts in law, psychological and psychiatric counselling, as provided for in Article 13. Not to mention this one half-tronic mentality where these articles say that reports of adverse events are being reported, that the ministry will be delivering these reports to the European Commission by 30 June for the previous year without saying that it will be delivered to the Government or that it will be delivered to the Parliament or that it will be delivered to the relevant parliamentary committee. It's a clear thing that this will indirectly be delivered through total reports, but the importance of that is obviously such that it is delivered to others, and it's not delivered here. On the other hand, and on the same logic in Article 54, that expert analyses and data will be provided to European competent professional societies, but will not be delivered to Croatian companies. So, it's just that it says in itself how insensitive it is on this plan, but overall what's important, this law goes into social values, I'm not going to say planned and intentional but I'm going to say unplanned and unplanned, adverse consequences that we just can't yet predict what can happen in 15, 20 or more years. That's why this law is expedient and should be delayed, thought about all these things and then go to his work and statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13251	Thank you. We have three replicas on your exhibit. The first one was Dinko Buric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13252	Thank you. Dear fellow Professor Tudjman, so in your debate, you reminded me of something I also wanted to point out one thing, and here in all these discussions it promotes. It is about Article 15 of this proposal, the age when it goes to look for either a brother or a sister, etc. In the original bill, the one I was saying was made by the Health Ministry's Professional Commission of March 2012 the age limit was 14 years. Then in the month when she came to the government, the proposal came to us that it was 18 years old. All right, there may be some reason to make it 18 years, but we're asking why it hasn't been 16 years. I'll tell you exactly why and I think it could have been 16 years. It's about the point of maturation. If the profession has said that at the age of 14, the child has matured enough to have the right to know biological origin, I believe that 16 years of age is quite enough, especially given the fact that even under the Law on the I.D., children at 16 years of age are entitled to an I.D. But not because of his identity card, but the age of 16 is already a age in which it is possible if he doesn't know his real origin biologically, if he doesn't know the possibility of having a brother and sister, there's even a theoretical probability, Mr. Minister, I hope you'll agree with that, to happen, life is a strange and incestuous relationship, and that's possible. And if it's not 14 years, there's no big excuse that it's been raised to exactly 18 because we know that there's been a debate to be 16, and here's one of those articles that could be delayed and debated, to be improved in the possible delayed adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13253	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13254	Thank you. It seems to me that this one, not to me, but this law does not predict that anyone can look for a brother and sister. ... No, biological origin versus donor means parent, biological parent, but not possible brothers and sisters. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] In other words, this problem, I've politely said social relations from incestuous to what kind of de facto they open up. On the other hand, there is another psychological problem for families where it simply doesn't have to be a donor or recipient at all, and it can be placed in such circumstances that children will start to ask their parents well, and if I still have brothers, sisters and so forth and what kind of trauma society will be faced with such a law and... again I want to say politely to the unplanned, unintended consequences that will necessarily lead to these adverse and adverse consequences. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13255	Thank you. Next replica, Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13256	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I would refer to two of the claims that the esteemed representative Tudjman mentioned, and one of them is about what this law says about relationships. Namely, he speaks somewhat. However, some of these relationships are somewhat worrying, I would say, written consent to parents at the expense of the necessary costs. This, of course, sounds a little scary, and it is not hard to imagine a situation where some later repent and then try to establish relationships with that child that can cause a series of problems again. The second thing is this mention about the European Union. And there is one problem in Article 54, which has the title of cooperation with the professional bodies of the European Union. In contrast to the obligation to submit an annual report on reported serious, harmful events and serious adverse reactions related to Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council. There actually mentioned a professional society, so this... there is no status of the professional body of the European Union at all, as this title could be suggested before the article. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, I think it would be good to throw it out at all. Because it's an expert association of doctors who are directly interested in the procedure. However, they have a significant financial advantage and have absolutely no function within the meaning of the European Parliament or of the Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13257	Thank you, too. We don't have an answer. We're continuing an individual debate. Anna Lovrin, here are your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13258	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. Infertility is a disease, and we knew it before they kept telling us about this pay phone, and here I'm going to say that the Roda Association has given us a far more gentle, subtle and subtle way of warning us about it. She pointed out the accident and the people who are, couples who are infertile if it were a disease, that it wasn't their own choice or whim, and we're deeply aware of that. We are deeply aware of all the difficulties and all, all the painful procedures and long-term procedures physically and mentally painful and of course we think everything should be done to cure this disease, infertility, and even when everyone else, all the other methods of healing do not produce results to then go towards medically assisted fertilization when the other is exhausted. Whether we have done enough in the field of this previous treatment and whether we are doing enough. I don't know, I leave it to the expert and the minister on the soul. We are certainly in favour of the right to treatment, and we are in favour that all of these procedures, which are also in force but also in the new law, are provided for in the proposal for a new law, of course, except for the freezing of embryos, and that, as the world-wide reasons have been said many times and because of what we believe as well as the science that human life begins with conception. It is also clear that we advocate non-sparring and non-saving in this case of treatment, and therefore I would not limit the number of attempts on health insurance as in the case of other diseases. People have the right to the burden of health insurance to heal until they are cured. What I personally advocate here is the situation that we are for treatment as with all other severe diseases, but not that one person to heal himself may be affected by the threat or the right of another being. That's the only difference. Anything but that. That's in principle, and now I'm going to start speaking by the text of this law why I don't think he's met even the purpose that the proposer wanted. We heard from the minister very explicitly that this law protects the embryos, protects them well and has made far progress in relation to their keeping. It's just not true. It is true that in one article it protects the embryo in a way that it cannot allow for the extra-body fertilisation of an embryo older than six days, fertilising the female cell with another species. So to mix animal and human sex cells, etc., to prohibit the creation of human embryos for scientific research purposes and to prohibit scientific research work on the plot. But here, according to this article, 36 protects them very weakly, protects them with a misdemeanor, a fine where for a person, a responsible person means several thousand kunas. In contrast, at the same time in the Penal Code, there are the same descriptions of conduct as a criminal offence and this crime against humanity and human dignity, trafficking in parts of human bodies, cloning, banning human sex cells and noting with a prison sentence for up to 10 years of life. Why hasn't this law been settled yet? He didn't absolutely solve what would happen with 15000 or how many existing embryos, or those of the future who remain after successfully completed fertilisation, assisted insemination. Why? Because Article 7 says that, therefore, 12 egg cells will fertilize. Only two embryos can be implemented, and the remaining traps are also frozen for five years. The egg cells are being destroyed and the donor is being notified, and the traps are said to require consent from therefore extramarital or spouses that they consent to the donation. Or say they want five more years to be kept at their expense. I ask the question what happens if they don't make a statement, so they don't agree, and they don't pay what's kept? So I think this provision is practically inconclusive. You're not going to charge those storage costs for another five years, are you? And so I suggest that they be kept on the burden of health insurance as much as they are estimated, without being forced into debt to keep them safe. Well, it's not responsible what happens if they don't give consent and they don't say they want to keep themselves safe and don't pay for it. Something must happen to them. And even after 10 years, something must happen. Well, that's not what this law says. So there's no record of what's going to happen to those traps that are already 15 grand. So it would be fair then to say they'd be destroyed. To establish a transparent procedure of how it will be destroyed, who will exercise control over this destruction, how we will prevent abuses, how we will prevent manipulations from somehow disappearing, but we have had cases of which criminal proceedings have been conducted. So, all of this has to be said, it will be destroyed if this law is passed, and obviously it will be, and then it will be prescribed in the way that it should be prescribed. Secondly, it was established by this law that the ban on sex trafficking, sexual tissue and embryos was banned. But there is one exception, paragraph 3 says exceptionally from paragraph 1 so the ban on trade, says, with the permission of the National Commission for Medical Aided Insemination, a bank of sexual cells can collect sex cells. If that is the exception of paragraph 1, I would ask the Minister to answer that question, if that is the exception of paragraph 1, then it means that banks are allowed to trade, i.e. apparently to purchase because I do not know what it means to collect sex stations exclusively from paragraph 1, and paragraph 1 prohibits trade. So, an exceptional trade is allowed for banks to buy sex cells, tissues or embryos if necessary for fertilisation. I read the law says so. And that should be arranged because ultimately the criminal provisions for trading are provided, so it would turn out that then some responsible person in that bank would have to be held accountable for trading, and the law allowed her to do so. The minister told me all sorts of things about the Bartholomew night, and that's what was outside of the Rules of Procedure and beyond the subject. Pretty cynical, he used the argument ad-hominem, personally speaking to me. Usually when people have no arguments then they go with the argument ad hominem, but here's the thing of decency. I don't think we should keep it that way and talk to the MPs like that. So we heard all sorts of things, and about the Bartholomew night of the government, not you, but the government, it all changed, you said you were capable, I'd say similar, and you didn't have to cut anything because so the director's mandates expired over a few months. But the answer to what I asked wasn't what I got. I got a Bartholomew night, but I didn't get this power from the National Council to determine what the tax code was. And I see my time is running out, but only about two more amendment ministers please. I've seen the SDP amendment that I think is good, and I welcome it, which is that the previous procedures are not included, but please don't say 'cause the amendment keeps the statement of the procedures medically aided insemination carried out on the day of entry into force. It would be only those who were implemented on Friday but who were implemented until the day of entry into force of this law. Well, in the amendment and that word, please, it would be good to make it right. And here's the time we're running out, I'd have a lot to say because the law regardless of the scale we're talking about, we agree or disagree on the law has a lot of expressive and nomotechnical mistakes. And I'd like to ask you ministers to answer me if you'll accept the amendment, you've probably got the HNS amendment, will you accept it? Because the HNS amendment also allows a business capable woman who is not in any community, so who is in the same-sex community to come to the aided fertilisation?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13259	Thank you, colleague. We have two replicas on your exhibit. Dinko Buric, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13260	I agree with the finding you made regarding the violation provisions. We talked a little about it today because we've all focused on a lot of other things, but here's exactly this article of 56 violations and 57th, so the reason why this law needs to be done is that there's a reason, not just everything that we've said before, but also this because we're only punishing a fine for a violation that, for a consequence, has a creation in the end of a living being whose destiny is almost certainly those who will not be so... whose fate is almost certainly freezing, and then death just fine it, listen it's a violation of the value of human life. And especially if this time we want to look up to the legislation of EU member states that are so often our role model in some other laws, then here is another example of France in which, for similar infringements, not only are criminal provisions, not for the same but for similar offences from the same group, certain rigorous prison sentences and even with the possibility and life sentences. So this should certainly be strengthened, more rigorously punished, and here's another argument that the law has very much reason for the law to go to work.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13261	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13262	Thank you very much. Yes, my colleague Buric, I don't even think or dare say this, is that the promoter, the ministry and the minister are even aware of what can happen in such established criminal sanctions. So it is possible that the natural person who committed under this law is one of the offenders, and in fact it is described as being a criminal act against humanity and human dignity that for such a criminal act for which a sentence of up to 10 years has been prevented from being pulled out by a responsible person with 7 thousand kunas of punishment. How? Probably because someone who wrote this did not fully consider the Penal Code but also the verdict of the European Court of Human Rights under which we are obliged to behave later in our own words, so also in the practice of the courts in Croatia and the State's Attorney's Office, that if a description of any conduct was carried out, it would not be possible to punish the same thing once again in criminal proceedings. It is possible to manipulate the speedy conduct of a misdemeanour procedure, that the responsible person gets 7 thousand kunas, legal person 70, and that this work is covered forever and will never come under criminal responsibility and sanctions. That's probably not the way I thought about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13263	Thank you. And the next replica of Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13264	I wanted to refer to these very mild penalties as mentioned by the distinguished representative Lovrin, however, and to what she mentioned that should be introduced by commission and under the supervision of solving this excess embryo which now some of the 6, 8, 12 thousand or 15 thousand in the future will be incomparably greater. I'd like to say the commission can, of course, destroy damaged money, seized drugs, etc. And this is about living things, so it's about killing these embryos. So, of course, it couldn't have been solved that way, but it wasn't settled in this law at all. What I think is the same thing to say here is very clear, and that's what perception in public is about this law. There's a perception that's completely guilty of perception that there's been a conflict between the advanced and the reverse forces in this society. So in today's information show, for example. It is completely wrong that 19 EU members have the same law, which is completely incorrect. 19 EU members have special legislation on the issues of medically assisted fertilisation. An entirely similar, something completely different from this law, to be even contrary to this law. Therefore, I just wanted to draw attention to the obvious trendy and public desire to create one false impression when we talk about discussions about this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13265	Thank you, too. We have a response to the replica. A colleague of Anna Lovrin's.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13266	Thank you very much. Of course, that's why we're being stegmatized in this debate, and on the other hand, we're being stegmatized all the time that these people who are unfortunately sick infertile want evil that we're back and back, etc. But it's not the first time. So what I was saying wasn't commissional. I was telling the exact procedure and the procedure. This law absolutely didn't say anything about what would happen to the traps after 5 years or after 10 years or with this existing one now. So there's no procedure. We said that the first anti-corruption agent must be a clear and transparent procedure and procedure. So it would be fair to say that they will be destroyed within that time limit, both by that and by that procedure. That's the first one. Second. It's consent. Article 7 indicates that couples and extramarital couples must give consent if they are to continue to donate excess embryos. However, if one of them dies, if both or one of them dies, no consent is asked no more, but is given. How on what condition, where they're going, there's no idea. In the meantime, if someone is deprived of their business ability, no consent is required. Why not, well, that man has a legal representative or guardian who should be given consent on his behalf. So we have a situation that several articles of this law predict that they are donated to a trap without any consent of those whose say so and it is not good and should also be arranged in a clearer way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13267	Thank you. Darko Milinović. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. This is what we're done with the individual discussion. Finally, Mr. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13268	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, dear colleague. My colleague Buric was so persistent, I had to answer. Look, a whole series of scientific analyses, large studies came up with number 12 and a recent congress that ended last week in Istanbul has put a range of 5 to 20, meaning 5 to 20. In medicine it's very good to read the preliminary, it's academic Reiner knows, preliminary or so-called. Breaking research..., so scientific knowledge from which it predominates that will change thinking. So based on the preliminary results of these large analyses, we came to number 12 because we want to have the best law. Why best, because it's always the law that's recent, at least in some segments better than others, and that's quite clear. Why five plus five years, respected colleague Lovrin, and these five plus five years of knowledge is increasing exponentially to moments of greatness, so in five years, the changed knowledge, some say 20, 30, 40%, and in those ten years, will definitely be new knowledge. So it's very likely, very likely, that the traps that, if, of course, you respected colleagues and colleagues adopt this law, and if these new laws are allowed, highly likely that all these traps that are stored may, after two, five, and certainly seven years, not one. It's even theoretically absolutely possible, and it's practically possible. Try to count, try to count, and you'll get the number, and that's why number 12. Five plus five years, thank you for the amendment, or for the emphasis on the amendments, here's another proof that concilian discussions eventually become very, very good. And when I was talking about South America, in the end no less important, I mentioned South America and solidarity exclusively and only the health system, of course, but you're right. That's another proof that sometimes it takes us, even me, which I'm pretty cold. Thank you very much, dear colleagues and colleagues. I'll see you Friday. Unfortunately, colleagues Lovrin cannot answer what will happen to the amendments. You know how amendments are solved, amendments are decided to study, compare with laws, it's past the time when amendments are resolved by a telephone call or one conversation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13269	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We're finishing work for today. We start tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Education and Education in Primary and High School, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 127. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13270	We move on to the Final Proposal for a Law on Medical Aided Insemination, Second Reading, PZ No. 71, the debate on the text of the law is over. The bench is divided into a review of the amendments. I'm calling on the Minister of Health, first of all, Agent Shucker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13271	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, in accordance with Article 223 and I request a break on behalf of the HDZ Club of 15 minutes to take the final position on how we will vote on this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13272	Representative Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13273	Dear Mr. Vice President, for the same reason we're looking for a break on behalf of the club for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13274	Representative Igor Dragovian.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13275	A flat on behalf of the club for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13276	I'm setting a 10-minute break for the clubs to agree to their...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13277	And the HNS is looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13278	My colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats. We'll get back to work. Time's up for a break. I'm calling on a representative of the HDZ Club who requested a break. Dear Representative Milinovic, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13279	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. Well, after the discussion in the second reading of the Law on Medical Insemination of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, it would like to point out once again very clearly that it is not against the procedures of medical insemination in Croatia. But once again, we want to point out clearly what we are opposed to and what we are against in this proposed law. We are opposed, therefore, to the fact that a woman without a partner has the right to have a medical insemination because, in nature, it is about one possibility that a woman can ask for a gender change. After gender change, it may require medical insemination and we are against such procedures. We are also against such proceedings because of the violation of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, for in this way we are taking away the right of the child to live, grow up with another parent, or father. We are also opposed to the fact that in this law it is spoken after or in the event that one of the partners dies, that in that case, it is donated without consent without the consent of another partner or in the event of an accident and that such consequences arise for the death of both father and mother or non-marriage mates, in which case, the latter is donated. We also invited women in the SDP and women in Croatia and generally women to raise their voice and I did not hear that NGO to destroy the egg cells without consent after 5 years. We called on women to raise their voice against the destruction of egg cells after five years and that within 30 days, women must be informed that their egg cells have been destroyed. We're against freezing the mattresses. You don't have the courage, Mr. Minister, as you had the courage in the SDP in 2002. You don't have the courage to say what to a living being after five years. In 2001, you said after five years that living thing we'd let die. Therefore, the Croatian public must know that against this and such law and these provisions in this law the club of the Croatian Democratic Community and a large part of the Croatian public, which these days is a letter to the Croatian Democratic Community and a club of the Croatian Democratic Community. Yesterday he arrived, there are several people in the world whose opinion is heard with caution. I'm sure we'll agree, and there's one of those people who's also the Holy Father. Yesterday the apostolic nuntium came and asked for it and said, “I shall also say with what right, and I shall say that he considers and prays for God that he did not come too late and that the Holy Father’s opinion is heard. ” Well, now some like this from here I've heard who you, Mrs. Sobol, with what right. It's not the usual thing to say. Well, we're forgetting. Maybe we owe something to the Holy Table. It is not usual for the Holy See to be first, and it was the first to recognise the Republic of Croatia. Pope John Paul II is three times, Pope John Paul II, please assure me Pope John Paul II has visited Croatia three times thanks to Croatia for everything it has done for Christianity and Catholicism and has given support to the Croatian people when it was most difficult for him. [[Intruder Stazic: Ensure.]] He was also our Holy Father Benedict XVI Well, I think we owe so much respect to hear what the Holy Father wanted to say. [[Intruder Stazic: Please conclude.]] Perhaps the minister wanted to say just what Ciceron said: "Let your desires lead to reason!" And I am convinced that your desire is not to let human beings die.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13280	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB club, who wants to talk? Dear Representative Dinko Buric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13281	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. This law has really been told a lot of things these days, and I'm not going to repeat it now. But before we vote, I would like to remind you once again of the words of Mr. Minister himself when he said that he remained surprised how much they were, how much this law caused division in Croatian society, and you said that you were surprised to think that the basic wish of this law is to help treat a disease called infertility. It is no reason, I repeat to the divisions that are really strong in Croatian society, the desire to help treat a disease. The reason is that certain provisions of this legislative proposal, which are neither medically nor legally, ethically, and then are not worldly, are not acceptable, and a compromise solution can be found. It's possible to find it. First and foremost, the most controversial fact is that when we are already taking 12 egg cells, there should be no provision in the law that all 12 egg cells should be fertilized and then frozen. Because that's how we make 12 human beings. In order to help infertile women, the law stipulates that out of these 12 fertilized cells, only 2 exceptional 3 will be implanted in one procedure. There is a compromise solution. Let's watch what Italy did. Take 12 cells, fertilize 2 or 3 as much as you plan to implant, freeze the remaining egg cells because you can use them again and so we have both procedure and freezing. But we don't create living things by that. So it's medically possible. For example, I will remind Italy, their law on medically assisted insemination, and the Constitutional Court has confirmed it has done something similar. That's what I've been telling you, and I'll say it again. It is forbidden, so you can take egg cells and more so that women will not suffer constantly during those hormonal stimulations and everything, but the number of embryos is not allowed to be greater than necessary in one cycle. Let's find that compromise solution. Yes, worldly is problematic for us and that it is possible for women who are not in a marriage or an extramarital community, so same sex communities are allowed to have children. It's not natural, it's not natural. And therefore, Mr. Minister, therefore, gentlemen, we have asked and I hope that it will be honored to vote by name on this proposal not only for the sake of the world view but also for the medical and legal ethical reasons whether and contrary to the Hippocrates' oath, it is contrary to the Code of Medical Ethics and Detentology of the Croatian Medical Assembly, whose members and I and all the other doctors here are present, but also throughout Croatia. Let's not work against what we made an oath ourselves. I propose a compromise solution, and the Rules of Procedure also allow us, we are not asking you to give up now so that someone is triumphantly saying here, they have won their request, or they, the Rules of Procedure in the article, the old Rules of Procedure, because I don't know now which article is new, 158. - there is a possibility of a third reading of the law. Third reading of the law is a special part of the lawmaking process. It shall be implemented on the basis of the Parliament's decision or on a proposal from the Proposer, in cases where a number of amendments have been submitted to the final draft of the law or where amendments are such as to significantly alter the content of the final draft law. I'm appealing, and let's take that step, and that's what the Rules of Procedure lets us do. Let us also go to third reading and give ourselves a little more time so that perhaps here is Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the House of Representatives from wherever you come from we do not cause divisions in Croatian society by respecting your desire to help women and couples treat a disease that the World Health Organization has also defined as a disease. But here, on behalf of the club
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13282	The kindest possible please bring an end.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13283	I'm done. Thank you very much for letting me. In addition to the first name vote, please show yourself about this proposal, think about doing another reading, and I think we'll come up with a better solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13284	Thank you. We have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13285	Thank you very much. I fully support this debate, but I'd like to correct an incorrect allegation. Dear Representative Buric said it would be good for the minister to see how it was settled in Italy. No, it's not. It's wrong. Let him see how it's settled with the current law. The current law is just saying that 15, 30 egg cells can be obtained, 3 of the highest quality cells are singled out, they get a setup, and in this way in Croatia I don't know if 32 children were born.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13286	Agent Milinovic, this is a really incorrect correction. Don't let him look at the other law. Let him look at this one. Well, it's not a correction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13287	That 90% is survival, 75% is fertilisation from fertilized egg cells.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13288	You insist on breaking the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13289	It's 40% embryo-making.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13290	Thank you very much. It contributes to the integrity of the Parliament. Thank you. Stanku also requested the SDP club, Igor Dragovan.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13291	Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. My daughter Eva will be six at the age of nine, and she was conceived in a medically assisted fertilization procedure. As a father, I am absolutely convinced that this law will help couples and people with infertility problems. As a representative of the duties and obligations both of us and of all of us are to ensure that all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia are provided with the best medical care that everyone has the right and the ability to cure the disease, and infertility is that. It's our responsibility. And these people who are minority in Croatia are not second-class people, nor are children conceived in this second-row procedure. Our obligation is to pass a law that will allow people to solve their health problems. And that's a fact. Both citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia are addressed to them and I am saying we will pass this law. We'll bring it in today. Because we talked about him, because it was a broad public debate that didn't last the last three months but the last three years in which we spoke very openly. And I am convinced that the divisions spoken of from this pay phone are artificially created divisions between citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia of that kind of division do not exist because I believe that people who do not have a solidarity with other citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have these problems. And that they don't mind opening up the possibility and passing a law that will allow these others and this minority to get to the child as soon as possible. And everyone has the right to express their opinion and no one is contesting it, but please also allow us to have the absolute right to worry about the interests of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and I think we do it better than you do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13292	Thank you very much. We have one correction to an incorrect quote, the esteemed Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13293	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm correcting an incorrect quote when you said these were artificially created and there's no division. There's a lot of it, I'm afraid. Unfortunately, the fact is that this is the law's proposal, but it's unnecessaryly big divisions, and I'm afraid they could spread even more. The responsibility is all of us, Mr. Dragovan, no legislative proposal is being made to solve an individual case. And no one here is against this legal proposal to help treat infertility. The law can be arranged in such a way as to reconcile all these fates. You clearly don't need it, I'll take it from here. You make 12 immediately plugs, 12 living beings when you're going to implant them and only 2 embryos, and you can freeze the egg cells and then use them later. If necessary, the second cycle, the third cycle, so you can do it six times. Think about it, please and let's go to this third reading, that's the way out to everyone. And we'll get a better law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13294	Thank you very much. We're moving on to a statement on the amendments submitted, there are 19. I ask the Minister of Health, the Honorable Rajko Ostojić to plead on the proposed amendments. Amendment 1 of the HDZ Representatives Club to Article 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13295	The amendment is not accepted. In addition to everything I've said in the debate, which is 5+5 years and the speed that changes especially medical science. There are also funds for the implementation of this law, secured in the state budget that you ladies and gentlemen MPs voted in. Therefore, the amendment is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13296	The applicant of the amendment. Would the applicant of the amendment like to make a statement in his explanation or should we vote? ... Yeah. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm asking for a vote. Who is for Amendment 1 of the HDZ Representatives Club that the government does not accept? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment of the 2nd HDSB representative club to Article 9 and Article 38
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13297	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted. The proposed amendment is not accepted, since the process of pre-implantation genetic diagnostics prevents on the one hand, i.e. prevents the inevitability of the transfer of severe hereditary disease to the child. The development of medical science enables the use of new significantly more perfect and demanding forms of medical aid in the treatment of infertility, which is to kill the key reason for the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13298	Thank you very much. The applicant of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13299	Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. I'll remind you that pre-implantation genetic diagnostics is mentioned here only in two places in this text of the law, I mean Article 9 and Article 38. However, other than that, among other things, medically assisted fertilisation is not defined anywhere, neither purpose nor nature, nor criteria, nor restrictions on application, nor sanctioning abuses, possible abuses of this expensive, and you will recognise a technically very demanding procedure. Neither the relevant expert committees nor the public debate was carried out on this process. I would remind you that from the Council of Europe documents, from that survey conducted among 32 countries, very different solutions were found. Some countries, therefore, fully prohibit preimplantation genetic diagnostics, some approve it under very restrictive conditions, and some have not yet, have adopted a clear policy in this regard. This is why we propose that, without clear, legally defined conditions and criteria, this law is not passed, because it is not on the trail of European trends. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13300	Who's in favour of an amendment to the HDSSB's club that the government doesn't accept? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment of the 3rd HNS representative club to Article 10
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13301	The amendment is not accepted. Although it is, therefore, clear, as the Club of Representatives says, that the Constitution in Article 14 declares the equality of all persons, all people with regard to the application of their rights, prohibiting discrimination against human beings on any basis. Not only that, this principle, adds to paragraph 2 that speaks of equality of all laws. In particular, it would mean that our citizens and citizens of Croatia, Croats, as well as foreigners have equal rights before courts and other bodies. But that's what laws are about, that's exactly what laws exist from, because there are categories of people whose legal status differs. The right person of the right of us adults, pardon the rights of children of the rights of adults. At the very least, the political rights of foreigners living in Croatia, who are the same persons, human beings, of course, from us citizens and citizens of Croatia, or what we hope to correct, that women retire earlier than men. Indeed, given your amendment, we have had to consult a whole series of experts in constitutional law and recent literature, including the European Court of Human Rights ruling, M.S. Generals versus Austria, since 13.11.2011. So this is primarily and exclusively medical law. Infertility is a diagnosis, there's a MKB, there's an international classification of disease and under point N/97, so Nasha 97 is a diagnosis of infertility, this Infertility Act. That's why there is a law, and what I have explained to my previous amendment, dear colleague Buric. So, on the other hand, there's a whole series of other laws that, as I see it, as I expect to change in the second half of this year, and of course we're going to comply with this new law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13302	The applicant of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13303	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. With of course a great disappointment that I have no intention of hiding, but by respecting the explanation, especially this last sentence and announcing the amendment of other laws and believing that we will have the strength to take steps that are expected from a social democratic coalition in power. At this point, we are withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13304	The amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment of the 4th HDZ Representative Club to Article 10.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13305	The amendment is not accepted. A whole set of changed items. So let me be, a little, a little bit more extensive, respected colleagues and colleagues from the club of MPs. So, first disabling, I stress the disabling of a full-age, business-efficient woman who does not live in a marriage, an extramarital or same-sex community, whose treatment of infertility so far, we repeat whose treatment of infertility has remained ineffective or impertinent. In view of the age of life and general health status, which is capable of parental care for the child, the right to the MPO, is considered, of course, a discriminatory procedure, that is, disabling it. Especially in view of other regulations, you are well - known, such as the possibility of a woman who is not married to adopt a child, a woman who is not married to adopt a child. In accordance with Article 134. Family law, like a man of course, can only adopt a child if it is of particular benefit to a child. Secondly, regarding the person with disabilities, the Ombudsman's proposal for disabled persons has been respected on the basis of which persons with disabilities are finally placed in a level playing field with other users of the IPO procedure, respecting the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which states in Article 25 that all signatories will ensure that a person with disabilities has the same scope, quality and standard of free and accessible and medical services and programmes provided to other persons including the area of sexual and reproductive health. I stress that the right to the MPO has a person who is not limited by a decision to deprive his business ability to make personal statements, so he is not limited to making statements concerning his personal situation that is crucial. In other words, this means that I am in part stressing the partially devoid of the business capacity of the court, of course, on the basis of the findings of the court expert, where a person's ability to decide on personal conditions among other things and the right to the IPO has already been established. Third in this amendment, a doctor who implements MPO of course colleagues and colleagues not for personal reasons but for particularly justified health reasons can allow for the right to the MPO of a woman after the age of 42. At the very least, the proposal for a large number of MPs and MPs from all political parties in the first reading relating to the movement of the woman's age limit from 42nd year of life has been respected. And lastly, following a proposal from the Committee on Gender Equality to comply with the provisions of the Law on Gender Equality, so on a proposal from the Committee, I stress that the Committee on Gender Equality and the requests of Members of the European Parliament in order to ensure the equal position of all users of the IPO procedure has been deleted from the first reading that the right to the IPO does not have persons who have changed gender. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13306	The applicant of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13307	This may be the best example of how this law is written sloppyly. If you look at Article 10(2), it says that the right to a medical insemination is also to shorten women without partners, and Article 11 shows marriage or an extramarital community must exist at the time of the entry of sex cells. Contradictively with each other, Mr. Minister. But the promoter here takes away the child's right and ability to know both biological parents and enjoys his father's love and care. Article 14 is also violated. The Constitution. You violate the dignity of fatherhood and gender equality. Well, since you gave that opportunity to women, why didn't you give that opportunity to your fathers? On the other hand, you know when you're raising kids when it's a hot stove, so when you want to teach a child something, then you say no, don't touch that stove, you burn, you send a message. When a kid says "Dad," you say no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13308	Who is the number four Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club that the government does not accept? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 5 Clubs of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party to Article 10?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13309	The amendment is not accepted for medical reasons. In order to protect women's health, namely, an excessive number of MPO procedures can undoubtedly affect women's health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13310	The applicant of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13311	I'm not happy with the answer. I would like to ask the vote because we propose here before every child's birth, which means that we are denying the possibility of a couple who got one child medically helped by fertilising HZZO to the same right as all those who receive children naturally deny them.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13312	Who is for the amendment of the Croatian Labour Club that the government does not accept? The amendment didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No 6 of the Legislative Committee to Article 12?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13313	The amendment is accepted with the correction of errors in the statement which I have already explained to the members of the board. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. This law should be added to Article 13 of that article, but paragraphs 3, 4, 5, after the word "marriage or extramarital mates".
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13314	The representative of the committee shall accept this amendment. The amendment has been accepted in a changed form. Amendment 7 of the HDZ Representatives Club to Article 12?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13315	The amendment is not accepted because the users of the IPO procedure have the right to notify and that is logical. All health professionals know this about possible forms of natural family planning, possibilities for treatment of infertility and other ways of achieving parenthood, for example by adoption, especially if both women and men are infertile Article 12. By way of derogation from that principle, users of the right to obtain all the necessary information relating to the scope of this law, i.e. an MPO which is only a process to be carried out when the treatment of infertility so far is either ineffective or impervious or in order to avoid the transfer of severe hereditary disease to the child at conception. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13316	The applicant of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13317	Unfortunately, there is no obligation in an article of this type and the applicant has failed to prescribe a doctor’s obligation that users of medically assisted fertilisation be informed of all available treatment options for infertility including those of natural family planning methods and other ways of achieving parenthood. We are talking about treatment, and we have just proposed that this be not the Medical Aided Insemination Act, but the law on ways to treat infertility. We absolutely support the wishes of all those who have problems getting children to have children and we hold absolutely that every child is a blessing and a fulfillment of family longing, however, it is clear that there are a number of ways to truly achieve such a desire except those provided for in this law. In discussions, too, it was often a false impression that every 6th pair in Croatia is infertile that this law will solve the problem of every 6th pair. It will not and should be made clear, unfortunately, to these people because there are other ways that are sometimes more effective. I don't want to talk here as some debaters about other people, etc. clouding the problem because it's clouding the problem. To be clear, infertile couples under current conditions cannot achieve the right to optimal treatment for infertility by this law and will not be able to do so with the aim of preventing discrimination against these couples. It would also be necessary to add an item guaranteeing that they too will be able to achieve the burden of the state budget, i.e. HZZO with the help of other effective, healthier, cheaper and morally unquestionable methods and procedures that exist as fertilities of the care system, NaPro treatment etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13318	Thank you very much. Are you asking for a vote? Yeah. Who is for the amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club that the government does not accept? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 8 of the HDZ Representatives Club to Article 13.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13319	The amendment is not accepted because this is not about the restriction of the obligation to conduct psychological or psychotherapy counselling in the case of homologous fertilisation because the article... paragraph 1 of the Law states that prior to the implementation of the homologous insemination procedure to spouses, i.e. outside marriage mates, I stress that this consultation may be made possible, which depends first and only on the requests of those users of the consultation procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13320	The applicant of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13321	You didn't explain why it was mandatory for heterologous fertilization. The psychological test of 10 couples going into medical insemination procedures 3 succeeds. At best four. Psychological counselling goes to prepare these 6 or 7 couples who fail in this one process to have a child, to prepare them for this painful realization that they failed that time. Now, you're also making the difference between heterologous and homologous insemination in a way that must be less pain in homologous fertilization when you lose or when you realize that it didn't work out, but in heterologous. It's not human, it's not dignified. Minister, may your desires guide and reason, I've said that several times. I really pray that your desires lead to reason. The pain is the same in both homologous and heterologous insemination if the procedure fails. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13322	Who is for the amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club that the government does not accept? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment No 9 of the HD Representatives Club to Article 14.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13323	The amendment is not accepted with the exact same explanation as I said of Amendment 7.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13324	The applicant of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13325	Please vote. Of course, our argument is the same because we have asked that the procedures of medically assisted fertilisation can only be carried out if married couples, or extramarital partners, are informed and familiar with all the possibilities of treatment for infertility, including those based on non-natural methods of family planning, other ways of achieving parenting and on the details of the process of medically assisted fertilisation. This law does not guarantee, and this law ignores the fact that 133 thousand Croatian citizens and citizens, including a significant number of healthcare professionals, including specialists, gynecology and obstetrics, are just that of their own governmental signature from the promoters and requested. It's true, it was a public debate, but it should also be made clear, nothing, absolutely nothing from that public debate has found its echo in this bill, except for the proposal of three attorneys. None of the literally hundreds of proposals entered this bill, and that is why we are asking for a vote in this article.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13326	Who's for an amendment to the HDZ Club that the government doesn't accept? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment No 10 of the HDSB Representatives Club to Article 15
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13327	It's not accepted. First, 18 years is adulthood, and on the other hand, handing in written notice only to those children who were conceived by the IPO when they took over their identity card undoubtedly violates the principle of privacy because, for example, in the Ministry of the Interior, they would then know who was and who was not conceived by the IPO. The IPO Act protects privacy in all its provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13328	The applicant of the amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13329	Thank you. So no one asked to be told to the child in the police that it was conceived and born by the IPO procedures. The purpose of this amendment is to prevent the unwanted consequences of Mr. Minister, and that is what we have written. It is true that in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of Children, the Proposer predicted that persons who were conceived, I mean donated semen cells or egg cells or donated embryos, that this applies to them, that they have the right to know. But let's not ignore one, why we suggest from 18 to 16 years old. The I.D. Act is one of the reasons why a person residing in the Republic of Croatia at the age of 16 must receive an I.D., but it doesn't matter. The results of a recent study are important. Let us not underestimate the possible dangers that may occur behind this law, and according to the recent results of the survey it is a fact, 36% of teenagers and 28% of teens in the Republic of Croatia in sexual relations already at 16 years of age. Imagine, and it's possible, that the situation could be a generational event. Let's not run from it. You are in the original bill of law, Mr. Minister, the expert commission of your Ministry of Health even suggested that a child at the age of 14. find out. So then you moved to 18. It makes sense to be 16 just for these reasons. What will happen if any such case happens, and we've had opportunities to prevent it. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13330	Who is for the amendment of the HDSSB Representatives Club that the government does not accept? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment No 11 of the HDZ Representatives Club to Article 30
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13331	It is not accepted because the postponement of Article 30(1) of the proposed law already prescribes an explicit ban on trade in sex cells, sex tissues and embryos. The concept of banning trade in sex cells, tissues and embryos fully covers the concept of imports and the concept of exports in terms of trade. On the other hand, the deletement of Article 3(3) of Article 30 cannot be accepted because the provision of Article 22(2) of the proposed law provides that the activities of the bank of sex cells, sex tissues and embryos are to be collected, processed, frozen, stored and distributed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13332	The applicant of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13333	We asked it to be said that it was forbidden to import or export sex cells, sex tissues and embryos. It is true that a ban on trade has been issued, however, the ban on trade does not necessarily include a ban on imports and exports and it is possible to manipulate and abuse with a hidden commercial purpose. In fact, it should also be made clear that there is such an explicit ban in the current law. I don't know why she was expelled. On the other hand, in the first version of the law that we discussed here, the Proposer had such an explicit ban on imports from exports in his article on 31st of the time, and then it was actually in the argument, excuse me in an explanation. However, as of April 2012, such a saying, the said ban on imports and exports has disappeared. We don't think that's good. As regards the second paragraph, which we have requested to change is the fact that the collection of sex cells is not set out in the provision of Article 5 of this proposal, and in addition, the collection of sex cells as an exception to the ban on sex trafficking is included in the provision concerning the prohibition of trade and public advertising. And in fact, it opens up huge possibilities for the abuse of trade, etc., and that should be said equally clearly for all of these are certain very mild penalties. For example, someone who breaks it will pay 7000 kuna, and we know that in some countries, there is a fine of 40 years and 7 and a half million euros in prison for the same work. We will punish it incomparably slightly, and with this we open up these possibilities. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13334	Who is for the amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club that the government does not accept? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 12. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13335	It's not accepted. The development of science, medical science enables the use of new significantly more perfect and demanding forms of medical aid in the treatment of infertility, which is of course one of the reasons why this law is passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13336	The applicant of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13337	I'll try to influence reason one more time. This is the main point of dispute between you and us, let's just say that. Look at this in 2008. Listen well this data was born from the frozen embryos of 29 children. Under the new law, 32 children were born from frozen eggs. So is that enough for you not to let a living creature die after five years like this law suggests? If that's not enough, let's move on. That's what experts say, those who know a lot, a lot more than we do. The freezing of egg cells was technologically significantly progressed by 90% survival, 75% fertilisation, 40% embryo production from a frozen egg cell and pregnancy at the end of 30 to 40%. If it can't affect you, the ministers can't influence your senses. Paul Devroey, the Centre for Reproductive Medicine from Brussels, said a respected expert, an extremely successful centre, said no longer freezes for a few years, but only egg cells. That's what he said last year or before last year. This is all the data that we have a good alternative. This is the data that speaks of the future. In five years, all countries or most European Union countries will go to the method of freezing egg cells. Let me rephrase that, 2008. 29 children were born from defrosted embryos and 32 of these last 2010 from frozen egg cells. [[/Intruder Stazic: Time is up. You already said that. Well, you already said that.]] Don't let living things die.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13338	Representative Milinovic, timed out 14 seconds ago. I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13339	Please vote. Don't be so long for a second.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13340	Please, who's in favour of an amendment to the HDZ Representatives' Club that the government doesn't accept? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 13. The HDSSB representative's club on Article 51?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13341	It is not accepted because it does not comply with the decision to set up the National Bioethical Commission for Medicine or comply with the Rules of Procedure. Namely, the recommendations, opinions and guidelines for amending the applicable rules shall be addressed to the professional law holder, of course. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13342	The applicant of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13343	So, April 12, 2001, I'm talking about article 51. So, the one who regulates the affairs of the National Commission. But I would like to remind you that, on 12 April 2001, the Government of the Republic of Croatia made a decision on the establishment of a National Bioethical Commission for Medicine, which is a higher level of national committee compared to the National Commission for Medical Aided Insemination, and that's all right. However, in the first paragraph, I think it is the eighth indent, it is said that the National Commission for Medical Aided Insemination will make recommendations on amendments to this law. We propose that, given that there is also a National Commission of Higher Levels, which among other things has the task of taking care of this, the National Commission for Medical Aided Insemination makes recommendations to this, therefore to this higher level, that the National Commission, which should then ultimately take its views. And there's no reason objective not to do it, or then we don't need that National Commission. So I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13344	Who is for the amendment of the HDSSB Representatives Club that the government does not accept? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment number 14. HDZ Representatives' Club on Articles 54 and 55?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13345	It is not accepted because cooperation with professional bodies is necessary in order to further develop this area, not only this area, but also share experience with other Member States of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13346	The applicant of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13347	We asked for the title of co-operation with the professional bodies of the European Union to be removed because it is completely incorrect. He's standing over something he doesn't even talk about. The aim is likely to create an impression that this will bring something into line with the requirements of the European Union, the European Commission, which is not the case at all because it is not the case. The European Union is not at all in the laws of the national states on this and, unlike the obligation to submit the Annual Report on the reported serious, harmful events and serious adverse reactions prescribed in this law and which is related to the Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council, there is no such obligation at all or is foreseen by any document of the European Commission or of the European Council. In addition, what is under that title, which I repeat is completely pointless in this place, is mentioned one society, a professional society that has no status as an EU expert body at all, as this title could suggest before the article, and therefore we do not see the meaning of it at all because it, with EU legislation and cooperation with the EU, has absolutely nothing to do with the European Commission, but clearly serves as a single flossula that this law is a measure of response to some EU requirements that it is not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13348	Who is for the amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club that the government does not accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment No. 15. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff of the Commission
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13349	It is not accepted because the participation of representatives of the National Bioethical Commission for Medicine in the supervision of the application of the law is not in line with the provisions of the Health Protection Act, on the one hand, and on the other hand with the jurisdiction of the National Bioethical Commission for Medicine, which is established by the decision establishing the same. The number of controls prescribed by Directive 2004/23. The European Parliament and the Council of 31 March of the same year on the determination of quality and safety standards for the procurement, testing and processing and storage and storage of tissue and cells of human origin are therefore not accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13350	Amendment holder?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13351	In order to make it clearer to the Croatian public what this is about, so Article 55, which we propose, speaks about the implementation of supervision of this law. And now look at what's controversial, there's a disputed item 2 and item 3. Article 2 in the draft law states that to carry out the supervision of this article, the Minister shall appoint at least 7 teams to which the representatives of the Ministry's inspection shall also be accompanied by a representative of the profession – gynaecology, obstetrics, etc. And paragraph 3 says that a professional representative referred to in paragraph 2 of this article is appointed by the minister from the list proposed by the Croatian Society for Gynaecological Endocrinology and Human Reproduction of the Croatian Medical Assembly. For us, paragraph 2 and paragraph 3 are disputed from possible abuses that can happen in reality because, given the sensitivity of the issues of supervision of the application of this law, one is in fact one of the key mechanisms of preventing and sanctioning abuse, that is the essence of this amendment. It is completely inappropriate for us to prescribe the participation of persons by law, take good care of the teams, which are selected on a proposal from a professional society that is not impartial and they work in certain hospitals and thus opens up an objective possibility of prior notification to the healthcare institution in question on the conduct of supervision. And it's much more appropriate for us to be a representative, here's the National Bioethical Commission, you say it's not prescribed by their rules of procedure. Let's add, change the rules of procedure, change the provisions and give it to them in their tasks, and there's no problem. Or let's find a third solution, it doesn't have to be this either, but the worst solution is to be a representative of some medical facility because if you go to his hospital in surveillance, allow me to be very inclined to believe that this hospital will be reported in time. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13352	Who is for the amendment of the HDSSB Representatives Club that the government does not accept? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 16. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13353	This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13354	The board withdraws the amendment or what? He's withdrawing the amendment. The amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment No. 17. SDP counseling club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13355	It is accepted, of course, with the correction of the obvious nomotechnical word, so the words on the day of entry are corrected in words until the day of entry into force. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13356	A representative of the club accepts this. The amendment has been accepted in changed form. Amendment No. 18. The Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party shall work on Article 62.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13357	The amendment shall not be accepted for a reason, as the preceding amendment 17 is adopted, which shall be amended in Article 62(2).
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13358	Amendment holder?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13359	You've accepted, in fact. It's the same thing, at least we agree on something with the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13360	The amendment has been consummated and this amendment has been withdrawn. And finally Amendment 19. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff of the Commission
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13361	It is not accepted because of legal uncertainty and uncertainty, such a final provision does not meet the criteria of legal, i.e. the standard of nomotechnical regulation of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13362	Amendment holder?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13363	Dear Mr. Minister, here's the 19th Amendment, lastly, we knew very well that this was not working, but once again we wanted to appeal to this amendment as another mechanism for this bill to be delayed. Because why did we tell you to keep it until the state register is established? He's got his own, and then I'd say something special about it. Look, the establishment of a state registry has long been discussed, one of the key safeguards in order to prevent the manipulation of possible abuses and possible violations of laws. You have also stated in the reasons of the final draft law that such registers have been established in 21 EU Member States. It was already under the Law on Medical Insemination, which is currently in force, that the establishment of a state registry was envisaged, but unfortunately it was not made, and it has been over the years. You, Mr. Minister, in your first reading, have announced that you have put a provision there that within three months you will do it, now you are extending it by six months, to six months. It's a sign to us that he's justifiably afraid you won't make it. I don't doubt that you're going to want it but that you won't be able to arrange something that hasn't been arranged for years. But in order to prevent possible abuse, we, by putting this amendment into effect, wanted to say, let's not pass this law today, let's at least go to third reading and discuss it one more time. I'm looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13364	Thank you. Who is for the amendment of the HDSSB Representatives Club that the government does not accept? The amendment didn't get the required majority. I'm closing the debate. I thank the minister. We're moving on to a statement on the bill. In accordance with Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament for Law-Making requires most of the votes of all MPs, 76 votes. On the basis of a proposal from the HDSSB's Club of Representatives and the HDZ Representatives' Club on the final proposal for a law, we will hold a roll-out vote. The names of the vote shall be taken by standing up and pronouncing each appointed representative for or against the proposal, or abstention. When the call is completed, those MPs for whom the list of MPs has not been reported to have voted are called again. I'd like the deputy secretary and secretary of the plenary session to call the MPs and count the votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13365	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović-za, Ante Babić-anti, Vedran Babić-za, Branko Bačić-anti-za, Lidija Bagarić-za, Damir Bajs, Jakša Balojević-sustained, Martina Banić-za, Petar Baranović-za, Milorad Bošinić-za, Nevenka Bečić-za, Josip Benčić-za, Davor Bernardić-za, Goran Beus Richembergh-za, Vladimir Bilek-za, Boris Blažević, Valter Bljeunčić, Josip Borzan-za, Dinko Božnik-antit, Davor Bozinović-protiv, Miljana Brkić-protiv, Dinko Burić-protiv, Ljiljana Božović-zatović, Igor Čeko Božan-protiv, Petar Čoč-protivić-protiv, Tož-Zavitiv-Zavitiv, Mr. Mladen Marelić-za, Natalija Martinčević-za, Damir Matljen, Frano Matušić-anti, Jasen Mesić-anti, Zvonko Milas-prot, Stjepan Milinković-prot, Darko Milinović-prot, Domagoj Ivan Milošević-za, Željko Mirković-za, Davorin Mlakar, Mario Moharić-za, Daniel Mondekar-za, Melita Mulić-za, Mladen Novak-za, Drazen Posavac-za, Ivana Posavec-za, Tonino Picula-za, Ivano Radin-za, Andrej Plenković-za, Jozljenković, Žalžarž-Zajaržanž-Ziprž-Ziprž-Ziprživ, Ivan Posač-Zavi, Ivan Posavac-Zavec-Zavec-Zavec-Zavec-Zavec-Zavec-Zavec-Za, Milan-Zavec-Zavec-Za, Milan-Zavec-Zavec-Zavec-Zak-Za, Tonić-Zaldić-Zak-Zak-Zalin-Zaldić-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-Zak-
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13366	I ask you now to re-call those who have not been reported voting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13367	Damir Bajs, Boris Blažeković, Valter Bjeljunčić-za, Ivan Grubišić, Tomislav Ivić, Damir Kajin, Tomislav Karamarko, Željko Kerum, Zlatko Komadina-za, Franjo Lucić, Dujomir Marasović, Davorin Mlakar, Đurđica Sumrak, Boris Šprem, Ruža Tomašić, Zlatko Tušak, Branko Vukelić and that is it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-11-0.u13368	Thank you very much. Here's while the secretary of the plenary session counts the votes of one notice. The Interparliamentary Co-operation Committee is convened after voting in the Chamber of Ivan Mažuranić in order to confirm the appointment of the Head of Interparliamentary Friendship Groups of the Croatian Parliament. Here's the result of the vote. I find that most 88 votes in favour, 45 against and 2 abstentions have been passed by the Law on Medical Aided Insemination in the text as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted. My colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work at the 4th session. We will now discuss - Final bill on amendments to the Law on Education and Education in primary and secondary schools, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 127. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was held: the Committee on Law, the Committee on Education, Science and Culture and the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. You received the reports at the session. I ask, does the proposal's representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Minister of Science, Education and Sports Mr Zeljko Jovanovic. Here you go.
