ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6790	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Here's an extraordinary honor for me to be here for the first time as a minister to defend a law and in some way feel a little nostalgia, but that doesn't mean, of course, that I want something coprat, that I want to come back quickly so that here. Here I will present to you the amendments, i.e. the proposal for a law to encourage the development of a small economy with a final draft of the law. Small and medium-sized economies, small and medium-sized enterprises in Croatia account for 99.5% of the total economy. The share of small entities and medium-sized entities account for over 50% of Croatian GDP, have over 64% of employees and in some ways we can say that the Croatian economy is a micro-economic structure, i.e. a small economy with companies that have less income than 10 million, which accounts for 80% of all companies in the Republic of Croatia. The more this law is one of me, I would say the most important, important so that we can have as much a proactive policy as possible towards small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, so that they can in some way create synergies between both states and entrepreneurs in the best result for the economy and GDP in Croatia. One of the most important tasks of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts in achieving the objectives of creating a competitive entrepreneurship is to ensure favourable funding and guarantees and, under this law, we are doing the most in the process. Subsidisation of interest which also Croatia and Croatian agencies and the Croatian programme to encourage a small economy provides exactly what Croatian entrepreneurs need. Analysing the results of the implementation of the investment incentive system in the Republic of Croatia through the Investment Encouragement Act, we can see that almost 80% of the investment projects achieved are implemented by small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, of which 30% of investment projects represent direct foreign investment. Croatia must ensure stability and security of investments in order for investors to know, for example, what they can expect in the tax policy for the next 10 years and in this sense after the irrational suspension of the Export and Investment Promotion Agency during 2010, means when Croatia stepped deeply in the recession, when foreign investments fell from over 4 billion euros to 2009. 400 million euros, which means 10 times, we decided to abolish the 2010 Agency for the Promotion of Exports and Investments. And of course, we think that there is also a need to strengthen the activity of attracting foreign investment through the institutionalization of this job where, in this case, when it comes to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, we will extend power to the Croatian retail agency where it will certainly play one of the key roles in promoting the investment climate in Croatia in the future. So the agency, which will, with its tasks so far, which are quality guarantees, are the implementation of the work of the programme to encourage entrepreneurship in Croatia will have one part of the co-ordinated role in attracting investment and conducting investments in Croatia and Croatia's counties. Of course, HAMAG Invest must, of course by law, also change the agency's name proposal to make that part of the investment business important, it must be one of the first contacts to potential investors when they come to Croatia, when it comes to small and medium-sized investments. Of course, possible support does not stop in terms of funding and guarantees and cooperation with local units and all stakeholders necessary for the realisation of investments. In addition, this law categorises a micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneur, i.e. this changes compared to the previous draft law and aligns with the European Commission's recommendation that micro-entrepreneurs are less than 10 workers, and business income or total assets are less than 2 million euros, meaning when it comes to income of an asset also 2 million euros. Small entrepreneurs, meaning category above, are companies with less than 50 employees, 10m euros in revenue or a total asset of less than 10m euros. It is also the medium-sized entrepreneurs who have less than 250 employees and the income of 50m euros or the activity of 43m euros, equal to or less. Thus, since we are harmonising the law with EU standards, this will further increase the number of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia, given that the criteria so far have been somewhat lower, and thus we will allow these entrepreneurs to use the funds provided for in the plan for fostering entrepreneurship and craftsmanship in the Republic of Croatia called Entrepreneurship Impulse, which is currently being applied. The tenders have just come out, tomorrow the last 8, means 24 programmes that will in some way provide support worth 376 million kuna and where we expect that money to be invested in our economy and that it will somehow be returned to the Croatian budget for the next three years. So we need to change the concept of support that we have quite often understood as something that can only be shared, and what effects were not too much question after the programmes were done and in some ways we need to be aware that every kuna invested from the Croatian budget must give some effect, and these kunas that I have said here, 376 million kuna will return to the Croatian budget in the next three years. So after we have defined the size of the companies we also define the size of the projects in accordance with European standards and define investment projects in three levels. One is a microinvestment project worth up to 2m euros, a small investment project of up to 10m euros, a medium investment project of up to 50m euros. What is beyond this is major investment projects and it is important that we also have compliance with EU rules. What I particularly want to mention is we are just to encourage foreign investments in Croatia that are at a really low level and the trend is not positive compared to previous years, we have to turn it around, the idea is that we have an agency that will have a serious place to help businesses in small, medium and micro-projects, and these are not insignificant projects if we talk to up to 50 million euros in Croatia, which will help in these investments and in realising these investments. Accordingly, the Croatian Small Economy Agency, which I hope from Friday will be called HAMAG INVEST will be one of the most important stakeholders in a project called "One Stop Service Center" where we are in the process of signing contracts with all counties in the Republic of Croatia, there are 5.6 left where we will include all stakeholders, public enterprises, institutions, cities, municipalities in making investments as soon as possible. The goal is to get back to me I'd say the data from 2008. - 4 billion euros in foreign investment. Of course, it is not possible to do so immediately, but I believe that in 2014 we will again come to this level of foreign investment in Croatia that is necessary to boost economic growth, in order to ensure that I would say in Croatia employment, exiting from a recession that unfortunately is in action today. So in 2014, we have to make a prerequisite to have foreign investments of more than 4 billion euros. Of course, this will also help Croatia's EU entry and the stabilisation of the credit rating that we have achieved this year, and I believe that in the future it will also be a better situation for investors because things are changing. It is also seen that Linić returned from America where there was 5 times more interest in the registration of bonds than we offered to finance Croatian public debt. One more thing I want to point out here, and this is about the business where we see the role of HAMAG INVEST from next week, which is very important, and these are guarantees that this agency will give to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in Croatia. The guarantees that will be adopted by the government on Friday are something that will be much more useful to entrepreneurs, so far we have had an agency that is not banks, financiers and financial institutions, and sometimes the HBOR did not take it too seriously. We have created a new guarantee programme that will be applied in cooperation with business banks, with HBOR, which, by the way, has offered the most favourable loans, the most favourable sources of funding for Croatian entrepreneurs. And in this year's investment interest rates are from 1% to 3%, payouts at a start of 4.5 years is up to 17 years old, so there is no better credit programme than it will now offer HBOR, but it is necessary to have quality guarantees and therefore, on Friday, HAMAG will be given support to the government to adopt a new guarantee programme and to increase the Croatian Small Economy Guarantee Fund from 1 to 2 billion kuna. It is very important to say that this will make it possible, given that the guarantees are up to 50% of the funding sources that this year will allow for additional guarantees for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in investment projects worth around 2 billion kuna. This is what I would say one step, and I am convinced that by amending this law, that by supplementing myself I would also say that the function that the Croatian Agency for a small economy will work in the future that we will clearly divide what these are small, medium and large entrepreneurs, small, medium and large projects contribute to the efficiency of the work of both the Ministry and institutions in the Republic of Croatia, but what is important we will expand and the existing number of users to an even greater extent since in Croatia more than 99.5% of the companies will be small or medium size. The Croatian economy is such, we do not have large corporations but I believe that in the future this segment of entrepreneurship of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs can extract Croatia from the economic crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6791	Thank you, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of HDZ Representatives and the Honorable Representative Đuro Popiac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6792	Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister, the Croatian Small Economy Agency is the government's executive agency in charge of encouraging a small economy. The Agency's mission is to develop the economy of the Republic of Croatia by designing quality programmes, raising awareness of the importance of entrepreneurship and social responsibility and by developing a knowledge economy through the knowledge centres, seeking to develop the whole economy evenly. It also continuously participates in the creation of a favourable entrepreneurial atmosphere and in promoting the development of entrepreneurship. The vision of the agency we have achieved is to be the leading development agency that will encourage its programmes to develop small entrepreneurship in the Republic of Croatia and be a strong support for entrepreneurs in creating business success. Small and medium-sized economies are one of the most important drivers of overall economic development. It is the most dynamic part of the economic system of the Republic of Croatia as well as numerous economic and statistical indicators. Small-scale operators account for over 96% of the total number of economic operators, and so is the EU image of economies. The small economy promotes private ownership and entrepreneurial capacity, is adaptable to market change, generates employment, helps diversify economic activities, contributes to increasing export production and thus makes the most dynamic part of the economic system of the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore also of exceptional economic importance to continuously build competitive conditions and environments for a strong growth of entrepreneurship as a generator of the Croatian economy. HAMAG as a guarantee agency which was initially also played an active role in implementing operational programmes, development and incentives of small and medium-sized enterprises. HAMAG contributes to the development of the economy of the Republic of Croatia by encouraging the development of entrepreneurship through guarantees for business loans, grants by education and development of a network of consultants for a small economy. By improving the investment climate, faster investment development also provides support for the development of entrepreneurship in Croatia. HAMAG encourages small and medium-sized entrepreneurship through support processes for beginners in the realization of entrepreneurial ideas, support for production activities that create a new value and make it easier to make resources for the development of activities available. Through state grants projects, investment by small and medium-sized enterprises is co-financed, entrepreneurship of target groups and development of crafts and cooperatives is encouraged while funding activities from the project of grants contribute to competitiveness and the development of entrepreneurship in Croatia. In addition, what we did sought to create an organised market for consulting services, precisely aimed at small and medium enterprises and through the process of certification of consultants, sought to ensure excellence in providing services to a small entrepreneur. The development of entrepreneurship infrastructure and... economic developments of the Republic of Croatia was the primary goal of the Croatian small economy agency as well as of all of us. During the period from 2008 to 2012, HAMAG showed remarkable results despite the economic crisis period. This can also be seen in all of the above activities carried out by the Agency. So, guarantees. In the past 4 years, HAMAG has issued a total of 527 guarantees of 665 million kuna, allowing approximately 2.5 billion kuna investment in entrepreneurial projects in years of crisis. By also observing the entire period of the draft agency to date, HAMAG had only about 3.3% so-called. bad or non-performing placements, which is an extremely good result in relation to the entire banking environment, and we know that it is an extremely risky segment of the economy. The overall guarantee potential of HAMAG was one billion kuna, which remained at least at the end of 2011. About 300 million kuna available for the issue of guarantees. In 2010, we introduced guarantee programmes to finance microcredits to help the largest segment of micro-entrepreneurs and programmes for the financing of female entrepreneurship. As part of the operational plan for the promotion of the small and medium-sized economy, HAMAG authorised more than 11,000 grants of more than 318 million kuna over the observed period, only one part of the operational plan that operated and implemented HAMAG. In addition, with the collection of documentation, data processing and the granting of support to the Agency’s staff, over 80,000 tips were provided to entrepreneurs either by telephone or by direct means. With the development of entrepreneurship infrastructure, therefore regional development agencies of the HAMAG entrepreneurship centres have also developed a network of certified small-economic consultants whose number has risen to about a hundred. It is important to note that the Agency has co-financed the services of certified consultants in the amount of 50% via vouchers and has paid about 3 million kunas for the past period. Our vision of the development of HAMAG was also followed by guidelines of strategic documents carried out by our government, and they were also in line with the vision of the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship in the EU. This means that, in any event, HAMAG must also play a significant role in ensuring a number of instruments to encourage the development of this segment of the economy in the future. The role of agencies in the future is certainly to be seen in the coordination of all government institutions for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and cooperation with entrepreneurship associations in order to ensure flexibility in business, timely adaptability to market conditions and necessary independence in business as well as permanent support of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. These changes I had to say, therefore, what we did, what HAMAG itself did in the past period, only for a clear reason to show, although they are representatives of the Government, ministers, especially the first vice president, has worked hard to say that the whole world and life is just beginning with him, his appearance or their appearance in this Croatian sky. So that's just not true. What's the greatest danger is what's happening right now that everything together doesn't spoil what we've been doing, and that seems systematic. These amendments and additions to the law actually do neither harm nor benefit. So we have a clear urge to introduce Euros instead of kunas which stood as a criterion for entering the category of small, medium or micro-entrepreneurs now, the name "HAMAG Invest" itself is changing signically and added to the activity of some assuming future investment activity. We understand that the Minister of Small and Medium Entrepreneurship also needs to form his own agency, because here's the first vice president actually spreads his influence on almost everything that moves, which flies or swims in Croatian spaces, so obviously this idea of adding this investment activity to HAMAG is just a wish that this minister also has his own agency to deal with some investments in some economy. You can form an agency as much as you want, you can generate administration in all directions but everything you've done with tax reform so-called. By burdening the economy and the continuing burdens, by increasing the cost of the administration you definitely have nothing to compensate for. So the interest of entrepreneurs, the interest of investors only exists if there are friends in some economic environment, not an administration that will intertwine and already intertwine in itself. We see and know that there are regional development agencies. You form something else parallel, I think it's here as it was called OSSC, so it's the English center shortcut or I don't know what that is. So besides what already exists you form in the regional self-government yet parallel systems of administration that should be made by investors. So it's not true that so far the operational programme for the development of medium and small entrepreneurship has been given into nothing. Anyone who did this is known to have only been encouraged by those programmes that were positive in those companies that had positive business results, which they had hired, which had created new jobs, which they had exported and created new values. Anyone who has seen today how you have opened a tender and what entrepreneurs have to do for 360 million kunas which is less than ever in the budget secured for the development of medium and small entrepreneurship, I'm afraid you won't be using it because because you've complicated so much, you've been selecting the whole procedure that it's hard to believe that a serious number of entrepreneurs will be able to make use of it at all. It is therefore useful to raise the Guarantee Fund to 2 billion kuna, but the question is, where are these entrepreneurs who should go through all the procedures and through your administrative barriers that you are newly setting, but of course there are still banking institutions which are essentially the fundamental reason why entrepreneurs respond poorly to taking credit for new business initiatives. And I repeat, why and when you introduce new taxes, when you add new bureaucratic burdens, when you take back the profits, you tax something that's scandalous, which happened 12 years or 10 years ago. In such an environment and in such an entrepreneurial environment no new bureaucracy, administration or agency will get a positive result. I repeat, we understand the wish and the Minister for Small Business to have his own investment agency because he wants to take one part of that space because some other ministers take it much bigger, but the law does neither benefit nor harm, and therefore there is really no reason for the HDZ club to support this law. So we won't support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6793	Thank you, dear fellow Drinker. Mr. Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6794	Thank you very much. Here's what I felt was the need to report after my fellow drinkers were exposed. First a few things I have to fix, it's just numbers. He says that we have burdened the economy, but if the burden is 3 billion kuna tax charge to Croatian companies, I don't know what to call discharge. We've scattered the economy, ladies and gentlemen, in three billion kunas at one year's level. And that's not the end, we'll keep going that way for the next years. It would have been good if HDZ had started that way in 2008 when we entered the recession. Unfortunately, nothing happened, nothing happened, we waited and we welcomed three years of recession, year after year, 2009, 2010, 2011. If something had been done, if there had been any suggestions, they probably wouldn't have felt so much of the crisis. And it's weird that you don't get support there. For the first time in 20 years of Croatian budgets, we have a budget that is cost-cutting and economic discharge for 3 billion kunas. It's about unloading. Secondly, around the entrepreneurial impulse and whether people will answer or not. Look, your grade is I don't know what it's based on, but in these two weeks we've received hundreds of applications. I'm sure there'll be a dozen times more applications than we'll be able to allocate. So much for the interest of Croatian entrepreneurs for the programmes that have been published and which continue for the next two, three weeks, and I call on all interested Croatian entrepreneurs to report and make use of the funds we have allocated to them in order to have the opportunity to improve their business in the next period. Third, around HAMG and Hamag's work so far, and the number of guarantees and the number of investments they followed. Here I will say one announcement, in this year after the adoption of the new guarantee programme we will have more guarantees in a year than you have said that the Croatian Small Economy Agency has had in the last 4 years. So we'll have more in the next year than you've complimented the Agency for a small economy back four years. So now you re-evaluate whether it's progress, whether it's better work or worse. Either the Guarantee Programmes Agency is here not to issue guarantees or to issue guarantees. If I say that in a year we'll have four times as many as you've had in the last year or as much as you've had in the last four years, then I think it's logical and easy to figure out whether the agency will have a better guarantee program and whether it will work better for the next year. As to whether we need an Investment Agency and whether we should have an agency that will cover small and medium-sized investments, I have said enough in the introduction. Mr. Drinker, 2008. 4.2 billion euros in investment, 2009 400m euros, in 2011, we have not made it to over billions of euros and 200 in general investments in Croatia, including foreign and domestic. A billion and 200 million euros in 2011. Four times less than just foreign 2008 So if it's a success, if you're satisfied with it then you'll trust this government to be much simpler to make a result than I thought. If your success was four times less investment. And I am convinced that all of this we are doing precisely to start Croatia and this year we will have a double number of investments in Croatia than it was in 2011, no matter what the results of these discharges, everything we do will only actually be seen in 2013 when we expect significant Croatian economic growth in Croatia. Now, one more thing, you said we were coming up with some new bodies, etc. I'm surprised that I thought I'd commend you as minister that you've just begun this program that you've now criticized that I'm introducing him. I don't know if you know this, but your ministry signed off on a dozen counties just what I'm finishing up right now. I don't know if you knew that information, but I'm surprised that as Minister of Economy, you weren't even aware of what was going on in your ministry. So this one stop service center started working last year when you were the minister. So I'm surprised you don't support your own project that I'm finishing and I think it's good and I wanted to commend you, but I see that you're criticizing yourself. So it kind of surprised me. As far as funding is concerned, the reason why the budget is slightly less, not least than the second highest budget of the so far-fought economy in relation to the previous all who have been so far. So only last year was planned more, but it wasn't realized anymore because in one part of the programme you didn't use the funds that were planned, and these are the funds of economic cooperation where we only had two projects and the rest was not used from the planned 200 million kunas left untapped 150 million kunas. So these funds will again be the largest funds allocated from the Croatian budget compared to ever. So you've also given some incorrect information here, and I'm afraid I'm going to have to deny you. I wish it wasn't because it would mean we had more projects, because it would mean that we had some employment and investments in the last year, which unfortunately we didn't have. This year we're going to use all the funds and the ones that weren't used last year, we're going to make for the first time so far, I wish I'd come to the ministry and I've seen the analysis of the effects of these incentives in recent years were incentivizing a small economy. But nothing, I only saw how much support we shared. I wish we'd seen an analysis of so many jobs, so many investments were encouraged, we invested in so many zones that they gave back some effect, but nothing. All I got was information on how much money was distributed. Efficacy has never been measured. The results were never measured. That's what we're gonna change. Every kuna we invest will have a clear result next year. It may sometimes be harder to write what you expect, how much you think it will affect the Croatian economy, but we want to stand behind our announcements and our results that we believe we will achieve next year and we are doing a special evaluation program for all the funds that we will invest because we are responsible for Croatian citizens for the funds given from the budget. Not only in my ministry, but also in other ministries. And in the end, another thing to just show the picture of how it managed that money is that we supported over 300 entrepreneurial zones in Croatia in the past period, and in more than half of these zones there is not one project nor is anything going on there. Just because some chief, I'm not going to say now which parties I don't want to go in that direction, but it's indicative that we're just so that some commissioner would say I have a zone, regardless of whether there's another five-mile radius in other municipalities, whether or not there's any interest in these zones to invest something inside, we were giving money. Over 300 assisted zones, over half of these zones have no single project. Now, tell me, what is the effect of these funds that have been shared over the past few years when we talk about local entrepreneurship infrastructure? No way! Because if there's no project in the zone, then the effect is nothing. The only effect was that Croatian taxpayers were paying for something they shouldn't have paid just for someone to brag about I have a zone. That way we don't share any more funds. So we will no longer share the funds, all that is invested must have a clear result on the Croatian economy that has taken the first time in a good direction with tax redundancy, without us talking about ourselves, that this is not the opposition in this House that investors who believe in what this government is doing and by retaining credit ratings and interest in me would say financing the public debt of Croatia 5 times more interest than was asked to finance the bonds. And that's what people who will show you this year will be twice as much investment as it was in 2011. And I see it's 10 seconds till the end, and I'm going to thank you and I believe there's going to be a chance for more discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6795	Thank you, Minister. We have four corrections to an incorrect quote. First respected representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6796	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Honorable minister said incorrectly that our HDZ government has been doing absolutely nothing for the past three years, that nothing has happened as the minister said. Mr. Minister, as an opposition representative, you said there were too many agencies in Croatia when we set them up. You said it didn't serve anything. And you're proposing here except for this incentive and the establishment of a new agency. So far, it's just a killer story. And 100 days of your government showed exactly the opposite. If reducing costs and expenditure is the cost of increasing prices and dropping the standard of living of citizens, if the average family of 4-members needs 10 thousand kunas to survive the month, and you are raising the price of fuel, electricity price, VAT to 25%, it's just killing moves, and your story is a murderous story that has no arguments because you really remember only a year ago what you said in the Croatian Parliament when it was the topic and the economy and the topic and what you're talking about today is quite ten years ago. So I think we should do a little bit if you have time, and I believe you do, take the phonograms of your speeches in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6797	... The government doesn't raise the price of fuel, you know it yourself. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] The second correction to the incorrect quote is the Honorable Vice-President of the House of Mrs. Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6798	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, since you're commenting on the agents' corrections to an incorrect quote, then allow me to begin with. The government doesn't regulate, but it can affect as well as the government I led. But about correcting Mr. Secretary's incorrect allegations that nothing was done. I can speak especially of 2.5 years, it seemed quite so that you signed, i.e. your Government, for example, a large project of the Zagreb Airport which we have built and brought to an end and I am proud of it. It's sad that your deputy minister didn't even know about the press, but also in the act of signing, explain what it really was about, what the role of the concessionaires, etc., etc. It's been working very hard on the Brijuni Riviera project, as you know, we signed it with Mr. Mayor Jakovcic. It's done, and it's a good project, we left the Coopers behind, we built in spite of the road crisis. You mentioned the amount of a billion and 200 million euros last year, you said it was nothing. I remind you that the proposal presented by the first Deputy Prime Minister is approximately 9 million kuna smaller than it was last year. So, of course, the question is why are you criticizing something that you're promoting yourself. And finally, the VAT increase by 2% is how small entrepreneurs actually say 8.5% for them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6799	Thank you. Third correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6800	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I noticed this inaccuracy allegation that nothing was done, but I also noticed that Mr. Minister said that entrepreneurial zones only worked so that some chief could say that he had an entrepreneurial zone and he didn't serve anything. That's not true. I, from my county, have witnessed very successful entrepreneurial areas, and it really makes us happy. It's nice to hear you talk with optimism and talk about progress, and we see progress in increasing VAT fuel prices and of course progress in the number of unemployed. Not to mention what's going on with agriculture. Well, the OPGs are also in some way entrepreneurs because every day we testify that a significant number of them are going down because of that kind of entrepreneurial climate of yours and your relationship to these OPGs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6801	Thank you. And the final correction of the incorrect allegations by the Đuro Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6802	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary. It is incorrect that the effects of support and encouragement were not known. Although you cover about 20% of your ministry's jurisdiction of what I did in my ministry, it seems to me that you didn't read all the documentation you found because then you would see that more than 40,000 jobs were opened in entrepreneurship areas. And it's a scandalous thing to even say that some local self-government leader has no right and in fact a commitment to meet the preconditions for the development of entrepreneurship in his unit. So, in addition to all the things you said that it was the former ministry that worked, the truth is, of course, you wouldn't have anything to do today. It's good to continue all the projects we started. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6803	We're continuing to discuss clubs. The HNS club's position will be presented by distinguished representative Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6804	President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So here to begin perhaps on the excellent investment climate left by the government, I think it is enough to say that Croatia is currently located on the very bottom of the competitiveness scale of all countries in a closer and wider environment, as well as the strong warnings of the EU Commission Delegation in Croatia, which has repeatedly issued recommendations and warnings that necessary and urgent measures should be taken on this issue. The aim of this law is primarily to provide a stable regulatory institutional framework to investors, to encourage an increase in entrepreneurial investment activities, and of course to significantly increase investment projects for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Already today, several times it has been said that small and medium-sized entrepreneurs actually account for as much as 99% of the total economic operators in Croatia, almost 80% of the investment projects achieved were realised precisely by small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and even 30% of them were foreign investments or investments in companies that are partly or entirely foreign. All of the above talks sufficiently about the need to take additional measures to create a precondition for its strong momentum for this extremely significant segment of the Croatian economy, and it is precisely in this direction that amendments and additions to this law are going on. Here, it is important to say that it is in line with the EU Commission's recommendations with the same definition of the EU Commission, the EU Investment Bank and the EU Investment Fund, of course, with a view to improving the effectiveness of targeted medium and small entrepreneurship policies, better exploiting support mechanisms specifically designed for small and medium-sized enterprises through EU programmes and reducing distortions of competition. This is in fact a alignment with the objectives set by the EU long ago, which has clearly recognised that entrepreneurship is the generator of new jobs, investment and innovation. When amending and supplementing this law, it is particularly important to highlight the expansion of the Agency's competence for small entrepreneurship into the area of promotion and attracting investments, hence HAMAG becomes HAMAG Invest, and this has been discussed at the beginning of the debate that we consider it extremely important since Croatia is far below where it should be in this respect. We consider here an exceptional position in the jurisdiction of HAMAG and this part of the attraction of investments very important because it opens up space and creates preconditions for exactly what Croatia needs right now, and these are new investment projects, and in particular investment projects in the sectors of added value-added export orientations that should enable job creation and even regional development of Croatia. It is very important to connect the agency with the development agencies of the county, regional, so units of local administration and self-government and to give some of them the necessary assistance and support in order to achieve so much competition in the competition process for foreign investment projects in quality work and good coordination. There are, of course, other examples, one of them is the Varazdin County, which was last year declared the most competitive county in Croatia so that there is room for cooperation and exchange of experiences between HAMAG and regional units in both directions. The co-ordinated co-operation of HAMG with local administration and self-government development agencies should also enable better use of EU funds. All of these activities of the Agency, especially those aimed at investment, need to create an economic system that will be competitive, EU economic systems and prepare the Croatian economy for the fact that we become part of a very large and competitive EU market from 1.7.2013. What is the current role of the agency is that there is certainly room for progress and this has already been the case today is the exploitation of its role as a Guarantee Agency to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who do not have sufficient credit potential for business banks. Given the well-known fact that over 95% of foreign banks are owned, that their credit criteria are quite rigid, this makes it impossible for a large number of shareholders to secure financial resources for improving their business, for new investments, new projects, etc. Some county agencies have made a major step here and through guarantee funds have enabled entrepreneurs and businessmen to bridge the gap between business banks' demands and their insurance opportunities and I believe that HAMAG has a large space for progress in any case and therefore we welcome today's report by the minister that this fund will increase. And as the third major fundamental amendment to this law, determining the parameters of the categorization of micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. This is where the HNS Club put forward a proposal on the Committee on Economic Affairs regarding amendments to the criteria defined by the entities entering the category of small economy. The proposed criteria would include entities with up to 50m euros in kuna income equivalent, up to 43m long-term assets and up to 250 employees. What we consider controversial here is precisely this category of up to 250 employees, which we recognize as a major problem here, since a large number of companies have far less income than 50 million from the processing industry, has far less long-term assets than 43 million euros, and has over 250 employees. And by doing so, we are actually putting ourselves in a position to sort of punish companies that have a large number of employees and should certainly go in the direction that these three criteria meet two to achieve incentives and that one of them can therefore be, and the company potentially has a larger number of 250 employees. There are therefore the biggest problems of the company... processing activities, especially from Varazdinska and Međimurje County, and we believe that this change would be necessary. [[You don't understand.]] Therefore, all of the above if it was realised that it was planned and imagined it would be strong support to the economy, strong support for the growth of gross social product and the HNS club will support the proposal to amend and supplement this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6805	Thank you very much. I call on the now respected representative Igor Radjenovic to introduce us to the position of the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6806	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's a lot of things that have been said, although only two debates have been held along with the opening one. There have been a lot of corrections to the incorrect allegations that I think are best proven that this initiative on the abolition of this institute is going in the right direction, and also one sentence let me look back at those corrections. It is the story that Mr Maras pointed out best, that the Croatian economy is full of three years in recession and that tanker I was already talking about in this assembly should be turned around. It's not easy, but we're definitely gonna make it. The very position of entrepreneurship, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and crafts and how two policy options look at it, and the two governments are best telling us that Racan's government introduced the Ministry of Small and Medium Entrepreneurship in 2000, that after both Sanader's government and the government of Ms. Kosor was lost somewhere in the impasses of the ministry through various administrations, and that this government of course returned the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts, aware of the importance of that part of the economy and aware of its motor skills to raise the economy. Therefore, economic recovery and the creation of conditions for increasing employment is a priority objective of the new Government of Croatia's economic policy and this is only one in a series of changes, one in a series of amendments and additions to the laws that create the conditions for that to happen. One of the most important tasks, which is also Mr. Minister in his opening section, pointed out, is precisely through the low capitalisation of small entrepreneurship and crafts to achieve the objective of competitive entrepreneurship that will ensure more favourable financing and guarantees, I would not repeat the figures, it is said four times, I think it is quite enough. Perhaps the strongest argument why to vote for this bill is also the support of the Croatian Chamber of crafts, just like this bill and the belief that it will help the business of their members. Thus, the creation of a competitive and attractive environment for a strong working precisely small economy as the most promising component of the Croatian economy is the aim of this law, and it is complementary with the objectives of the EU's Small Economy Act. small bussines act... , and in terms of identifying just entrepreneurship as the generator of new jobs, investments and innovation. [[You don't understand.]] Business stability, investment security is a priority goal for investors to know what we can expect in economic policy over the next few years, not that overnight as it has been very often over the past few years we change conditions, we make certain contracts, and then it ends up in 3 years full-time. The proposal therefore sets out, among other things, the categorisation of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to amend and supplement the law, in line with the European Commission's 2003 recommendation. This new harmonised categorisation of the size of entrepreneurs enables the expansion of the existing Corps of this most vital part, hence medium and small entrepreneurship, which will result in an increase in the number of users of the incentive measures for the development of entrepreneurship in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, this definition, which the Minister also specifically spoke of in the introduction, so micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and their size, is in line with the same definition of the European Investment Bank, the European Commission and the European Investment Fund, which will in any way enable, with these new tasks which, therefore, the Agency gets to make better use of support mechanisms, especially for medium and small entrepreneurship through EU-enhancing programmes. What are these new tasks that we are talking about today and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is proposing. In Article 13, Article 11 of these amendments and additions, and Article 13 of the existing law is amended, so I quote: the promotion and attraction of investment in entrepreneurship, the coordination of investment projects in cooperation with investors and bodies of the state administration, the regional, regional and local self-government and other legal persons, the coordination with the county development agencies and the cooperation with international bodies responsible for the promotion and attracting of investment and internationalisation of entrepreneurship. It is these changes that I have now quoted that will enable HAMAG to support quality projects, as well as we in the SDP club believe that this will enable the achievement of the main objectives through reducing unemployment, strengthening economic operators and developing the economy in general. Therefore, we expect these changes and additions to HAMAG to become a leading development agency that will encourage the development of entrepreneurship through its programmes and will be a strong support for entrepreneurs in creating their business success, but of course also in creating and creating new jobs. HAMAG Invest will therefore become "one stop shop" unfortunate, we always have an English solution, but it is good that everyone understands us, for entrepreneurs through whom the projects we expect will be obtained and which the minister has told us that hundreds of them have already been linked to both local authorities and financial institutions and they need all support to realise these projects. It is not necessary to mention in particular that exactly the transparent implementation of the tenders themselves, the transparent decision on projects that are being run for, of which we expect to create new values and increased employment, is exactly what I say about transparency and choice, but also in the ability for potential craftsmen and small entrepreneurs to come to quality resources, it is precisely that that enables impeccable financial discipline, what this country lacked all these years, and that when ultimately with a shifted time effect that it results also with positive results for the state budget itself, but also for the budgets of the units, through increased employment primarily, and for the budgets of units of local self-government. HAMAG INVEST will therefore, in cooperation with the county agencies, but also other agencies, and this is particularly highlighted on the Committee on Economy, so other development agencies of the local self-government units of cities and municipalities that have done so well to build a system of quality partnership for the promotion of investment opportunities and with a view to attracting foreign direct investment. And in conclusion, because of all the above, these changes aim to open a wide range of strong investment cycles, the most pro-pulsory segment of the Croatian economy to small and medium-sized entrepreneurship as a fundamental generator for the growth of the overall national economy and GDP. So after years of falling and stagnation in investments themselves, after falling below billions of euros that are really too little for any incentive strong exponential growth is what we expect. One of the accelerators of these stories are these amendments and the additions of the law will therefore be supported by the SDP club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6807	Thank you very much. As the IDS Club looks at this legislative proposal, we will be told by the distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6808	Mr. Vice President, Minister, there is no minister, gentlemen representatives. So what is certainly crucial in this Law to encourage the development of a small economy as I am experiencing it are these Articles 3, 4, etc. The original, pardoned second, is then said among other things that a small economy within the meaning of this law is made up of entities that employ an average of less than 250 workers per year. I think that in Croatia those who do not employ 200 but who employs 25 or 50 at these times is a significant business entity, I would almost dare to say large, let alone one who employs over that number. It is then said that the small economy within the meaning of this law consists of entities that are independent in business, which generate total annual turnover of up to 60 million kuna or have a sum of the balance sheet and if the taxpayers are taxpayers of profit, i.e. have long-term assets if the taxpayers of income tax are worth up to 30 million kuna in size within the meaning of this law. Then it is said in Article 3 we distinguish micro, small and medium-sized subjects, a small economy. Micro-entities of the small holding shall be natural legal persons referred to in Article 2 who, on average, have less than 10 employees per year. Small entities are those up to 50 workers who generate a total annual turnover of 16 million kuna or who have a total balance if they are taxpayers of profit, i.e. have long-term assets if income tax bonds are up to 8 million kuna, etc. However, when we look at actually opportunities in the Republic of Croatia, I dare say that the opportunities in Croatia are a little more serious than this law in 2002 regulates or prescribes as a basic law. I'm glad that, no matter what this law is now I'm experiencing, I'm not saying how, with some sugar water, but I'm glad to talk about this little economy at all at this point. And that is why I am extremely pleased that the same government has seen the need to establish a higher-a-vis of Croatian opportunities or circumstances such a ministry that will deal with the small economy. At this point, I dare say that in Croatia we have perhaps 100 to 150 as I call them large companies which mean employ more than 300 employees and 100 to 150 companies at this time in the Republic may employ between 150 and 200 thousand jobs. There's one Todorovic with 30s and some thousands of people, there's one of these ADRS with about 4 thousand people, there's a Valmar with maybe 1500 or 2,000 people etc. But what do I want to say? These 100 biggest Croatian companies or 150 total employees, I said 150 to 200 thousand jobs, somewhere full of budget with 25%, but in this financial economic world they hold about 50% of Croatian traffic. In Croatia, we have about a thousand after them, I call them middle companies, which employ between 100 and 300 employees. They also employ around 150 thousand employees, the RH budget is also filled with 25%, they hold 25% of the total traffic while on the other hand we have about 90 thousand small companies, the truth of God somewhere around 60 thousand of them are insolvent, they have 750 thousand employees, they achieve only 25% of Croatian economic traffic, they employ meanings in Croatia somewhere around 75% of people in the real sector, but that's why the RH budget is logically full of 50%. And that's really Croatian for you gentlemen. It is absolutely clear to me that we must not be created at this time in the Republic of Croatia into those large, small ones, but the truth is that with these large economic operators in Croatia we are all engaged, and about those small ones mainly if they have up to 15 or maybe 20 workers about them literally no one on the political stage wants to lead or lose time. I want to believe that this trend with this new ministry will literally change. It is also time to understand simply the public that there is no harder, that there is no more ungrateful job at this time in the Republic of Croatia than to confirm itself on the market. In doing so clearly, not using business connections without clearly participating, for example, in conversion or privatisation. Let's let these transformed companies go now. Some have succeeded, some have not come from different circumstances, but those transformed companies had this infrastructure from business spaces, machines, etc., had some established business relations on the market with committees with no importance for representatives, commissions, banks but no tycoon and I want to say that in the 1990s de facto did not have any new Golf and today became the pillars of society. With all these companies we deal with, these little economic entities up to 10, 15, 20 "people" as the people would say no one cuts. When there's a company where it works 150, 200 or 300 workers clearly it's one particular policy of power. There are trade unions that are segments of one "social policy" of a particular city, the very state. It's also political metrics, but for these small companies, I say once again, no one understands. That should change, and that's why I think it's a good thing that this ministry was formed. When I say there's no understanding, here's just one example. Agricultural land owned by the state, we know that what has become state in Istria, through the options of '47, '54, so we all advocate starting from me further to make it clear to farmers because we are all aware that there are no farmers without land. But when it comes to a business space of 30, 40 or 50 square meters, there are our mayors and the vast majority of others absolutely against giving it up in some way, but at a real price it sells to those who have been renting 10, 20, about 30 or 40 years. We don't know the agricultural land we've given in recent years for one tenth or one twentieth of the price. We've set up social housing for one thousand prices, privatized hotels, factories, maybe I don't know about one thousand prices either, but here where someone would actually get something simply under these circumstances can't. And as there are no farmers without land, there are no craftsmen, craftsmen without business space. I'd also like to know how many people in the government, the former, current head of some company with 20. 30 or 50 people, or rather, create that company, and perhaps some things would be viewed differently. Of course, God forbid there hasn't been a change of government. The odds are difficult but I'm afraid there hasn't been a change of government to make the odds worse. Mr. Finance Minister, yesterday, the day before yesterday, he returned from Washington, I don't know about the International Monetary Fund "indebted" by selling Croatian bonds by 6.375% and we all say it's a good job. But if Croatia's International Monetary Fund borrows money for 6.37% of domestic banks cannot give to the economy, citizens credits below 7.5 to 9% are often much higher. The Croatian Government through these agencies can stimulate part of these loans of 2 or 3 points, and then we talk about maximum interest for "I don't want to believe the chosen" of 4%. Where is Croatia also today? We listen every day to the performances of the Union of Dioki, Dalmatia wine, that stone down from Brač, MPČ, our shipyards all except the Oilies thank God Adrian, the Biokalnik, it's all in some way literally coat. Come on, these big Istrian companies are still holding up at this point. How long? But that's why these small companies and Istria follow the fate of others in the Republic of Croatia. In these 100 to 10 days, the new government's unemployment has increased by about 35 to 40 thousand. Clearly, this is not the responsibility of a new one, but these are the consequences of the former government's actions. In those 110, 120 days, no one can reverse these economic trends, but if the gross social product is negative, the International Monetary Fund is talking about a 0.5% drop in the government's hopes of growing 0.8% in a year's time, responsibility will be at the ruling coalition. Neither religious nor Bleiburg will exculpate us from guilt for the moment in which the country can be found, and therefore I really want to believe that the Government knows very well what it does that these trends would not be worse in due course. I want to believe it won't get any worse. We had a year 2009 when GDP fell if I wasn't wrong by 6.7, 6.8%. 2010 for an additional 2%. 2011 if I'm not wrong by 0.2%. God forbid there's a fall of 0.5% this year that'll be over 10% in four years. After that, we will easily raise this GDP from such a decline but this year it is simply a trend that needs to be reversed. To avoid losing first of all what may be most valuable at this point in time, the Croatian industry and this small craftsmanship sector that is almost on the extremity. We can fool ourselves with some big investments, etc. There are no large investors in Istria or down Brijuni, let alone that they will be elsewhere in due time. A few days ago I read a title I couldn't believe that 24 thousand 552 apartments were sold in Croatia less than in 2007. De facto it's easy to freeze the real estate market, but the market is dead and where it's all happening, so the building is, and I want to believe that we can somehow change these trends. We have a tourist season ahead of us, and I want to believe it'll be good. We in Istria will have a water problem, but I want to believe we'll get her out. People may not be allowed to drink water, but they will be able to shower and everything will be in 5, but the only way we can save the country is to start those that are the most, and these are exactly those in that small economy where I said in the introduction that it works about 750 thousand people. What's also interesting here, but we'll talk more later when it comes to the agenda of this second law, it's this agency, and then it's listed what its activity is, from fostering the establishment, the development of small economy entities, the promotion of investment entrepreneurship, the promotion of small economy investments, the promotion of small economy investments, the financing of small economy operators' business development, crediting under more favourable conditions and other forms of financial support, the granting of guarantees for loans that have been deposited by the son of a quantum survival of this small sector because they don't have the rule of property. I can pawn my father's house or my mother's, but they don't have that property. We must simply guarantee these people in some way that they can reach some relevant amount in order not to start but to save their production at the first moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6809	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6810	All in all, thank you, Mr. Vice President. If I only have one more sentence, of course we'll support this. We support every mention of a small economy. What I would like to change is these benefits that members of public companies will receive. I don't know why they should be in a better position than the President of the State or the Prime Minister or some minister, and that they are on the market as shipbuilders, so if someone successfully operates he carries home 100 thousand euros a month, but one in Croatian roads, highways, etc., has nothing to pay more than a prime minister or minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6811	Thank you very much. It is just time to apply for an individual debate for 10 minutes, and the debate on behalf of the clubs will be concluded by the distinguished representative Dinko Buric, who will bring us closer to HDSSB's position.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6812	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Having listened to previous discussions, one would have the impression that honey and milk have been flowing in Croatia in recent months, but if it is known in the morning it is not good for us. It's not a bad time but a man, the words of English poet John Blumont from the end of the 16th and early 17th centuries. This thought of nearly 400 years old is also today calling for reflection on its truthfulness and timeless modernity. For years now, in Croatia, we have been facing the word crisis on a daily basis, not only the economic crisis but also the crisis of morality and honesty, the crisis of credibility, the crisis of self-respect and mutual respect. In Croatia, even optimism, the human, the people, was found in a daily crisis. In terms of all kinds of and growing poverty, unemployment, galloping expensiveness, youth without perspective, jobless workers, pensioners without decent pensions, this fact is not surprising. And precisely because of the situation in which Croatia has been in the recent December elections last year, Croatian citizens chose and elected a new power, the new ruling majority, and the ruling majority chose a new Croatian government. They chose change because our Croatian crisis is not only so often blamed for the global economic crisis, but unfortunately our Croatian government, which has been encumbered in crime in recent years and in the robbery of its own people. And that is why, in these past elections, she was punished by Croatian citizens in the way that only she could be punished, by the necessity of leaving the government, and the new one was given the opportunity, but also by the task of being not only the second but the different authority. They have been given the opportunity to be better, fairer, more capable, more social, more national, all Croatian power, and what power we have today. It is common for the first 100 days of each new authority to give the same authority time to show what and how they not only can but also how they intend to rule and manage common good. In the first 100 days of this old democratic practice, we from the HDSSB's Club of Representatives respected this old democratic practice and did not criticise or attack any move by the new Croatian government in the ranks of the so-called so-called government. Kukuriku coalition. It is a natural task of opposition, and HDSSB is an opposition, not only to criticise but also to critically address and analyse the work and behaviour of rulings to be a cornerstone of the wrong solutions to the common goal of progress of the entire Croatian society, all its citizens. Although the opposition, we hoped and wanted in the interest of all Croatian citizens that after the first 100 days, there would be much less reason to criticise the ruling than there were in the times of the previous government, and what in these 125 days did the new Croatian authorities get? Everything, just what the Croatian citizens expected and hoped not to do. Today's Croatian government has offered citizens hope with its pre-election promises, and in its work in the four months instead of hope, it has given them disappointment, disappointment and a sense of deception. It is as if, in terms of hope and expectation, they were guided by that Goethe saying: all men are disappointed in their hopes and are deceived in their expectations. As a very representative example of this disappointment, today's Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Encouragement of Small Economy Development reads. The Ministry of entrepreneurship and crafts is one of the most important when it comes to finding a solution to the exit from the economic crisis that shakes Croatia dangerously and severely, especially considering the fact that in the opening part of this proposal the Croatian Government itself also states that in Croatia, small and medium enterprises account for more than 99% of the total number of economic operators. And then, eagerly looking forward to seeing what is new, not only in encouraging this development to get that development but also to easing and possibly changing the criteria for obtaining and using those 370 million kunas that are envisaged through the 24 measures mentioned, in this today's proposal for a law that speaks in its title about encouraging the development of a small economy, man is at least astounded when he read this bill realizes that the new promotion of this development is only spoken in the title, and in the text of some new measures, except for those 24 measures already mentioned. About new real incentives and encouraging neither a word nor a single example, nor a single new concrete measure that should contribute to the development of a small economy. Instead of concrete measures on these annexes, we find barely 20 pages of text, quote: new regulatory institutional frameworks for intensive promotion and attracting investment in entrepreneurship with the aim of increasing investment activities and strengthening the overall competitiveness of entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia. It's a finished quote. Instead of concrete new measures to encourage the development of a small economy in this bill, you are offering us, again, "the parameters of the categorization of micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in a way that the existing categorisation is aligned with the European Commission's 2003 recommendation". Instead of proposing real new measures that should and should be an incentive to develop a small economy, you today sent before us representatives of the Croatian Parliament material that changes the definitions of micro, macro and medium-sized enterprises. Does anyone in the competent ministry and the government of the Republic of Croatia really think that this, by changing the definition of businesses, will attract investments in the entrepreneurship of the Republic of Croatia? As before, so did this Government of the Republic of Croatia as a reason for submitting the so-called proposal. "new legal solutions" already states the usual phrase on, I quote, "the harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation and with the acquis of the EU and the legal acts of the Council of Europe." Gentlemen of the Government of the Republic of Croatia must finally cease to comply with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation, but begin to coordinate your work and your action with the necessary needs and legitimate expectations of Croatian citizens. Instead of constantly looking at Brussels and blindly unspeakable meeting the bureaucrat's demands from it, look at the needs and expectations of Croatian citizens. Because you were elected by Croatian citizens, and you represent them, and you should serve them, and not serve Brussels or anyone else. Changes in the definition of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises and changes in the name and work of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy in Croatia's Small Economy and Investment Agency are not what is the path towards Croatia's exit from the economic crisis. Such bill proposals indicate that this government, unfortunately not even the previous one, has no vision of what to do to get the state and its citizens out of the ever-increasing and ever-increasing crisis that threatens everyone already lost in space and time, and it is unsuccessfully looking for a way out of the crisis. I say lost in space and time because this Croatian government instead of looking not only at the present but far ahead in the 21st century is increasingly turning not only in the near past but in the distant past at a time of 67, 70 or more years. Gentlemen of the Ban Courts and Pantovkats, please stop dealing with World War II already solve the problems of the daily 21st century Croatian citizens. You were not elected by Croatian citizens to re-introduce divisions into the Croatian national Corps on children and grandchildren of partisan and Ustasha. You were not elected by Croatian citizens to worship one, and you are turning your head from other victims. You are not elected by Croatian citizens, and it is only normal for the Croatian government to place crowns in Jasenovac, and that it makes a shameful decision to give up the patronage of the Croatian Parliament over the memorial of the Bleibur tragedy. Crime is a crime and victims are victims. So also those who beastly committed the communist authorities of the criminal Tito regime over hundreds of thousands of innocent Croatian civilians and war prisoners on the crossroad of those first battle months in '45. A year. And those victims who were the descendants of those '45 criminals. committed over Croatian youth and Croatian people 20 years ago during the Homeland War, one and the other criminals were only the red star of the five-pointed and cocarda.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6813	Come back to that, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6814	I'll be back very soon and this is all about the subject. And if the Croatian President and the President of the Croatian Government and the President of the Croatian Parliament consider it necessary to go bow down to the victims of Jasenovac, and they should not do so to the victims of the Bleibur tragedy, then this power is not all Croatian but the power of one failed ideology, the power of only part of the Croatian people. And if you don't feel the need to make a point for the Croatian victims of the Bleibur tragedy, then it's up to all of us who consider it a necessary obligation to be there and publicly say that we will be there.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6815	Be nice to your colleague. Get back to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6816	I don't want to talk about this any more, but this has to be pointed out because this government is more concerned with the past and that far away opening of old wounds.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6817	Offer a topic and we'll put my colleague Buric on the agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6818	By creating new problems and divisions in Croatian society rather than the present and solving problems that are so difficult for Croatian citizens today. If there is something to be changed in history textbooks for our children then it is certainly not partisans, Ustashas and Chetniks of World War II but finally writing the truth about the Homeland War in a way that children of our Croatian defenders do what we did in the 1990s and do with our pride. In the end, we go back to this bill. This bill is in favour of Croatia's exit from the economic crisis of very little benefit. And not only that, he is another indicator of the inability of the new Croatian government to really start pulling the state out of the overall crisis. And it is a sign that the 21st Kukurik coalition is increasingly similar to HDZ's guarantee card every day. Both are symbols of unfulfilled and false promises, unfulfilled hopes and great disappointment for Croatian citizens. 125 days of the new Croatian government not only is it not promising but it is also very, very worrying. And when it comes to Slavonia and Baranja, but also when it comes to the entire Republic of Croatia. The promise made by Prime Minister Milanovic here at the Croatian Parliament on 23 December 2011 at the presentation of this new government of the Republic of Croatia that, I quote, "special care and attention" will be given to Slavonia and Baranja as an unfairly neglected and impoverished region already in the adoption of the state budget for this year has been shown as another one in a series of eased promises without real desire to be fulfilled. He spoke and spoke to you, Mr. Minister, in his introduction about 3.4 billion savings in this year's state budget, that is correct, but you did not say the embarrassing fact that out of the 3.4 billion cuts in expenditure in the state budget, even billions and 350 million kuna is therefore 40% of all state budget savings in this year at the division of the Ministry of Agriculture Activities, which is the main strategic branch of the economy of Slavonia and Baranja and West Srijem. That fact itself speaks for itself as this government of Slavonia and Baranja remembers and only needs it when the time comes before the elections. But we do not put up with it, and we do not give up and we will not stay away from the spirit, on the contrary, the rude and impertinent ignoring of the difficult life of the citizens of this proud Croatian region is just an even greater motive for all political means to fight in the interest of the citizens who are here in the Croatian Parliament and represent ourselves. Because we're always holding on and those Hemingway thoughts of a man with a spirit can destroy him, but I can't beat him. This applies to all citizens of Slavonia and Baranja, and it applies to all of us in the HDSSB. And every government is fleeting, the citizens bring it to the throne of power, but they also take it off that throne. And everyone has to be aware of that, and so does this Croatian government today. As much as you will give Slavonia and Baranja and West Srijem to Slavonians, Baranjas and Western sremes, you will receive. And how much trust you will give to the citizens of all Croatia from Croatian citizens and in the next elections. Finally, this proposal for a law is small and it is of questionable benefit in order to find a solution to the exit from the Croatian economic crisis. Just as its previous moves to improve the living conditions of Croatian citizens have been a new Croatian government. Because the introduction of new taxes, more VAT, the rampage of all prices, not only of fuel but of everything that could have been collected and in the announcements of new purchases, for example. Currents that and not to mention an increase in the number of unemployed by more than 30,000, with a reduction in the number of employees by 250 thousand spent and the announced bankruptcys, announcements in the pre-election campaign of unannounced privatisations of the still few remaining national wealth from Croatia and the Croatian Post office bank to the Kutinska Petrokemia and the participation in Podravka for short-term patching up of budget gaps new borrowings and such over-indebted states of shameless political staffing in the well-paid managements of supervisory boards and administrative councils, as well as in the way that it is more relevant to her how unemployed she is than the number of young people who are offered volunteering, which is all these features and the results of work of the first 100 days of the new Croatian government, the government working in a way that she is more important than the number of young people who, instead of young people, who offer volunteering in particular, who are still facing her pensioning her pensions in the 27 years of pensions, which are not enough. The NOB participants in the Partisan pension, while living male citizens over 85 years old in the Republic of Croatia have 2.5 times the number that receives partisan pensions that cost Croatian citizens 100 million kuna annually. A government that, in order to encourage the development of a small economy, what we see from this present bill's proposal instead of concrete measures, only sends changes to the definition of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. God regrets such legal proposals and these first 125 new Croatian authorities. 'Cause I'll say it again if it's morning, and it's not good for us. The HDSSB advocates' club will not support this bill because such proposals by law are not of any special benefit to Croatia from the economic crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6819	Thank you, too. It is not right for fellow Members to open the topic beyond the Rules of Procedure, as it is simply that other colleagues cannot participate in the subject and they certainly have something to say. So please, at least from that point of view of correctness towards fellow MPs in this House, stick to the subject that we have jointly identified as being on the agenda. I'm asking you nicely very correctly. ... Yes, but we need to agree on what agenda we're going to discuss. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's why we have a deal and a vote on the agenda. Be nice. Thank you very much. If you're not going to listen, we have no other instruments than a request, and the warnings are not a criterion. Thank you very much. We have on your exhibit a correction to an incorrect quote. Dear Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6820	Representative Buric, speaking of small entrepreneurship, opened a new topic and said a number of inaccuracies, and I will draw attention to one thing. This year as well as any other year, all those who go there, MP Buric and members of his party have not been seen there all these years. Whatever you decide. He said that the president of the state, the Prime Minister and the President of the Croatian Parliament, we assume that all of us who gathered there were for the reason of one ideology. I guess he means the ideology that was in power from '45 to '90. We are not gathered there for this ideology, but are gathered for the ideology that created this concentration camp of death, we are gathered for the sacrifices that this ideology created, for the policy and the policy of extinction that this ideology led, and that is why we will gather there. By such statements, MP Buric did not only present inaccuracies but he violated Croatian rules to prevent criminal and criminal insults to the victims of the Holocaust, the victims of genocide and victims of international laws preventing penalties such as [[Thank you very much. Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6821	We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6822	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I really didn't want to pollemise about this, but the Rules of Procedure was clearly injured because you were correcting something I didn't say. And now I'm going to quote exactly what I said.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6823	What provision, Mr. Representative?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6824	209 and 214. And if the Croatian President and the President of the Croatian Government and the President of the Croatian Parliament believe that they should go bow down to the victims of Jasenovac, and that they should not do so to the victims of the Bleibur tragedy of the Croatian people, then that power is not all-national and represents the power of one ideology. So if they do one thing and they don't do another. There's no reason to do one thing and not do another. Therefore, do not correct something that is not literally said.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6825	Injury of the Rules of Procedure new, fellow representative respected Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6826	Mr. Vice President. We're all witnesses that this wasn't about hurting the Rules of Procedure, it was about correcting my correction of the allegations. Therefore, if we are to stick to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament as we should in this case, then we should find an adequate place for MP Buric in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and also in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6827	Comrade Pupovac, you had the same way now as your colleague Buric. As far as the Rules of Procedure are concerned, you've been working things out. Thank you very much. We have exhausted the list of clubs in the Croatian Parliament, the club representatives who have applied to discuss this topic. Mr Maras Gordan's minister of entrepreneurship and crafts came forward.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6828	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here is this last debate by my colleague Buric reminds me of the parliamentary days when sometimes the term of the debate determines what will be said, not what is on the agenda. So these terms are quite suitable for a fairly broad understanding of what should be discussed when discussing a law in question. And now I'd just like to say a few things about this law about clubs. Thank you all for the debate, and I will start here with my colleague Buric and his remarks that there are no specifics written here or that there is no way to see how it will help the small economy. The main thing is that we have yet proposed a law that creates a framework, means a legislative framework that certain institutions can act. In this sense, the Small Economy Agency, the Ministry, everything that can be formed under that law and in the way that we can help the small economy with the provisions of that law, means there is no need for us to write concrete operational measures in laws or ever do so. If you followed your colleague Buric, we proposed a small economy incentive programme more than a month ago, so within a month of the adoption of the budget we proposed a small economy incentive programme as a ministry in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The program is called Entrepreneurial Impulse and I would direct you to the Government's pages to see, or my ministry to see what we have predicted there and how we intend to help small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia, and this law is only one framework in the way that we will do it in the future and there is no need for such operational things to stand inside. But I'm sorry when you said this law, no matter how little help you mentioned, would be of little use, if it's a small benefit, it would be a good thing that you supported it because it's better and a small benefit than no benefit. So it would be good for the HDSSB's club to support this law if it sees a small benefit for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in Croatia. As for the road and the road search, what I can say here is very clear, I have to comment on it as a representative of the government at this session, we have found the way out of the crisis and we are on our way, and that's what we're starting to see by the decisions this government is making in the first 125 days. And I would like to tell you about entrepreneurs and craftsmen, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and craftsmen, what we have done. We disbursed them in taxes, contributed 2% of the health care on gross wages, disbursed them with parafiscal duties, we brought in a plan to encourage a small economy, we secured through the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development the most favourable funding of these programmes, investments in this year from 1 to 3%, which are the credits that are the most accessible and most accessible on the market with a start of 4 or 5 years, i.e. the repayment deadline of 17 years. We also made a plan, a new Croatian Small Economy Guarantee Programme, which will be adopted by the government on Friday with an increase in the guarantee fund from a billion to 2 billion kuna. And I've already said in response to my colleague Popijac, we're going to make guarantees for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs as many as there have been in the last four years of HDZ authorities only in one year. So that's also another help. We did this to keep in Croatia a credit rating, that the risk of investment in Croatia was nothing more than it was, and everyone predicted it would be bigger, that the Croatian credit rating would fall. We have done this year's double investment in Croatia, we have presented a programme of investment in a public private partnership worth 15 billion kuna that will be realised in the next 2, 3 years, which will also employ small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in Croatia because these are not large investments when it comes to public private partnerships, but just small and medium-sized investments. So we've secured more competitive conditions, we've secured funding. On Friday, on the HBOR, we also have one decision to go to a new guarantee programme for the liquidity of Croatian entrepreneurs worth 8 billion kuna in collaboration with the CNB and to reduce the mandatory reserves of Croatian banks where the programme will guarantee for trade funds, not for investments, interest not greater than 4%. What I've been saying between 1% and 3% is investment, but for crafts, it's going to be about 4% of the interest rate again. If we talk about units that are less developed, out of special state care and here we have made a difference, and many in Slavonia are just going to use such loans where the loans will be 1% for investments, meaning the difference compared to the other part of Croatia. We have done as I have now stated, a dozen things that guarantee that we have found our way, that we are on our way, that we are making decisions and that the result after three years of recession this year will be positive for the economy. Of course, not what we would expect and want, but it's not possible to do things in 100 days, the results will only be seen in 2013 and later years. As far as fellow Cain's remarks are concerned, we are in charge but not with the IMF, it is now important to say only that citizens who listen to us, we are in charge of various investors, funds that have given confidence to the Croatian government that what we propose is realistic and that what we will do next years is feasible. That's what I said five times as much interest as we offered the bond. A colleague, Martincevic, in this observation about the classification, is literally made in line with the EU standard and we did not want to make exceptions, so 2 out of 3 criteria must be met for the size of the company, but the fixed criterion is the number of employees. As for another comment by a fellow drinker that I will not determine who will report to the competition. Everyone can answer the competition, everyone, I call on them once again to report to the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts and local unit leaders absolutely for entrepreneurship infrastructure it is important that as many people report to these competitions as possible. But the funds will no longer be allocated, as they were in previous years, to be allocated to unspective projects large amounts of funds. We have these limited resources, and we will increase them in the coming years because the plan of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts is to make the budget of the ministry double in 2014 than it is today, not on the Croatian taxpayers' continent, but on the EU budget, where we believe that we will have enough programmes to use all these funds. So those resources that are limited we want to use in the best possible way. Everyone can report, but the funds will be made transparently by those projects that guarantee the greatest success and best success and return of funds for the Croatian economy and the Croatian state, the employment of people and everything we expect to happen in the coming years. In the end, thank you on behalf of the clubs for the debate. I am convinced that, despite the fact that these laws create a framework, and they do not have operational implementation as some other documents resulting from this law, we will have a better coordination with local development agencies in terms of attracting investments outside Croatia, that we will have a more effective agency that will provide more support, that we will have better coordination with local units of local development agencies in terms of attracting investments outside of Croatia, that in the programmes that can get out of this law we will in the best way possible encourage the Croatian economy, that on the basis of all this I said next year we will have the result that is desired, which is that we do not have 4 years in a row of economic downturn. And here I would also be attached to my colleague Caine, says colleague Caine that his law seems like sugar water, sugar water. Look, after 3 years of heart attack in the Croatian economy and water with sugar is welcome. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6829	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We have a registered correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative Dinko Buric. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6830	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, I'm correcting your incorrect claim and an incorrect finding that the way out of the crisis has been found. So I think the best thing about this is the fact that more than 30,000 newly unemployed, more than 250 thousand less employees that we've already mentioned, and if that's the way out of the RS crisis, then we're not on the right track. And you said something else that was only partially true, you talked about what was disbursed citizens, and at the same time you don't say what they were burdened with – a larger VAT, more expensive entry costs, electricity, fuel, gas, and whatever they could or couldn't collect. And when you said little use so it should have been supported, Croatia is in such great trouble that such solutions as are small and questionable benefits are certainly not what needs to be supported. Your ministry is one of the most important ministries to get out of the crisis, and we expect more.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6831	Your Honor, the time has elapsed, and you're correcting the beliefs of the entire government that you can't do at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6832	I'm taking mine out.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6833	Yes, but it is a business institute that corrects an incorrect quote, not an incorrect opinion or an incorrect opinion. Thank you very much. That's how we exhausted the list of registered representatives' clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate of deputies for 10 minutes. The first for the word came from a respected representative, Mladen Marelic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6834	Dear Vice President, distinguished ministers with colleagues, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I think this law came a minute before twelve because when we remember how we lived, what happened, I can only remember my island, I come from Korčula, a disaster that happened there. We see that life on the islands is more expensive than in the rest of the country. We see when we look at everything together that we're in a difficult situation, that a lot of companies have recently gone bankrupt by the previous authorities. I've been looking in my city at INCOBROD Shipyard being bankrupt for years. That the commercial company of the City is in bankruptcy, that the shipping company we had is the only shipping company OTRA for a few months in bankruptcy. Dear Ministers, you were back a month in Korčula, you spoke to cooperative managers, and yet it is a difficult situation that many cooperatives did not pay the winemakers for 4 years their product, that the wineries on Pelješac and some on Korčula were full of wine, and farmers did not receive any compensation for 4 years. So that's all the seriousness of the work of the previous government. I look at OTRA on Friday is part of a shipyard that was bankrupted by a foreign partner, they came to the mayor on Friday and announced that workers are being fired. So this company's going down, too, let it be privatized, I think a private partner from the Netherlands is stopping jobs. We have only one company left, i.e. the hotel company of gentlemen in 2000, that was the company that dealt with the minus. By 2004, the coalition government had risen to plus. For the past eight years, it's not a small loss. It's just more than 40 million losses. It's the work of the previous government and incentives in such things. Fortunately, the government recognized and assessed the difficulties so that the team of people who had not received the salary managed to pay 3 salaries a few days ago, people accepted it well and continued preparing the season and we expect the company to be saved and not go into bankruptcy. So it's a very bad situation. It's hard for me to listen here at the pay phone from my colleagues. We work the bridge. You don't do it. I just have to tell you on that bridge they spent 75 million making his investments 3.85%. So 3,85%, and they finished the work on it, and they ended the work on 5.06.2010. They're telling us about these jobs today. The contractors sued the Croatian state, i.e. Croatian roads, and asked for the compensation of 119 million. That's their job, that's how they do it. Unfortunately, we've got the ferry, I was talking the last time there's no bus coming through, no truck coming through. And they bought it for us, and thank them for those gifts and for that kind of work. That's why I think Ministers are good at this law of incentive that's changing, only this law, if it's passed alone, won't be so successful if we don't change other laws right now. It is good that you said there will be transparency, but not transparency when we are at the County Assembly under the agenda point there near the end of Dubrovnik-Neretvanska we get the agenda point correction of the error in the spatial plan. And somebody gets 20 thousand squares. And that was the point of the agenda that came to the congregation itself. We objected, it was lying, the change of power the ministry is abolishing now. And in the last assembly, we abolished it, and there was a change. That's why it's good that everything is going to be transparent and that it's known that the business that's going to be is going to be respected. And I would ask you to initiate the procedure... in order to initiate the procedure for the amendment of the Article of the Road Transport Act, Article 2(1), point 28 and Article 45, which stipulates that the funeral transport of passengers in road transport in which the group agreed in advance cannot be carried out but only by the owners or bus operators. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'm telling you now what's going on. We're now going to the airport to Dubrovnik, order a taxi from Korčula can't come, can't even van for the four of us, only a bus can come. The ferry bus map is 800 kuna return, and the private vehicle is 80 kuna. I'm telling you, agencies, travel agencies, small carriers and craftsmen have come into question on this basis. So road traffic inspectors often stop them and shut them out of traffic on those stocks. And I would ask you to be one driver to discuss with your colleagues to look at this matter and try to correct those two articles of the law with only one word and for other vehicles, personal vehicles 4 plus 1 or 8 plus 1. This would contribute that our agencies that work for 2 months should not be owned by buses and professional drivers because they do not need to be largely lost for such small businesses that work only 2 to 3 months maximum in the year. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6835	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative, Stjepan Milinkovic, reported the replica to your presentation. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6836	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of Marelic's said that this law comes a minute before 12. And it's nice to hear the optimism that you have about this law and God forbid he solves many of the things and those examples that you've been saying from your midst, you've really talked about the problem of the bankruptcy of many companies, and I really feel for everyone who's lost their jobs, and in that part, I don't think there's any dilemma. But here I am taking the opportunity, I come from another environment that is the agricultural environment where the same kind of troubles happen. A number of OPGs fail every day. You saw what happened to the milk a short time ago as it was placed. An even bigger problem is indicated in the area of meat production, it will only come now and will show what will happen. So, I also believe that the government in that part as well as it has shown you said to you a short time ago understanding and certain steps to take and in my midst, to be. And not to be that way for a heart attack, as Mr. Minister said, chronically aids in sweet water. That's not true. It helps today in modern cardiology in heart attacks and stents and bypasses and many diagnostic and therapeutic methods, so we expect one approach radically in this therapy that will help everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6837	Thank you, too. The reply to the replica, the respected representative Marelic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6838	I'd just like a little bit. We accept that business restructuring is going and that is what is the guarantee that at that moment the government will help when it sees that it is safe and secure that something will change. I'm not for what we're not and no one to stay the same, let the state just give, and we'll do what we've done so far. I mean, I don't accept it either in my midst or in the other environments. So the Cooperative Business Restructuring Programme and this should come to work with a positive, not just to raise money and stay on the same as we've done so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6839	Thank you very much. The next debate on this topic of 10 minutes has a respected representative, Nadica Jelas. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6840	Honorable Vice President, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. For the introduction of this legislative proposal, I will quote a section of the Government's programme, which reads as follows: "The main objective of the government's economic policy is to establish a competitive knowledge-based economy and export-oriented economy, an economy that ensures the growth of added value and employment growth while respecting the principle of social cohesion". This legislative proposal should contribute to that very objective. In recent times, economic growth in Croatia has been based on consumption that has been fuelled by the sale of banks and market-dominated companies, so the telecommunications of pharmaceutical companies, on the other hand, ample borrowing. The competitiveness of the Croatian economy has gone down year after year and is indeed at a low level which, of course, had an extremely poor impact on the volume of exports. The current government has a completely different concept of economic growth. It is a concept based on production, investment, entrepreneurship, and in this sense in this really difficult economic situation, this government has one really difficult job, a really hard job, which is the launch of an economy in one positive direction. Intentional, they call the concept neoliberal. They see him as a supporter of large-scale capital. They even say the government is in big capital growths. They don't understand, unfortunately, that we all live from the economy. We live badly from a bad economy, and we'd live better than the better economy. Therefore, support for the economy is sound and therefore this government has reduced the gross labour price through a reduction in health contributions just to make Croatia's product more competitive, cheaper, so that the product is more accessible to the domestic buyer and more acceptable to the foreign customer. That's why we've released taxes on those who reinvest profits but we've also penalized those who want to pay dividends. That's why we've reduced certain parafiscal burdens, given the possibility of a debt reprogramme, etc., etc. In one word, we freed the Croatian economy for about 3 billion kuna. All these measures are support to the economy as a whole, not to support large capital. The question is actually how serious it is to talk about large capital in the Croatian context when we know the fact that the Croatian economy is actually a micro-economic structure. In fact, 80% of the total number of economic operators make up exactly small companies, together with medium-sized enterprises, they account for as much as 99% of the total number of economic operators. In his discussion, counterpart Cain said that no one in Croatia cares about small entrepreneurship. Although this government knows the importance of this particular segment of the economy and how much account with its potential proves precisely that it has established a special ministry for this segment, the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts. This law is rounding up we could say the institutional regulatory framework of a small economy, which includes several things. First, the categorisation of the size parameters of entrepreneurs with the European Commission's 2003 recommendation is coordinated. What does that mean exactly? This means that a micro, small or medium-sized company in Croatia will mean the same thing as a micro, small or medium-sized company in the EU, as we know so far, has not been the case. According to new financial parameters, the number of companies that have been classified as small companies so far, so that one particular number will become micro-enterprises. One number so far will become small companies, and one number or one smaller number so far will become medium-sized companies. This automatically means that part of these companies will be reduced by some parafiscal duties that depend precisely on the size of the company, such as the contribution to the Chamber of Commerce. Although in this for entrepreneurs the difficult times every reduction in giving is very good news, this is not the best news. In fact, it is far more important for the Croatian economy to increase significantly the number of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, in a word the small Croatian economy Corps will expand, and this means that there will be an increase in the number of potential users of support and incentives aimed at small and medium-sized entrepreneurship through EU programmes. What else is useful in making this legal proposal? This law classifies according to the size of the company, it also classifies investment projects, i.e. micro, medium and small. And finally, what is most important in this legislative proposal, it sets out new, extremely important tasks for the Croatian small economy agency. It is a promotion and attract investment in entrepreneurship and it will be visible already from the very name of the agency that is changing to HAMAG Invest. So HAMAG Invest, together with the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and Trade, will propose and implement joint projects financed from European funds, and one of the most important tasks will be coordination with the county development agencies, development agencies in cities, which should contribute to better policy implementation, regional development and more efficient use of EU funds. The agency will also coordinate the implementation of investment projects with investors and state administration bodies and local and regional self-government units. And it is this coordinated policy of attracting new investments that becomes one of the strategic instruments of national economic policy necessary to achieve economic growth and increase employment, and it is precisely an increase in economic growth and an increase in employment that will assess the success or failure of the government. This first refers primarily to the attraction of foreign investors who have made us in recent years, we all know that, unfortunately, have been bypassing a wide port. Of course, it would be good if more than that was the case so far, making sure that each foreign investment is not a good investment. So far, experience has shown that the largest number of foreign investments has so far resulted in the purchase of the Croatian market, so the creation of its own monopolies, and only the private monopoly is worse than the state monopoly. It is also not the correct view that foreign investments were the only ones that raised Croatian exports. It is often forgotten that the largest investors in the Republic of Croatia are actually Croatian citizens and Croatian companies and that their capital is no less valuable than the capital of foreign investors. So to conclude, we want to believe that this law will also contribute to Croatia being a more desirable investment, investment destination, but that foreign investment meets certain criteria, so that they do not create a monopoly, that they do not lead to job closure, that they raise the growth of gross domestic product and that they primarily provide a product for either export or the substitution of imports. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6841	Thank you very much to the esteemed representative, Nadci Jelash. Next in the debate on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Encouragement and Development of the Small Economy, a respected representative, Boris Blažekovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6842	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. About the law itself, the details of the law were spoken by previous colleagues and spoke on behalf of the HNS club, Liberal Democrats counterpart Natalija Martincevic. I'd like to say a few words about seeing me and seeing the HNS, the Liberal Democrats, on the meaning of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. We believe that small and medium-sized entrepreneurship is a dry need for everyone, especially small countries, for a number of reasons. The first is due to the development of the economy in general, the second because of the good feeling that citizens and citizens live in a country where all personal entrepreneurship potentials and third, no less important, because of the release of the inexhaustible creative potentials of entrepreneurs and all those who follow entrepreneurship, but ultimately because of the release of the creative potential of the entire society. In a small number of citizens of the state as a true regulator of justice and a sense of equality, there must be incentives and development of small entrepreneurship. It is hardly possible for a less-state resident to feel good if he is conscious of the knowledge that all work for several large entrepreneurs of whom he is one of the largest states in Croatia. The state economy, except for the undried corruption polygon, is particularly fertile in the adoption of the wrongs. political decisions in the economy that regularly result in disaster. The economy and the economy require exclusively income decisions, and as soon as policy involvement starts a steep spiral of non-profits, permanent, some times inconspicuous losses, and then it pays clearly for citizens and citizens, and often in huge amounts of money. Another anomaly of the state economy is incompetence in a negative sense. Who can compete with the state in a public open market and who can win the country in a competition. Large entrepreneurs are important and must not be killed by any measures, but should not be encouraged under normal conditions, especially unlike small entrepreneurs, from the country's title. Small entrepreneurs and small entrepreneurship should, however, be encouraged in all possible realistic, cost-effective ways with all possible resources from all national and national resources. I think it is necessary to provide small entrepreneurs with local education to acquire various skills and skills in the proper management of small entrepreneurship. It is clear that the right of entrepreneurial activity requires a regulated rule of law and it is clear that for successful entrepreneurship a well-organised and positive environment is important. The role of the state in encouraging and developing small entrepreneurship is absolutely desiccated. The state is necessary in regulating fair market relations and is necessary in the control of fair competition. There the role of the state is irreplaceable and it is obliged to find all possible instruments to meet and enable its most important roles in the economy for all business entities to match equal and control the same match. There are in Croatia, regardless of the situation, nat average tough entrepreneurs who are despite all the difficulties, the problems of liquidity, false competition, the motherhood of the state, the planting of local self-government, the problem solutions of the institution, etc. He managed to survive and develop his economies. They should certainly be helped to develop their economies further. One of the things that should definitely be mentioned is the entrepreneurship climate in Croatia today. It is amazing that even after 20 years of escape from the agreed economy, we have not freed ourselves from thinking that he or she will become rich as if it were a sin. Entrepreneurship and entrepreneurial activities have only one task, which is to create profits or profits and enrich the conditionally spoken entrepreneur. The more someone earns their entrepreneurial activity, the more they know he's a more successful entrepreneur. Successful entrepreneurs must be our pride and example for others to imitate them. Croatia must enable its citizens and citizens to materially enrich their entrepreneurial activities, being rich is not immoral. Being rich doesn't mean being a bad member of the community. Being rich means being successful, smart, capable. We should be proud of successful and wealthy entrepreneurs, we must give them social recognition and status as we should be proud and give social recognition and to all other successful people, successful artists or athletes or anyone else who rises above average by their abilities. Small and medium-sized enterprises employs the largest number of employees from the so-called so-called population. "real sector" and the right to work and to live from your own work is also an element of human rights. Unemployment is not only a question of existence but also a question of everyone's personal dignity of feeling that its environment values and should also be valued as an equal citizen, i.e. a citizen, participates in his country. Therefore, unemployment, especially long-term, is a source of not only financial but also of any other injustice. The State must therefore ensure conditions for the development of the total economy. In my opinion, especially a small entrepreneurship that can only guarantee human rights in the field of labour rights and life from its own work. I believe that the proposal for this law is fully on the path of achieving that goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6843	Thank you very much. The next 10 minutes of debate over the bill is a respected colleague of MPs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6844	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I also believe that this bill will provide a stable institutional framework for investors. In fact, it is no secret that the strength of a country and so on, that should be so, that it rests essentially on small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, but we must be realistic that there is no real development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship unless we have a large entrepreneurship, or a large industry, which is also in sight and in the efforts of the authorities. So, what's been going on? Is it even who it was, you could rightly say the undertaker of small craftsmen and entrepreneurs? For example, in Zadar you have, because the largest company is the ZRP, it's not the ZERP you resisted, it's closed for reorganization. Because people are so proud that they simply failed not by their own fault and closed their turns. So it's basic, and it's done by many developed countries that are affected by the crisis but which successfully and deal with how much the state invests in small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. And that's why these attempts have to come across reception and support with all of us. What should also be noted is that it would never happen again, which is the double attitude of the state and the government towards craftsmen of such or such an implementation or political commitment. And that's what it was. So it is precisely because of this kind of action that not only harms those who act in accordance with the law but also those whom the state looks through their fingers make unfair competition. So here it turns out that the state and that the authorities are primarily in solving these things, not only to harm them, but not to use them. And I think that achieves both goals. It is only an example of how, before the end of our judiciary, the demands of the state were buried through the Ministry of Finance in relation to small craftsmen who remained in debt both to workers and to the state, whose claims had become obsolete. On the other hand, for some others, for the vast majority, they were chosen, loved by the regime, the system, and for those other ordinary, the vast majority, they had to put the key in the lock because of these and those. An earthquake is the example of a family in Zadar, Arbanas, who just because they failed to pay off a minor debt that then grew to an unprecedented extent for them huge and insurmountable where the state was so zealous that it also took away their grandfatherland. Even what isn't directly their property. And that's what people see, and it's not just, it's just maybe the most ferocious examples that have been shown in public, but small entrepreneurs struggle hard and many have failed. And that is why they will surely come across great approval not only of this bill or of good laws if there is no serious will they can fail in the maze and in the free administration that sees only how to reject the request, not how to accept it. The minister well noted that the end of this was the posit and the construction of the villages of Podokin, where it is God's way for some entrepreneurial zones to honor those units of local self-government who, with the help of the state, have succeeded and done so for joy before all craftsmen, and then for the economic development of the region and the country as a whole. But unfortunately, they're rare. It's more like the situation in Zadar. The big project Black, which is a project of a large entrepreneurial zone, has been sung to him since 2005. The state even gave another 400 hectares of forest land in 2009 to create a zone of entrepreneurs with a mandatory unit of local self-government i.e. the city to participate or to the state of minor and negligible 2 million 700 thousand kuna. They haven't done that yet, and on the other hand, none of the trees there have been cut down so that this area could actually be put into operation. But she's the one you talk about all the time. No one's seen her, and she's being talked about all the time. And that cost Croatia the most. Well, we've seen the headlines of last year's big projects for which there was no basis at all. And that's what they were talking about. People believed what they read, and there was no sign of it, let alone the realization. And that's why it encourages the willingness of the authorities to break up more from the Cacin villages. To know how long it will take, how much it will cost, how many units of local self-government will participate, how many individuals will participate, how many countries will participate. I'm sure this is the time to look back on women's entrepreneurship. Only the example in 2010 was a thousand 600 demands from women entrepreneurs and those who wanted to become entrepreneurs, and all those who were able to do so see how they were successfully handled as well as men, if not in their jobs they were more successful and with much less and more modest means. Unfortunately, out of these thousands of 600 requests, all thousand and one request has been granted. But it was 35% in the total amount of demand, not to mention how minor that was in the monetary amount, and then it should be noted that the government's efforts and willingness to make such an individual amount for certain projects, which will certainly enable then and bigger and bold projects to be 50% kuna, not as we said in this individual approvals were on average around 10 thousand 500 kuna. Our people are still eager for information. So perhaps this is also an opportunity to encourage, above all, both women and female entrepreneurs who are real masters in managing home budgets, that it is still open through the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts applications just to compete and to report their projects so that they can get either subsidies or favourable loans. So, by supporting this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on Promoting Small Economy Development, I believe that through this ministry, but also through other ministries, there will be simply one interresor one action to make obstructions, because they are unsuspecting proportions, so that they can be contained and that citizens can benefit from this bill as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6845	Thank you, too, dear colleague. The esteemed representative Stjepan Milinković reported to your presentation the correction of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6846	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, counterpart Anticevic-Marinovic said the current government was the undertaker of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. That's incorrect. Well, in these 300 entrepreneurial zones, about 40,000 employees worked or worked. It was difficult but there were positive examples as you said about female entrepreneurship and other positive ones. But it's interesting you always said you weren't going back to what was but that you were going to look into the future affirmatively. And we, of course, want every good thing to advance this important area, but not in the way it happens here in agriculture in many places, like in that ad of the funeral company, "You just die, and everything else is our concern." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6847	Thank you, too. The next one for a debate of 10 minutes was registered by a respected representative of Damir Rilje. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6848	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here is a proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Encouragement of Small Economy Development, which I would like to quote several here are my personal thoughts regarding this text of the proposal. So taking into account the harmonisation of Croatian legislation with European standards, of course, by respecting the fact that a huge number of here is mentioned 99% how, but this is obviously the correct data from small and medium-sized enterprises. As well as my local self-government, it is categorized to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises will certainly benefit greatly through EU programmes and a great incentive to use the appropriate funds intended for them. I would not, in my presentation, look at the need to attract precisely these funds because it is not to be explained, they should only use it to the greatest extent possible by applying as many programmes based on common strategies as possible, and in particular with the support of local levels but of course both county and state levels. Of course, EU funds assume funds that can be allocated in sufficient but possible size or may not always be able to ensure that the investment is realised. In this case it is expected to expect HAMAG Invest to ensure the possibility of investing small or medium-sized enterprises with appropriate guarantees and appropriate support. But I would refer here to the impact of the support of local self-government units towards entrepreneurs especially small and medium-sized. Although it does not rely directly on HAMAG Invest but certainly on the Ministry of Small and Medium Entrepreneurship. I think that ministry can be very helpful. The National Strategy to attract and encourage all forms of investment, as well as foreign direct investments, necessarily assumes the possibility of a variety of forms of public private partnership. These forms may be combined with the use of EU funds but are not necessarily conditional. Namely, the form of a public private partnership tends to be a concessional approval of the right to use... real estate, with the appropriate purpose and size of the investment, but unfortunately it is often not a good model because the investment is often amortised before it returns to the partner or unit of local self-government or other legal person, and during that time the same property cannot be used for perhaps the same benefit that would be precisely the unit of local self-government by purpose, although it can be conditioned on a spatial basis, but not always because it does not always correspond to the investor, so it must be found common interest, it cannot be used for that time. For example, which I can specifically look at, a simple but effective investment is the one that I bring out of my local self-government's life. In particular, it is a public private partnership with the replacement of property rights. In my unit of local self-government, and probably elsewhere, there are investors who would invest domestic and foreign, in infrastructure building, business building with us, for example, a particular market, a fishing area, underground garages and business catering facilities, of course all in line with EU standards, which we will ultimately have to have on our premises. There are idea projects of bidders that have received positive assessments both in terms of spatial planning documentation or conservative bases. The interest of the local community is exactly that kind of property, but the Public Private Partnership Agency for some reason, I don't know which one, can't recognize this form of public private partnership where a unit of local self-government and a small and medium-sized entrepreneur appear, so it can't pass as a project, such a form of public private partnership. And what's really about, the local self-government unit has no money for an entire investment worth this specifically between 23 and 25 million euros, but the city is investing an attractive position on the land on which they are organised... currently at the moment. The official assessment of the value of land has therefore been calculated by the authorised assessor and the tax administration assessor, as well as the value of the job that the local self-government unit would lose during the construction and construction works. It's the stake with which the city enters and requires equivalentness in part of the property. In particular, it would be a market, a fishing area, the first floor of a garage or a parking lot. The other part of the property should be entered by an investor who, by the way, is willing to donate active assets as insurance until the completion of the project. This is a faster way to make an investment. True, it would be nice to arrange the entire environment and such a building by the local self-government unit itself, but as I have already said, there is neither any possible credit responsibility of the local self-government unit. Of course, it is no longer a question of what standards will have to be like by joining the EU and how these content will have to look like, and I know this is not just my unit of local self-government. In addition, it is not certain that a full amount will be possible for the local self-government unit to be able to actually apply itself or, of course, by applying for an appropriate delayed time to realisation with EU funds. So here, it would also be very interesting if HAMAG had in some way an appropriate relationship and, together with the Public Private Partnership Agency, determined why not this kind of public private partnership in encouraging medium and small entrepreneurship could be ensured because in this way relations are ultimately clean, and actually the content for which we would have to wait very, very long or if we wanted to use them according to the classical concession model would actually have to buy the same space and we would go to additional costs. So on the one hand we'd have income, on the other hand we'd have expenses, and for now, we certainly have a space so arranged that we don't have standards. Otherwise, I support this law, and I ask that the possibility of therefore financing the projects be considered, this is exactly how I just cited it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6849	Thank you, too, Agent Damir Rilje. The next debate of 10 minutes, a respected representative, Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić, signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6850	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. So here's 2/3 of the total employees of the Croatian economy are from small and medium-sized enterprises. That is why, in today's times and crises and the rise in unemployment, it is certain that we must welcome and welcome every initiative to strengthen entrepreneurship, and I also support this law and all of what it brings to the attention of either the categorisation of micro, macro and medium enterprises, then the definition and size of the project, as well as the extension of the competence of the Croatian Small Economy Agency to the area is a very important area, which is the promotion and attraction of all forms of investment. It is also very important to coordinate such an agency in a vertical one that will actually help us to have a vertical connection from the units of local self-government, i.e. from that small entrepreneur to the ministry, to the state. We are probably all getting a variety of comments as parliamentarians, so we also have small entrepreneurs with their comments. It states that the key problems are insolvency or insolvency, inability to collect claims, whether they are deadlines in the invoice, whether they are executive proceedings. So it's such a policy for an entrepreneur to make a invoice, but he has to pay the VAT within a month, but the claims continue. For many, this is unsustainable, which is why such corporate small companies have been closed. However, the government has so far taken various measures to strengthen the economy and small entrepreneurship, so we hope that it will continue to work on, that it will work on a business-relieving model in terms of resolving the liquidity and insolvency of small entrepreneurs and, in particular, on supervision of unpaid accounts, on encouraging the payment of the same ones because, of course, there is no reduction in the insolvency. Now I would like to say one more thing since I come from local self-government about the self-initiative models we are working in the city of Dubrovnik and that is, of course, in terms of helping, i.e. implementation and social programmes and in terms of increasing jobs. Through our development agency we implement projects that are actually encouraging for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, through information, i.e. education and writing and implementation of projects funded by European funds. We help young entrepreneurs and innovators to realise and commercialise their innovations and entrepreneurial projects. We created a factory of ideas, i.e. entrepreneurship incubator, it is a project to encourage young beginner entrepreneurs up to 35 years of age in such a way that we gave them free business space, then they have legal accounting marketing services and, of course, an educational and advisory assistance programme for finding financial resources for their projects. In this way, this so-called. "incubated companies" get the support they really need at the beginning of their work to start their activities without any major technical and administrative obstacles, or costs, and they also operate in one atmosphere surrounded by other companies in creation and the agency as an advisory body. It is very important that these very beginners who have perspective ideas because we are constantly saying that we will just support such that support for the development of the desired activities is provided, that is to say, in the local community, we are actually working on conditions for additional employment. Right now, in our business incubator, we have 8 tenants of companies, and in progress, we are now actually in the process of renovating office spaces. And that's how we work to expand that incubator of ours to four more new companies. At the moment when such companies create conditions for further employment or for possible employment, we are again here as a city participating with incentives for employment. The amount of each month's support for employment is 2500 kuna and that is, of course, from our city budget. For this year we have secured about a million kunas in our city budget for such incentives. Our agency is of course to inform entrepreneurs and through newsletters it is a list of current competitions and public calls of the ministry, then we have various brochures, information brochures, and open-door days mentioned today by the minister. We also have capillary support in terms of subsidies, these are incentives by financial means. Here at the moment our agency is implementing the days of open doors entrepreneurial impulses in 2012 when it is actually receiving interested entrepreneurs and craftsmen and talking to them. We also made one questionnaire investigating the reasons for applying for such a competition, i.e. as a reason for any difficulties in the application. So actually on the spot you get information about users, that is, the conditions of the competition which will, of course, be obtained will actually be one valuable database from that two-way communication. I would also refer to what I have given the amendment, which is that there is a sentence in this law that may need to be complemented, which is that this law allows coordination with the county development agencies I would also extend to local and regional self-government development agencies, given that all major cities have their own development agencies and that it is very important that good co-operation goes between the county agencies and local self-government agencies, especially through which it could be achieved well through HAMAG INVEST in order to actually make this cooperation better done in order to improve cooperation. I can also say that today we have an increasing number of entrepreneurs looking for a place under the sun, or looking for a system of help, and in this way I don't think that this is actually some magic wand or we can expect a magic wand, but this is a legislative framework for helping small entrepreneurs, this is, in my opinion, the introduction of structures into the whole system. So I support this law, and I'm going to say the same thing that this is, and it's all the way out of the crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6851	Madam Representative Ruža Tomasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6852	Thank you very much, Mr. President, the honourable representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Here's just a few segments about small and medium entrepreneurship. So if in Croatia a small and medium-sized enterprise accounts for more than 99% of the total number of economic operators, then today one of the topics should be to simplify small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to at least work out paperwork faster and easier to reach EU funds. Does the government want to be a friend or even a partner if a small entrepreneur has a great project and insufficient money or knowledge about EU funds? Will entrepreneurs or craftsmen still have to be members of the Chamber of Commerce or crafts, even though they have little or no use for them? Or, for example, on the islands where small craftsmen who barely survive pay large bills for pouring water, and there's not even a sewer. So I'm wondering if they're paying for the rain that's pouring into their tanks? And other things that make their lives really difficult? According to January this year, of 236 thousand registered companies, there are 74 thousand in the blockade. 28 thousand companies have been blocked for over a year. ... that debt reprogramming should be discussed, not carried out. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In Croatia today, some 2,000 executions are carried out on a day that is legal as physical. There was a small business lady yesterday who didn't pay her subscription to HRT for three months because she just barely survived. Its purpose is to perform, but not for three months or 258 kuna, but for each month separately. And the fee to a public notary or a lawyer is 700 to 900 kuna. It doesn't matter if it's worth 200 or 2,000 kuna. It turns out that in Croatia it is now the most worthwhile to be a lawyer or a public notary. And in the end, I hope that you will really be friends and partners to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and craftsmen, not to protect large capital as it has been all these years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6853	Thank you, Mrs. Tomasic. Ms. Ivana Posavec-Krivec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6854	Thank you, Mr. President. Representatives of the proposing, colleagues and colleagues. The basis of economic policy as a pillar of development and promotion of economic activities in the function of economic growth is the establishment of a legally regulated regulatory system. On the other hand, under the economic process policy, it is primarily meant by the activities which, within this set framework, affect the structure and flow of economic processes. It could be said in a simplified way that the economic policy lays down the basics while encouraging the economy is more focused on instruments and is trying to realise established political bases. Examples for the first area refer to the government's clear intention to establish a separate ministry within the government, the entrepreneurship and crafts ministry, because of the importance of economic development. This fact is not surprising if we take into account several times the fact that in Croatia, small and medium enterprises account for more than 99% of the total number of economic operators, which is also the case in the European environment. Furthermore, through today's amendments to legislative measures, the aim is to create a competitive environment for strong entrepreneurship growth. And this strong growth of entrepreneurship as a vital component of the total Croatian economy. Strengthening entrepreneurship in the Republic of Croatia is possible through the withdrawal of new investments, for which the law also creates preconditions. The competitiveness of our economy, and in this case entrepreneurship is important to strengthen precisely in the year ahead, which ensures the opening of new markets by entering the EU. It is not surprising, therefore, that these legal bases are also in line with EU legislation and recommendations from the Commission, and with the aim of improving the consistency and effectiveness of the targeted medium and small entrepreneurship policy, while at the same time enabling better use of support mechanisms through programmes. This law also extended the responsibilities of HAMAG to the area of promotion and attraction of all forms of investment. HAMAG Invest becomes a promoter and promoter of new investment projects in the high added value sector and the highlighted export orientation of our new job creators and the promotion of even regional development of the Republic of Croatia. HAMAG Invest has the task of directing and preparing Croatian entrepreneurship as competitive in the common European market. What pleases me, the law particularly stresses the importance of a coordinated policy of actively attracting new investments with the development agencies of units of local self-government or regional self-government. Unfortunately, I have to note that local economic promotion is a voluntary task in Croatia based on the authority of the municipality or city. Local incentives for the economy are listed in the area of existential concern and thus represents one of the key parts of local policy. Therefore, I think that the key to success should be exactly in coordination with another intervention level, which refers precisely to the immediate local incentive of the economy. The aim of the local economy is primarily to improve living conditions at local and regional level, as well as to contribute to ensuring and building living standards. If this principle is concrete, then we can notice that there are clear goals behind it, objectives to encourage the economy in terms of ensuring existing jobs and, of course, the creation of new jobs. Strengthening the financial power of local self-government units and creating local preconditions for the real development and equipment of entrepreneurship zones, entrepreneurship centres and business incubators as better starting positions for the development of a competitive economy. And it is finally necessary to strengthen domestic companies against the crisis and indifference to the tax measures for which this government has shown its readiness and responsibility. The economic crisis shows that economic policy and responsibility for sustainable economic development are not only the task of the state, but also the direct action of local self-government units is also needed. the first meaning of the crisis and the loss of jobs, which directly means the existential issue of the population, is felt right at the local level. I therefore see a particular importance through the proposal of this law which connects various levels from local to regional and through ensuring the coordination of all of them in the creation of a basic platform for quality implementation of measures that will later come from a series of sublegal acts and I believe that they follow after the adoption and adoption of this law. Today, here in the Croatian Parliament, the resolute minister has repeatedly stressed that the Croatian government has the way to know and lead the country on the way out of the crisis. And I think it's the last moment for Croatia to go that way. Entrepreneurial impulses, incentive measures programme, guarantee programme, regional development agencies programme, as well as local small and medium investment cycle promotion programmes are certainly measures that will give positive results within a relatively short period of time, which is important for our country. From the above, it is clear that we no longer have a second to lose. Our economy loses the battle with difficult business circumstances, loses the battle with growth and fear of bankruptcy and job shutdown and deep indifference. At this point, it is extremely important to maintain trust in the ability of our economic potential but to show and prove a high degree of responsibility for the future of the country. I deeply believe that by adopting these amendments to the law, we are destroying a number of administrative barriers and we are setting a clear path for new investments in the Republic of Croatia, which certainly means faster economic growth in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6855	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6856	I thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. It is certainly necessary to welcome the adoption of this law of provisions allowing for the extension of the number of economic operators who will be able to be users of the laws of the prescribed measures and incentives. In the current economic situation, when a number of businessmen are trying to keep themselves above the surface, an increase in the number of those who will be able to take advantage of the opportunities provided by this law is certainly good news for them. The importance of amending the law is obviously an emphasis on investment, not only in Article 4 extending the objectives of small economy development and encouraging investment in entrepreneurship but also symbolically, by adding the name of the Croatian Small Economy Agency and the word investment. Such an approach shows that priorities are recognised. In the secular prigorje area from which craftsmanship came and small entrepreneurship has always been an important segment of the economy. There is a tradition of small entrepreneurs, some of whom have run a family business for over 80 years, but in talking to them that I have had the opportunity to hear that in the last two or three years, no production crafts have been opened in the Councils. The situation is not much better in the rest of Croatia, because 35% of total entrepreneurship belongs to the trade sector, and only 13.2% is the processing industry. That is why we can all agree and I am convinced that we will find it difficult to move forward without opening new jobs, without opening jobs in the manufacturing sector, especially exports. The new jobs clearly do not exist without investments, so insisting on investment is a step in the right direction. It is important to preserve existing jobs, but it is more important to enable new investments, the flow of new capital into the economic circulation, as well as the flow of new ideas. This is also recognised here in the introduction of a provision that extends the Agency's activity to both promotion and attract investment in entrepreneurship and to cooperate with international bodies responsible for promotion and investment activities. We often have opportunities from investors to listen to the emphasis on problems with slow and complicated bureaucracy and even clashing with corruption in the bureaucratic apparatus. The solution to this problem will certainly contribute to the Agency's competence as well as to the coordination of the implementation of investment projects and co-ordination with the county development agencies. This strengthens the proactive role of the agency, it gets the role of its kind of catalyst, which I believe will be of great benefit in implementing the projects. Therefore, these amendments should be adopted and also supported by the proposal to amend and supplement the laws on the day of their publication in the "National Journal". The importance of this segment of the economy is great, although it is small entrepreneurship. This sector accounts for 57% of total employees, 44% of total GDP and 60% of RS exports. So there's nothing to wait for here. On the contrary, since these amendments and additions do not impose new obligations or dominate certain rights, but the position of economic operators improves vacatio legis... it is not necessary here. I would take advantage of this opportunity to point out, as a rep from a crafts and entrepreneurial neighborhood, a few things that are plagued by small businessmen, which they have pointed out to me. Many of the difficulties they face, the economic crisis has almost affected them all. First, of course, it's the problem of the scope of the job. The decline in economic activity and living standards clearly reduces the ability of product placements, especially small businesses. They are difficult to achieve with their products entry into large trade chains, especially those of foreign ownership. I've had the chance to hear from small businessmen that some of them won't even report to the incentive contests that this ministry will give because they're afraid they won't be able to sell what they produce because of the drop in demand and inability to pay. Therefore, as a suggestion, I would recommend that the Agency consider action on the demand side as well. All the measures referred to in this law are although very good, essentially aimed at creating offers, opening new or increasing current production capacities. However, foreign-owned banks often look more favourably at producers from their countries of origin, so many import products can buy 12, 36 or more of the war, even unambiguously. Rarely, a small businessman has the ability to sell his products under these conditions which automatically makes him far less competitive. One of the measures that could act is to provide, for example, active support to facilitate the lending of placements and sales of products and services of small-scale operators. In this way, the Agency could also play a proactive role in cooperation with the commercial banks with the aim of lending small business products. Although there are some measures in this direction within the framework of the HBOR giving a proactive role to the Agency and in this segment could only help. The problem of access to the market could also be mitigated by creating conditions in coordination with the authorities of the state administration, the regional and local self-government for the integration of small-economic operators in order to take place on the market, which falls within the incentive measures already established by the programme provided for in the law, but the implementation of this measure is not left to anyone in charge. The implementation of this measure would also propose as one of the activities of the Agency set out in Article 13. Finally, although not within the reach of this law, I must warn of another weight that makes it difficult for small business owners to warn me about. This is the import of non-quality products questionable, even health and those that due to their mechanical properties are dangerous to health. Some EU certificates-free products are still imported into Croatia according to the information I received from them. For example, furniture manufacturers have pointed out that they have knowledge that cheap furniture is being imported by recycling furniture with harmful and banned components on the EU market such as formaldehydes, some heavy metals, lead and zinc. So in the morning list, I found information that the state inspectorate last year did two major actions to check the quality of furniture on the Croatian market and out of these two large checks of 40 entities that were included in the check even 95 was incorrect and applying EU regulations would have to be withdrawn from the market. Our owners are meant to be more competitive or to produce dangerous, cheaper furniture or try to turn to EU exports, and our domestic market is to leave our citizens with cheap and dangerous furniture from third countries. As soon as possible, ensuring compliance with EU certification obligations for all import products would solve such matters, as well as the introduction of larger and stricter controls on imported goods. We have an obligation to protect our citizens primarily from endangering health that can be caused by importing dangerous products, and thus we protect our economies from unfair competition. So I'd like to ask you from the Ministry to do something in inter-reservative cooperation in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6857	Thank you, Agent Pandek. We still have two individual discussions. First up is Mrs. Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6858	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear ministers, members of the ministry, colleagues and colleagues. I support the categorisation of micro, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in terms of annual transport and overall activity as well as the categorisation of investments themselves in line with EU recommendations, and in order to better use the support mechanism through EU programmes and to reduce the risk of distortion of competition as you say. The question, however, is whether this law refers to encouraging entrepreneurship in the private or social sector? According to the European Commission's recommendation of 6.05.2003, it includes universities or non-profit research centres, institutional investors including regional development funds and independent local authorities with an annual budget of less than 10 million euros and less than 5,000 inhabitants. Encouraging and developing entrepreneurship is well imagined as such, but it is important to help everyone develop equally in entrepreneurship. The concept of entrepreneurship itself and its perception did not live the way it should be in the conscience of the citizens here in Croatia. According to these criteria, the municipality is also an entrepreneur, as I have already stated, with less than 5,000 inhabitants, and the entrepreneur is also the craftsman who has 2, 3 or 10 employees. I will point to only one problem in such a qualification of entrepreneurship. Projects for local self-government units have been carried out by certified consultants of county development agencies most often or have been hired by private consultants paid from municipal or city budgets. A good business plan in most cases guarantees and receives incentives. There are private entrepreneurs, craftsmen and micro companies in an uninvited position. In fact, a craftsman must seek out a business plan which is such a basis for obtaining incentive funds and the basis for all further entrepreneurial events of the consultant himself and of course pay it by means of his own resources. Although it is recommended that the consultant be paid by the percentage of the incentives received and the realisation of the project itself, unfortunately this did not live because these consultants are also legal private entities that are doing the project in order to achieve their profits or income. HAMAG has co-financed and obtained a consultant certificate and perhaps we can view it as encouraging entrepreneurship. In Croatia, we have 98 consultants for a small economy and 23 authorised consultants for EU projects. Of these 23 consultants, 12 work in development agencies, and 11 are private and they have a price as well. What does it mean to strengthen Hamag's cooperation with the county development agencies? If this means better information for small businesses, mostly craftsmen, bringing business projects closer to them through these same development agencies is more than good. If these little craftsmen still have to do all this themselves and still pay for it then it's not good. These county development agencies are financed precisely from the work of these small craftsmen in one large part and it would be good for them to be partners. Unfortunately, most often business entities are pure copy-passes that are charged each time as a new business plan. County development agencies should at least propose good and quality consultants to micro-entrepreneurs. It's supposed to be one of her assignments. Article 21 states that units of local and regional self-government may set up a legal person or another legal person to carry out those tasks in accordance with the programme, the annual programme implementation plan and their programmes and plans. If new legal entities are established, will they be managers and those craftsmen who don't invest 20 million kunas? A total of 25 measures by the business impulse of the grants shall be allocated to the maximum amounts, in respect of which cities and municipalities will be able to obtain up to 4 million kunas if they sell or lease land below the market price to entrepreneurs. Three million kunas are planned for beginner entrepreneurs and three million kunas for young people in entrepreneurship. It is precisely because of these 6 million kunas, therefore for beginners and young people in entrepreneurship, that these small entrepreneurs need support in drawing up their business plans. If an entrepreneur, and I think of a private entrepreneur, invests his money in opening new jobs, which ultimately brings units of local and regional self-government budgetary revenue, then why wouldn't this same self-government do so with its human resources logistics, which, as such, has been charged by the state or some local budget, serve these very small entrepreneurs in the realisation of their business ventures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6859	Thank you, too. And in an individual debate in the end, Mr. Representative Damir Byce, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6860	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, colleagues and colleagues. We have a bill of law before us that I think may be small by volume, but large by importance. However, we will see this when it comes into force and when the first results of that law are seen. I will say that, of course, there are many problems in Croatia right now, but the economy is what bothers most ordinary people. At a time when most economic analysts, bankers, but also international institutions foresee an actual negative rate of GDP for Croatia, when the government announces a positive VAT rate for 2012, of course every law that comes from one of the resolute ministries dealing with the economy, and that is also the Ministry of Finance and Economy and Tourism, but of course that represents 99% of the total business entities in the economy requires special attention. I hope, of course, this... By the way, Government, be more accurate than international institutions, it will be good for all of us regardless of whether we are in opposition or in power. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When we talk about the law he is, you should say some positive elements. So the law changes the name of the agency first. And I have to say that Hamag Invest sounds better than Hamag himself. I must say, of course, he predicts in himself that I would like to say everything about the Croatian economy, meaning regional agencies, local agencies, but also the state agency and therefore make one joint package. However, I will say that many times the law promotes, coordinates, attracts, so the words that are positive are used, but they do not really see what are the competences of the agency that we are changing the structure at this point and we are giving them new opportunities to say. Two things are actually the most important and... Not a guide when we talk about this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It seems to me, which is what the minister himself said, but many here today in the Parliament, is attracting foreign investment and Croatia's entry into the EU and using actually potential... EU funds. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These two things, therefore, attract foreign capital and take advantage of that opportunity, I think they're crucial. And here, when we talk about it, we should give maybe a little better explanation. Because when we talk about attracting foreign capital, promoting what has been put into place as one of the most important changes in the Agency's jurisdiction, then we need to see who does all this. Will this work, for example, the Croatian Chamber of crafts which continues to have its own representation in a number of countries, whether the attaches to our embassies or advisers will continue to work independently, whether the agency will have the opportunity, whether there is any need to establish its branches here indicated as one option in Croatia or abroad and how we will coordinate all this effort. Do we need to know that interests don't have to be common in terms of what they represent? Whether the agency will represent only a small and medium-sized economy and craftsmanship or represent all of Croatia. If this is a black thread of leadership, then you should see what money is available, how the issue of alignment with existing agencies, representations and all those that exist in Europe and the world will be resolved, and in what way we will end up doing it. The other thing is the EU structural funds, I think that the billions of euros that will be available to Croatia from 2013 are one big reasonable chance that projects that must be made in order for these funds to be withdrawn will not automatically come. They must be presented somewhere and I think this agency HAMAG Invest is one of these options, but it is not visible how we will make the most of it. And lastly, I'm going to say that I might suggest that we still be more flexible in the definition of micro, macro, and other things. In fact, 250 employees are a lot for Croatia but I agree some have already said that there may be a situation where income is small and the number of employees is large. It's in those... like textiles and others who then don't fall into the ability to get support from a state that can make things harder for them, so I think I should especially look at it. As far as this law is concerned, I hope that it will bring a certain result and these two things that I have mentioned as key that will prove to be good practice for the Croatian economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6861	Thank you very much. At the end of the address of Mr. Maras. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6862	Thank you very much. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of thanking everyone for a constructive debate, proposals, amendments that have arrived which we will study for the next two days until the vote and I believe that certain things will be accepted. Here is just a brief comment at the end of the law or individual debates, perhaps this last of fellow Bajs related to the size of the company where the law defines that if the company has at least 250 employees and then has a tentative or income or value of the assets. So if the company has 250 employees or 400 employees and incomes less than 50m euros and assets less than 43m euros, this is a small or medium-sized company depending on which category it falls. So she can have a thousand employees unless she guarantees with income and property that she falls under the character of a large company she won't be a big company. So very rarely there will be a case where a company will have 500 employees, of course other than companies in problems that need to be restructured which should be significantly recapitalised. But then these are not the companies applying for incentives for support because these companies need significant investments. It's like maybe the question here I'll mention here Jadrankamen, Dalmatia it's such a company. But such companies don't usually apply until the situation with them is fixed for any programs. That state should react in another way. I am convinced that we will find a model to protect these companies that are in big asset problems and a large number of employees, and if they do not work at all or have small incomes. And these are the exceptions that the state has to solve in a different way. If the property is large, the number of people are really large companies and do not fall under the definition of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. And since this law essentially extends the base of the situation is better than it was yesterday for users who will be able to achieve support. And that is why this law, when it would reduce it to the most basic concepts, is defined to increase the base of users of the incentives that we give, to guarantee better passing of information and coordination related to investment in entrepreneurship, to guarantee a better distribution of support through the Small Economy Agency, to guarantee better cooperation and to create a basis for better cooperation with European institutions with, for example, the European Investment Fund, where you have the opportunity to see now, two days ago, that a Croatian bank has signed a quality agreement with the Fund where it guarantees for the return of part of the funds where it allows microcredit up to 25 000 euros, for crafts without those common insurances that have been so far, meaning real estate and everything our entrepreneurs have to cover essentially these loans that are very difficult to obtain. We now have a prerequisite for including the Small Economy Agency in cooperation with such institutions in obtaining more favourable guarantees for craftsmen who have worked very hard on the market so far. I will also repeat once again to monitor the agency's normative work I expect this agency to have more guarantees for the next year, more programmes than the agency had in the previous period by 3.4 years. And we'll be able to track that in the report. Analyze what I said. I am convinced by the new guarantee programme, with the increase in funds that the Agency has for a small economy and which will have next Friday meant two days from billions to 2 billion kuna that there will be a significant increase in our entrepreneurs' monitoring of the guarantees issued and most importantly that these guarantees will be valid, that they will be valid. Because you can count on your fingers and I don't even know if I'd be on the fingers of one hand at all, maybe there's no relevant Croatian bank that's directly with the Small Economy Agency that develops certain programs rather than always going through HBOR. What it's saying is that guarantees weren't high-quality, that no one saw them as something that was the basic meaning of the agency guaranteed to support an entrepreneur who wasn't capitalised enough to make it easier to get the funds and not have to have 150% of the real estate loans or some insurances that most often our entrepreneurs don't have. And that is why I am convinced that this law will also help us to have better and more support and guarantees and more investment in entrepreneurship. This agency must be proactive, someone must have said come out and regionally, so not everything in Zagreb is happening. I believe that the agency and its work, of course, does not mean that now there will be 200 people employed new ones, but it must also appear in Dalmatia and in Slavonia, Primorje, Istria as one contact where people can communicate more easily and find the right information for anything. My colleague Tyrelli has well noticed certain things that we have already changed in projects and support-related programmes, it's about the Entrepreneurial Impulse. It's quite common here, and you know what it's like, when you have 3,000 aids, when it's small values, when you have a limited number of people, when you don't have a monitoring effect, then sometimes it's very difficult to see what happened with that money. It's very important that we reduce those professional callers to these kind of competitions, which means that they come in, and there were those, just to get back, then next year with another firm, all in the same scheme. So we want to monitor the effect, we want to see where the money ends and what we have at the end of it, and for example this year, I've removed the possibility that only on the basis of a business plan can the money be made because it's really copy-past. You had only a variant of changing the company's name, another company, the same project and account of course for one service or for one document that could be circulated between 10, 20 companies that were essentially one and the same project elaborated. This means we will not and from now on business plans and these costs will be verified only and paid only for those where they serve at banks or at HAMAG for obtaining loans and guarantees, meaning where there really is a cost not to do... study of an estimate of a particular property if it is necessary for a loan guarantee and the banks charge, HBOR charges that it can then be refunded and paid. This is how I'd like to do it, now I'm going to work on 30 pages and look for 25, 30 thousand kunas no longer going to work. So that's where we change certain things and change in the future. Of course the experience is the mother of knowledge, some things we may have missed to change this year, yet time was limited, 30 days from the budget we have brought a new programme. We couldn't change everything but next year we'll have an analysis of what we've done with it, how many jobs are opened, how many new investments, how effective it is on the budget to do one quality study or how these projects are evaluated in cooperation with the EU, what standards are like in EU countries so that we can have an even better quality programme next year and how we can say what we have achieved because this is the goal of everything. Giving support for support will no longer work, Croatia is not a rich enough country to give support in a way important to share, and the effect is not important. Unfortunately, it used to be the only rule. And now for one more thing, you also mentioned a beginner's entrepreneur, or a youth in entrepreneurship. These are projects we need to support further. The problem with these projects is that in general 80 to 85% of companies do not survive for a year, especially when start-ups and here we tend to invest funds in certain services that would be provided to entrepreneurs during the incubated period. From market information research, accounting where we will try through one logistics support to create something that will not only be money but what someone will have to pay as a company, and like this we will have some lasting value and we will be able to help more companies. So we also want to see here how you would say when you give a hundred support if 85 ends up in a company that won't survive I think it's a better effect to invest in something that is permanent and which can be used by a larger number of young entrepreneurs in Croatia. But of course we need to promote both start-ups and, especially in innovation, new technologies because it is usually said in the EU that out of 100% of small and medium-sized enterprises, 33% of them usually don't survive the first year, the other 33% doesn't survive for two, three years, but those who survive carry the economy and create a new value, and that is why it's important that we have as many projects as possible even though they don't have 100% impact. In the end, here's a few more notes. A colleague, Marelic, noted well that we do not have a situation on the islands and business is always much harder than it is in continental Croatia where you do not have any costs on the islands. What we can promise that there will always be programmes and incentives, there is now no colleagues Buric, and for areas of special state concern and for islands, means where Croatia's interest is to develop regionally equally, that all parts of Croatia are covered by certain support, of course not by modeling, just give it to give because there is no purpose. If we're talking about entrepreneurship zones, there's no point in in Slavonia if there's a few zones within a 20-mile radius we're going 5 km away again to another municipality to re-incentive the zone, and in these first two there are no projects. We need to see where there's potential, where it can be realized, and I say again, everyone can answer, we just need to be much more efficient in what we give. Thank you at last for supporting the law. I'm sure we'll do everything we say and make it happen. This law is one of those that will create an assumption in Croatia to make economic growth this year regardless of analysts. However, most analysts were doing projections on the basis of last year's decline and a decrease in investment, a small number of investments. So I am convinced that these trends will turn and that this year we will have at least a small economic growth three years later for the first time that we will create the foundations for the next years to be successful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6863	Thank you very much. ... have a correction to an incorrect quote, but you will not be able to react to it according to our Rules of Procedure. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Ms. Representative Natalija Martincevic. Here you go, correcting an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6864	I'd just like to correct the minister in this area when he said there's a small number of companies that won't be able to fit into these criteria to exercise their right to incentives. Namely, I could now count at least 10 companies from the Varazdin County who, based on these criteria, will not be able to achieve incentives. Namely, they have less income than 50m euros, have less than 43m euros, and have more than 250 employees. It is therefore precisely companies in the processing industry that will not be able to achieve incentives based on this combination of meeting the criteria. So I'd like to ask you to reconsider that one more time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6865	Thank you. I'm instructing the minister to tell the press or to clear up directly with you. Thank you very much. The debate on the text of the law is over. We'll vote most likely on Friday when the conditions are met. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you once again. We continue to work, we vote on legal proposals and reports that we have discussed during the week. We will plead by raising our hands because of the still uncoordinated technique. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Encouragement of Small Economy Development, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 60. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić and representative Dražko Pandek. I ask Mr. Drazen Prost Deputy Minister of Entrepreneurship to come and declare first on the amendment of counsel Tatjana Šimac-Bonacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6867	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of Parliament's attorneys and MPs. Here, allow me a few words regarding amendments to the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Encouragement of Small Economy Development. As regards the amendments submitted by MP Tatjana Šimac-Bonacic, the amendment is accepted in full and becomes an integral part of the law. As regards the amendments submitted by MP Drazenko Pandek, we accept him in part in point 15, which is related to the integration of small-economic operators for market performance.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6868	Just a minute. Only for this amendment to be read first. Stay here. So, the amendment of Madam Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonacic was accepted. Now on the second, so it's the amendment of Agent Drazen Pandek. Please make it a little louder.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6869	So as far as the amendment to Drazen Pandek is concerned, it is partially accepted. It shall be accepted in the part of point 15, which is related to the integration of small-scale operators to the market, while point 8 is not accepted as referred to in that point. In particular, according to the applicant’s proposal and in the light of the Agency’s delirious nature and the type of business that it deals with the provision of support to facilitate the lending and sale of products and services, it is possible to obtain through an issued guarantee for credit with a business bank or other business entities or under b) through the national lending support granted. In particular, the type of guarantees granted and the intensity and structure of the allocation of national support are defined by the single programmes of the Agency or the operational plan for the promotion of entrepreneurship and crafts for 2012. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has submitted a proposal for new HAMAG Invest Guarantee Programmes which, as a specific type of guarantee programme, also state the safeguards which, by their nature, influence demand from customers towards domestic entrepreneurs, and facilitate the placement and sale of products and services to the entrepreneurs themselves. The intention is for the Ministry and the Agency to include, in future, a guarantee for the lending and sale of products and services as one of the forms of legal guarantee. Accordingly, we believe that the already mentioned activities of the Agency are sufficient to implement this type of incentive described by the applicant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6870	Thank you very much. I would now ask Mr. Representative Drazen Pandek to plead on this part of the amendment that has not been accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6871	It's very good and very well explained. I thank and withdraw part of the amendment in that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6872	Thank you very much. Part of that amendment has been withdrawn. I am concluding the debate and voting on the final draft of the law. Please, who's in? I said it's still not consistent. We won't talk about the past we said. I'll give you an explanation if you want very soon. Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that most 80 votes in favour of, 24 against, 4 abstentions have been passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Encouragement of Small Economy Development in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted. We move to the next item of the agenda, which is - Final proposal of the Law establishing the Investment and Competitiveness Agency, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 59 The proposal is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the emergency procedure as we know the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Economy, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and the Committee on Environmental Protection. You've received reports. Would the proposing representative like to explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Minister of Economy Tamara Obradovic-Mazal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6874	Thank you, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The Government points out the Final Proposal of the Law establishing the Investment and Competitiveness Agency, an agency which, on a broad platform of inter-resor cooperation on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Croatia at operational level, has a complex and responsible task of operational implementation of direct contact, direct work to encourage investment of legal persons in different sectors in the Republic of Croatia, direct provision of operational support, hence technical support, support for investors on the ground at all stages of their project, i.e. the implementation of their investment, but also responsibility for monitoring that part of the process that takes place after the completion of the investment cycle itself, namely its sustainability, the way it is implemented and the way it is implemented. The Agency also has the responsibility and task at one operational and technical level, together with all other government resolutions to promote Croatia, so the Republic of Croatia as a desirable investment destination in selected sectors, in targeted sectors, sectors that are of strategic importance and, of course, through the network both diplomatic and network infrastructure and the Chamber of Commerce, but also other offices, other institutions maintain direct contact and stress Croatia as an investment destination. It is also intended to support the development and application of new financial mechanisms that can arise in the upcoming period of support for the economy as well as those already in place. In the previous debate, we heard from the presentation, i.e. from the presentation of Minister Maras, examples of funds for economic co-operation. Also related to the operational and technical level, the future task of the Agency is to communicate with regions, communicate with local self-government authorities in the section relating to the possibilities of an investment specialisation at all levels. So, at territorial level, at the level of units of local self-government in identifying which potentials of maximum benefit to achieve some competitive advantages we have in the territory of Croatia as regards the categorisation of priorities, categorisation of the sector, i.e. by directing investors through sectors to certain parts of the Republic of Croatia. But, of course, the part relating to the networking of scientific, intellectual capital, capital relating to scientific and research development which can be in the function of industry and in the production function for which, of course, in the face of investors, it is necessary to explain and carry out operationally and offer, therefore, that range of support and incentives that investors in Croatia can achieve through the application of innovation in technology and production. The Agency for Competitiveness and Investments will also have the task of dealing with projects that are under way that are often highlighted in a media way. So, identification where it's stuck, the identification of communication at the very level of implementation is also the task of the agency itself. Ensure that the investor feels comfortable in his investment cycle, ensure that communication is present, that, of course, the whole cycle and the whole process is accompanied by understanding, facilitating the investor to start and continue the investment cycle and in that segment of the investor in a safe way follow through the complete implementation of the project. I would add that the recognition of the necessity at this time in Croatia of the existence of such a central body, or any form that will take care of investors regardless of whether they are from Croatia, whether they are from some other countries, so the money itself has neither colour nor race, is also a point identified by 27 EU Member States. As you know, on behalf of the EU, the European Commission delegation presented to the Government a series of points that, in the next term of office, the Government should pay due attention to, and which EU Member States recognise as investment barriers. In this part of the Member State, through a delegation, they detect an investment institution or similar form as a necessity recognised at the moment where "responsibility for the investment area and the investment climate must be defined", there must be a body to promote and protect investments, a body of some form which is naturally left to freedom of the Republic of Croatia to choose, but must be established as a permanent institution to have full support for all relevant factors in Croatia from ministries to municipalities. So, in verticals from the executive authority to the body of the local self-government unit. Its tasks emphasize further the European Commission's delegations must extend beyond the investment cycle after the investment has been made to help existing investors maintain and expand their work. We believe that the proposal of the Law establishing agencies for the one hand attracts investments, and on the other hand, to offer those measures that will maintain and improve Croatian competitiveness, except as a target of the problem which is evident, a problem which is verbalised by both EU Member States but, of course, also corresponds to the current creation and investment potential that must be realised which must be helped to be realised, that this is how we respond to this identified need. At the same time, I would like to thank you for the debate we held last week on a series of committees. I thank you for the opinions that have been shared in the debate on committees that will certainly help to improve this text until the debate is concluded and in the vote itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6875	Thank you very much. On behalf of the board, do the representatives of the board, the working bodies want to take the floor? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate, so let's get to the club debate first. In the name of the SDP club, as we can see, Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec came forward. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6876	Thank you very much. Mr. President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In the SDP club, we appreciate that it is good to establish a specialised state public institution with public powers that will promote the competitiveness of the domestic sector as well as investment activity. In recent years, due to the crisis and inadequate measures to eliminate the crisis in Croatia, a significant drop in employment has been recorded and investments have been almost at a symbolic level. According to the State Statistics Institute in 2007 as the last year before the financial crisis and after the economic crisis, Croatia had an average annual employment of a million 516 workers, and in 2011, the latest data published averaged a million 479 thousand, representing a decline of about 38 thousand average annual employees or 2.5%. At the same time, unemployment, which according to the Employment Office data and the latest 2007 amounted to 254 thousand, and at the end of March this year, 339 thousand, which is an increase of more than 85 thousand or 3.3%. A low employment rate of around 40% of the working-age population, remember that EU countries tend to reach as much as 70% of the working-age population, is a huge problem because the number of unemployed and pensioners exceeds the number of employees which creates a long-term problem of maintaining a pension system and other areas such as the health system and social care system. Croatia lacks investment activity, especially investments in new technology, new jobs. Investments in long-term assets have been constantly stagnating and have been falling significantly lately. For example. 2009 for 15%, 2010 by as much as 25%, and in the first 9 months after the published data for last year for a further 9%. In part, this is due to the fact that entrepreneurs are more cautiously going into investment during the crisis, but in a good way this is due to an inadequate economic policy of the state which has almost completely ignored industrial policy, and in this sector, unemployment has been mostly recruited, i.e. an inadequate education system that does not follow the needs of the labour market. Therefore, the investment policy must go in two directions. The first to maintain existing employment is the easiest thing to do through municipal and social infrastructure, and now plans are being made in the government in this sector through a public-private investment or ownership system, and the second more long-term and secure direction is to create new jobs and investment in the real sector. As far as competitiveness is concerned, the competitiveness of one economy is influenced by a number of factors. For example. The Luzan Institute for Management and Development in its 2011 World Competitiveness Yearbook estimates 59 leading world economies and already 6 times in the ranking includes Croatia. Last year, Croatia took an earlier 58th place on the scale. This institute estimates 20 of these competitiveness factors and it is interesting to analyse how we are ranked by some of them. Our best factors are prices, health, environment, education, social environment and international trade, and the worst judge us through management, institutions, domestic economy, labour market values, employment, scientific infrastructure, business legislation and foreign investment. From inflation prices, Croatia is ranked at 7th position, with favourable positions for renting business spaces. From the social environment is a very favourable ranking of income distribution equality where we are placed 10th place as well as an indicator of gender equality. Productivity and efficiency have been significantly improved, but due to a significant reduction in unemployment. In the context of public finances are very poor polling public finances management assessments, we are ranked 53rd, avoiding tax payments at the last 59th place and financing the pension system at 56th place. Foreign investment has been made worse by a significant reduction in the inflow of foreign direct investment in 2010, as well as a very poor level of cumulative foreign investment in Croatia where we are ranked 51st. And some other agencies, for example. The World Economic Forum in the 2011/2012 Global Competitiveness Report There's even 142 countries, and there's 76th place, so somewhere in the middle. Such analyses and rankings of countries by competitiveness and factors affecting it make it easier for us to actually do away with the causes of poor competitiveness and should be taken into account. We estimate it would be one of the most important tasks of this particular agency. And a few words about the very text of the law. We propose that the proposer consider several of our proposals relating to Article 6 in point 5 to equalise the mandate for the appointment of members of the board of directors of the Agency with the mandate of the Government, so that the mandate does not last for 5 but 4 years. In order to determine the minimum professional preparation for the Director and the Deputy Director, e.g. that the law lays down that it is a high professional preparation of certain orientations, economic, legal or technical professions, and that all other conditions and means of tendering are governed by the statutes. In accordance with Article 13 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council, the European Parliament and of the Council are to be amended accordingly. The law on institutions. Since this is an establishment with public powers, it is a matter of supervision of the legality of the Agency's work that the other authorities of the State administration, in accordance with the regulations governing the system of state administration, will be able to supervise, in particular those relating to the public authority of the Agency. The SDP club will support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6877	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS club, Ms. Representative Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6878	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, distinguished deputy ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. I have already talked about this today as part of the previous debate, but I will point out once again that today in Croatia we are faced with a truly devastating fact that we are one of the most uncompetitive countries in the environment. In addition to this, it is very clear that 8 years ago we were a country whose GDP per capital was higher than all transition countries except Slovenia and the Czech Republic, so we were ahead of one Poland and Hungary and Slovakia, etc., so that today we would be in a position to have greater GDP per capital only from Romania and Bulgaria. The country's competitiveness from year to year has fallen rapidly, with concrete figures and numerous examples of practices, the testimony of bitter investors, and that the situation in this matter is indeed alarming, as also spoke the deputy minister, the strong recommendations of the European Commission delegation in Croatia, which are even... and a whole series of proposals and measures to improve the investment climate, as well as the need to establish an independent operating body that will provide all operational support to investors in one place. Here it is important to say that we actually have one paradox of the system, namely we have even relatively well-assembled legal frameworks, but on the other hand we have a practice where good legal solutions don't work at all. Even the status and intensity of the support our country offers is interesting for potential investors, but on the other hand, the procedure, i.e. very clearly and openly clean bureaucratic and administrative obstacles that appear in an attempt to make investment projects happen, put our country at the very bottom of the competitiveness scale. Here is perhaps the freshest example, yesterday in Vienna was the Croatian-Austrian Economic Forum with over 130 Croatian and Austrian businessmen, almost all of whom expressed a strong desire to invest in Croatia, but later they bombed us literally with the remarks and obstacles they face when the investment is tried and realized. We also heard about it from the Austrian Minister of Economy. The next problem is the non-compliance between the management body and the institutions involved in the implementation of regional and local investment projects and the re-existence of one reference point in the institutional system that would first provide the investor with basic information and later all operational support. From the overall problem of so many bureaucratic obstacles, the incoordination of the state administration body, the non-coordination with the bodies of local government units and self-government, which resulted in a markedly poor investment climate in Croatia, it is more than clear that emergency measures must be taken to re-position Croatia as a desirable destination to investors, and the measure proposed by this government and the Ministry of Economy is just the establishment of an Investment and Competitiveness Agency. The main role of the Agency will be, above all, to focus as an operational body on raising the competitiveness of our economy, i.e. putting first all components directly affecting its growth. This in the first phase means the specialisation of regions or sectors, the development of sectoral analyses, the development of strategies for each private sector and the key development strategy. These strategic documents, together with their operational programmes and concrete measures, will be the basic basis for managing development, but will also act as a system for allocating money from the structural instruments of cohesion policy, thus enabling it to be more meaningful and effective. Most of the Agency's operational activities and staff will be focused precisely on providing operational support on the ground and each investment project will be monitored according to the project model, so from the first stage to the finalisation. Furthermore, the establishment of a cross-resorship coordination with the assistance required by a significantly increased level of operationality of all bodies involved in the realisation of the investment project is envisaged. The very structure of the agency is practically subordinated to the operating support department of investors, with the main objective of providing effective support to investors. In the part of coordination, the Agency's tasks will also be to promote the cooperation of the public, private, scientific research sector and, of course, to bring business sector and labour market needs in line, which are currently at a large distance. It is important here to say that such agencies have all the transition states that have clearly recognised the necessity of creating conditions and climate for the arrival of investors, so other countries have long recognized this need and established such agencies, so all the countries in the environment. There are Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Romania, Serbia and here are one of those who have really excellent results is also the Slovak agency SARIO and all of them are mainly made according to the model proposed by the Ministry of Economy. And mostly with a lot more employees than this ministry predicted. In Croatia, it is necessary and urgent to create a climate and conditions for the arrival of investors because only investments mean the creation of new jobs and the overall growth of the economy. And for this very reason, the HNS club gives strong support to the establishment of this agency, of course, with the request of the Ministry of Economy to form as soon as possible and thus in a way that its work begins to produce immediate concrete and visible results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6879	Thank you very much. And we still have until the break of Mr. Mladen Novak's representative on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club. And you will be Mr. Vuksic? I haven't been able to register it here. Here you go, Mr. Branko Vuksic, on behalf of the club. That's later, I wasn't delivered. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6880	The esteemed deputy minister and this law is urgent and this law is hasty, and the one who hastens to speak before he finds out anything. The one who hastens to respond before he realizes anything, the one who hastens to decide before checking anything. The writers of this law haven't even checked the logic. They were going to create a framework for an agency that would be stronger even than Chuck Norris, but they didn't give her any weapons. The Agency for Investments and Competitiveness should be a spiritus molens – an investment driver, a bulldozer who will push through bureaucratic obstacles and create conditions for competitiveness. The Agency for Investments should be an agency of agencies, a super agency, a supermen's fortress that no one will be able to hold back. But the way she sees her legislator, the agency's more like Don Quiyote from Mancha than Chuck Norris. This law is a classic example of conflict between ideals and realities. He's noble in his intentions and he's idealistic, but he's inconclusive for a number of reasons. The first is that, in the first 100 days of the new government, professionalism will be sought by a great candle, pursued by projects such as Don Quiyote on windmills, with a spear on an olive beak. In fact, the agency will be another one in a series of extended arms or digging up a minister in charge of the economy. The agency is run by the director of the Board of Directors, and the head of the board of directors is a hit-and-run minister in charge of the economy. The members of the board of directors are ministers from various ministries or perhaps ministers themselves, which is unclear from the text of the law. And who's proposing members of the board? That same superminister, for the economy of course. How long before the head and members of the board are elected? For five years, a term of office and something. But that's why the director of the agency is elected for four years. It provides for a term of office for an election cycle, but for ministers it is not. He believes that there will be at least two, three, if not more mandates that I would find difficult to agree with. And look, the devil's agency isn't run by or not by the director, but, as I said, the head of the board of directors who should have a logical control function. Then who oversees the legality of the agency's work? The Ministry of Economy. The minister oversees himself as in the Soviet Union. In addition to launching the Croatian economy, and we have already listened to such flossulas, the agency will be responsible, will be responsible for the commitments made to all of its assets, which of course it does not have. Don Quiyote rides again, but not Manchom, but Croatian. This law should, following an emergency procedure, be withdrawn from the emergency procedure or taught by the new government's experience at the Law establishing an Investment and Competitiveness Agency, require a 10-ak amendment of the Government's course because the Government's knowledge if it is not recognised by the authorities. And what I said 10 minutes ago we got amendments to this law by the government, they're amendments, they're not government but they're SDP, HNS, IDS and HSU. The competences of the Investment and Competitiveness Agency overlap with the mentioned item of the agenda, which is the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Encouragement of Small Economy Development with the final draft law. In fact, if you read some of the points, let’s say in Article 11. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Promotion of Small Economy and the Final Proposal of the Law establishing the Investment and Competitiveness Agency of Article 13 may, in particular, be amended in certain places by certain words and individual marks. That's why we think the Croatian Labour Club should withdraw this law from the rush procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6881	Thank you very much. What? ... Sir, you want to talk now before the break so that... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And does the correction have an incorrect quote? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here's Madam Representative Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6882	Well, there was a lot here in this debate of incorrect allegations that could be corrected, but I would only refer to this one if there was no need for this law to be passed in haste. This is exactly the law, and because of the catastrophic indicators of our economy and the total lack of investment, this is exactly what we need to bring right away and get to work right away.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6883	Thank you very much. In fact, Mr. Pupovac asked me as a representative of his club until... they delayed the obligation to speak behind you in the end, so I thought if you all agreed to do so. Now you've got a chance to talk, so let's get it over with so we don't disturb the order. Here you go, Mr. Representative, on behalf of your club. What? ... We can't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We said we'd have a different pace of work. We've already agreed on that. It's common to know when lunch is, when it's a vote. Here you go, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6884	Thank you, Mr. President. The SDSS advocates' club will support this Investment and Competitiveness Agency Act because we believe it is necessary for such a body to be established in order to increase operationality in different aspects of investment policy and, of course, to increase the competitiveness of individual industries and individual economic operators and the Croatian economy as a whole. What we would like to say before the vote of this law, Madam Deputy Minister, is this. First, as much as we welcome one of these laws, the question is so much whether this law can be as effective as we would, and I believe the ministry also wanted it if it was not followed by an adequate investment policy, unless we had a very clear investment policy that would then be provided as in the law and mentioned in one place the strategic perspective of development based on these investments. So far we hear what's good to hear and that's investment, investment, investment, but what we still don't hear is what investments are in, is in everything anyone can be interested in. Is it for everything water can bring, which we will be able to accept on our shores or is it in line with the vision that we must have when it comes to the development of the Croatian economy, first of all, the development of the Croatian industry? This was the case in the previous point of this small entrepreneurship, and it was good that it was and it was good to go with it, but it is also clear that a little entrepreneurship and with the increased concern of the state and the increased concern of the ministries will not be able to obtain that status and scope in the overall production capacity of our economy unless they rely on stronger economic operators or be associated with economic operators and stronger economic operators from some of our neighbouring countries. We are talking about strengthening small entrepreneurship at the same time we do not know what to do with shipyards, and we know, for example, that example can be seen how small entrepreneurship policy works. And in that sense, I'm going back to this topic now, so we expect, we believe that the government has the capacity for this, we believe that the ministry has the capacity to come out, in addition to the investment message, with the messages that these are types of business branches, which are the industrial capacities that we want to develop that we're going to open for investment. Then we'd be more clear and then we'd be a lot less supportive of something that we otherwise think we should support like this agency. For this reason, we at the SDSS Club call on the Government to start informing us and the public in the following messages about measures not only of investment policy but of measures of the overall economic policy, in particular of the re-industrisation policy. Some of the measures that can be heard are supposed to include investments concerning infrastructure, construction, etc. that they're good but on a short path. Unfortunately, they are not the solution we need in Croatia. That's why we ask that question. Not to stifle your questions, but because we believe it is an imperative without which this good initiative that we support will not fully achieve its outcome. The second question that connects is what we have already heard from the predecessors and those who have discussed this legislation on individual committees is a question of the risk of the Agency's authority, it is a question of the risk of monitoring the way the agency works, and it is a question of the risks that can be asked in the communication between local self-government units that can be put into communication between certain business entities and the agency, because it can be seen that it is a kind of state interventionist investment policy, and that should certainly avoid as much as we all realize that it is necessary to cut these painful routes and the painful channels of creating an investment climate and ensuring investment space but there is another kind of risk, and that is not to go to another extreme Madam Deputy Minister. And that's all I'm saying is something that I believe won't be related to the work of this agency or the work of the ministry. But given the fact that the Agency's supervision of the work is envisaged, we would like it to be strengthened in this respect and if there was a way for the Agency to work on the way the agency works not only with the government's consent, not only to work with the ministry's consent but at the same time to have additional supervision that would remove possible risks and possible objections that could come in this regard. And a third thing I'd like to say. According to what we can understand, the agency would firstly focus on large projects or large programs, which is of course necessary. However, there are a whole range of areas in the Republic of Croatia that have no capacity not only for large investment programmes but also for very small ones. These are important areas of the Republic of Croatia, from Eastern Slavonia, Western Slavonia, Banija, Kordun, Like Dalmatia, so a series of border Croatian areas that cry for minimum but cry for investment capacity. Since local self-government units in these areas have no capacity for participation not by 50% but even by 30%, I fear that our focus which I support, but if focus is only on large programmes and large projects then these areas and these environments will be condemned to a further life without the necessary investment attention and without the necessary investment capacity. I ask you to think again in the ministry about how and in what way this fear we have, if it is only a concern, and if there is a reasonable reason to remove it because it is also a question of the economic capacity of livestock and fruit growing, it is also a big project for Croatia that is only a question of how we design it. Shall we, for example? Shepherding in the Face from 5,000 sheep's throats to 200 thousand or 150 if we can't or at least 50. It is a big project for Croatia, and for those people, regardless of who it is, whether they were returnees of Croats, returnees of Serbs, settlers and settlers from different parts of the former Yugoslavia and Croatia, it is of vital interest to them, and I believe for both Croatia and its economy. With these notes, I end up exhibiting on behalf of the SDSS Club, and if the ministry had these three things in mind we would raise our hands with even more ease for this law and for the establishment of this agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6885	Thank you very much. We'll continue after work break at 3:00. The first is Mr. Djuro Drinker on behalf of the HDZ Club. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6886	My colleagues and colleagues, it's been 15 hours, and we're continuing the debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the distinguished representative, Đuro Popiac, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6887	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So after the break, this afternoon's session isn't going to be what it would have been if I had the chance to close the morning session, but more or less. Here I will try a few sentences just briefly to look back on this proposal of the Law establishing the Investment and Competitiveness Agency. Thus, in the very assessment of the situation at the outset, the promoter clearly states that the fundamental reason why it is proposed to adopt this law is to stem from the need for a systematic approach to fostering investment and increasing the competitiveness of the Croatian economy as the main driver of economic growth and development. And in order to achieve, of course, these objectives are foreseen by the law that their activity will be aimed at promoting investment of legal persons, supporting investors at all stages of investment implementation, but here is something new even after the end of that investment. Promotion of the Republic of Croatia as a desirable investment destination, support, development and implementation of new financial mechanisms, and some new concepts are now being introduced, so the Guarantee Fund for the Great Industry, the Fund for Investor Support, etc. Indeed, it sounds very ambitious and attractive, but here and at first, the question is whether the text of this law itself responded to these requirements that were set at the very beginning of the law, and also the general question whether these goals in essence and outline what the government and all ministries or at least most ministries should essentially do, or whether this government really thinks these goals can reach or reach such an agency. We all know here that the experience with such agencies or the agency of the state of Croatia has and that, of course, the results of the work of these agencies and the effects that they have caused were relatively modest, and the costs were not negligible. We can also talk about the guilt of this or that government, but if there's an ambition to achieve these goals I hold that and in fact I'm as sure as it wasn't in the past that this agency, especially as defined, has no chance at all. Unfortunately, neither is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but more unfortunately, the Croatian economy as a whole. I am texting the law so a few comments perhaps for thinking or perhaps as an incentive to the legislators themselves, since the law will be adopted, to try and fix what is being fixed. The Agency shall therefore define in Article 2 that it will be a legal person with public powers, who performs the tasks under the activities prescribed by this law. What will be the public authority? What will they be defined by? And does public authority and, in fact, new public obligations to future potential investors, investors, economics? I repeat the question, what are the public powers this agency should have? Isn't there already enough institutions of state and with too many public powers and with too many obligations that Croatian businessmen and investors and investors must meet? It is defined in Article 3 of the Agency's activity – it is a systematic and operational implementation of policies and measures to increase the competitiveness of the Croatian economy with a particular emphasis on encouraging investment of legal persons etc. It says policy enforcement and measures. Who has adopted the policies and measures this agency will implement? How will it happen that the agency increases the competitiveness of the Croatian economy when everything the Croatian government does and what it has done so far is exactly the opposite? The deterioration of the investment economic climate is obvious, by the very fact, by introducing and implementing new tax measures, scissors, a new tax coup, so from the increase in VAT to the income tax where the middle layer is destroyed and, of course, the basic motive for which someone enters into investment or entrepreneurship or to deal with the economy is the additional taxation of profits, and the most catastrophic and most recent is the act of taxation of the past. And it's mostly successful entrepreneurs who have been keeping their profits in their companies just for investment and for these dark days. This agency certainly can't fix everything that's defined here can't eliminate the negative effects that the government has already managed to do for these little over 100 days. It also says here that a proactive approach to investment is implemented in line with the investment-enhancing strategy. I can't remember what strategy it is, but I don't know if it's the government that's bringing in some new investment-enhancing strategy, whether it exists, will it exist or will it be brought in and who will eventually bring it in? It is therefore interesting to think and perhaps to imagine a little at the end around this point 3 where it is said to support the application of new financial mechanisms for the economy. The Big Industry Guarantee Fund and the Big Investor Support Fund. What is the Guarantee Fund? Is the budget envisaged, who will organise it, who will oversee it and how it will function and for which investments and for which investors will it be intended? Is this in the public sector whether it is support for private investment ventures, therefore, for the large industry. What's the definition of the big industry? What's the definition of a big investor? In the morning we witnessed and commented on a similar undertaking where the minister of the small economy founded his agency or HAMAG this investment portfolio, apparently fearing that this great minister or minister of the large economy would somehow actuate or shadow his interests or his faith that he could do something in that small segment. But as this was created, I'm afraid this is going to get in the way of everything. Maras, Minister Maras has defined that a small investment is up to 50m euros, I don't know how much in Croatia is expected to invest large investments above 50m euros, and that these would be investments in the real sector in the economy unless they are in energy, tourism or similar transport. Perhaps only one suggestion here also says that this agency supports the Council for Competitiveness of the Council with a big letter. I suppose you think of the National Competitiveness Council that's a council that exists, so here's if it's not a new competition council then maybe you can change it and put the correct name of the council that exists today, it's been formed since 2002. ... The HUP of the union is therefore the real one called the National Competitiveness Council or the NVK. It's interesting and it's already been commented here on how to manage this agency. So it has been said and commented already that the agency is run by a board of directors and 14 members. So, the operationality and efficiency of a body I suppose an agency that might have a little more employees than members of the board of directors is a really interesting product. The chairman of the board of directors is in position as the minister responsible for the economy. The Minister in charge of the economy in all small letters, and now the question is the same with regard to everything we've heard in the morning that we're seeing in general how the government works what it is and which minister is in charge of the economy. If you thought it was the first Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Economy, then perhaps it should have been written in the position of the economy ministers. Is the Minister of Small Enterprise in charge of the economy or not? Is the Minister of Agriculture in charge of the economy or not? Or maybe someone else. Especially when the government's self-government suggests that the economy is dealing with 10 or more ministries in a broader sense. Then which minister is in charge of the economy? Maybe if it was an idea then it should have been written that it was a minister of the economy as well as an economy. And it's interesting now that there are members of the boards of directors who make up various representatives of various bodies. Why these? Why not the others? Why don't someone from the economics possibly association, chamber or someone else if they already want to open a wider front and give really one real support here to some phantom future investors. This is everywhere else where the Minister in charge of the economy says the same comment applies to each of the following articles. It also writes what will define the statutes, and it actually opens up a question of one, so when it comes to general acts, when it comes to the work programme, the financial plan. It also states that the type of services provided by the Agency shall be determined with compensation and shall determine the amount of that fee. Now it's obviously a link to those public powers. Is there a fee for public authority, or will that compensation agency do something else, which is actually at the end of the day, and the meaning and purpose of my fee will be tariffd, for which services, for which jobs and where will this price list and the tariff system be seen, and which role will it be and with what sense is it formed? This is a more interesting team because here is next to this agency, which has become the same investment agency, recently this Croatian Parliament recently passed a law that formed the Energy Centre for Energy Investments in Energy. These days some articles appeared, some newspaper comments where we had the opportunity to see where the centre allegedly came from these comments sent funding contracts to public enterprises and where, if it is true, it really needs to be asked whether HEP from its total incomes should give up 0.2% of total revenues in order to finance or co-finance this centre? That's, of course, problematic for a lot of reasons. What services will this center perform? Based on what powers or opportunities are the president of the administration of these public undertakings to order certain services past the public tender and then also regarding this issue and this article in this law for which jobs, services, this agency will provide services with compensation, which compensation, and what will that be defined? The agency here confirms that it continues to develop this topic or this idea, says "the agency will acquire funds to burn its activities from the state budget and from other sources in accordance with the law". What law? I guess this or someone else? So, of course, by self-experienced one unnecessary new body of state administration, one unnecessary agency that further bureaucratises this entire economic space. And you believe that what we have started in the past term that only the exceptional engagement of every minister of the entire apparatus in the structure of the ministry itself can achieve these goals that you have stated in the preamble of this law. So here, of course, the HDZ club will not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6888	At this exhibition, we have one correction to the incorrect allegations, the distinguished representative Natalija Martincevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6889	So here's a lot of incorrect allegations again, this time I'm going to fix only the one relating to tax reform, that is, the esteemed representative Popioč said that the government has burdened the economy with these taxes. On the contrary, by reducing the contribution, the government charged the economy a total of 2.4 billion annually, together with cuts in water, forest and memorial rents totaled 3 billion kuna. So the economy in that part is relieved, not burdened.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6890	Thank you very much. The views of the IDS on this legislative proposal will be presented by the distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6891	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister of the Economy, gentlemen of the Parliament. The IDS supports the law, thinks it's not as unnecessary as it used to be, but to start by saying something else. Of course, no one thinks any agency can run Croatia. Help Croatia can, clearly difficult to run, change itself simply cannot. Here we sit a few days ago, talking to some guys who have all 20, 30, 40, 120 employees and say about us like this. Three, four years ago, we were all competing to make more, one went to work the hall, the other went to expand his hall, one got new machines, the other went to get a backhoe. One was renovated by a catering facility, the third one went to the store, etc. And today they're all telling me we're all looking at only one thing, how to sell what we just created yesterday. That's the worst thing, the environment was up to a few months ago in this country bad, the opportunities were unspective. Everyone's pushing themselves I dare say to the public sector, everyone's pushing themselves into state-owned companies, into a few monopolys, into banks, in the administration, into the ministry. I know that many of us have asked today to help through the workplace of this or that, the poor to ensure some existence. If someone asked him to hire him at a private company, no, we've all been looking at a public service or something. So the agency absolutely does, but what's most important right now is just to start changing the climate in this country. So I said the agency can help, it can't change. On the other hand, you should also send a message to all citizens working, having, hiring, paying taxes, and getting rich and making it clear to people. The politics of egalitarianism cannot run Croatia, no matter what anyone thinks. One hope should be restored, one faith should be given back to the people to make it worth their while, that not everyone in these private services is just criminals and thieves. They don't need to be burdened, they don't need to be intimidated by property taxes, etc. I agree, there have been a lot of those who, say, have left one company lately, started another, played the workers, played the state through contributions, etc. And that is for every judgment, and that is not to be justified. Although there are some who may have done so, they also saved some of the jobs they had opened before. It is clear that I condemn that practice if someone does, but I say it again, not all of them are thieves because in these circumstances, the opportunities in this country in the last few years really took real skill to simply survive in this economic world. What is certain as I see in this final proposal for a law establishing an Investment and Competitiveness Agency, best or most valuable, is in this Article paragraph 3.point 3. where it is said literally, I quote: let us now help remove administrative barriers, lead to post-investment concerns, that I don't know if it will ever be achieved, but this third, gives support to the application of new financial mechanisms to support the economy (guarantee fund for large industry, fund for support to large investors, etc.). But I'm asking myself why only for this big industry. We're in Istria, there's no Mr. Lorencin here who led the agency, maybe I won't say anything 15 years ago, maybe I'd have gone too far, 12 or 13 years ago just one of these guarantee funds tried to make it happen and I think that's just the point. That little craftsman, it doesn't matter that he's opening a company that's just beginning to have no property, he can't get a guarantee, but he's supposed to get to the loan somehow. To him neither father nor parents who had given up for 20, 30 years, worked in Italy, Germany, Austria to build the house will now mortgage the house so that he could "play entrepreneurship". That is the point, how for the big industry should be for that small industry, craftsmen, etc. Not just for the big ones, but small ones. Earlier, Minister Maras spoke about the small economy as defined by the law, which up to 250 employees is about 90% of the Croatian economy. Don't let anyone correct me if I may not have quoted him correctly, that 90%, maybe even more said, of GDP. But I'm saying it's the hardest thing for this kid again. The big ones are all worried, so now we see through this future guarantee fund. There's no one in this country to worry about. Three years ago in Croatia, Mr. Djuro Popioč certainly knows that, we had 40 billion kuna investments in 2010, 2011. 20 billion kuna, now we'll see, privately and publicly, what will be in 2012. What is equally important, to remove barriers to these new investments and again, 3.4 years ago in Croatia, Mr Maras mentioned, we had 4 billion euros in investments, if I'm not wrong in 2009, about 2 billion euros in 2010, less than little Montenegro, in 2011, only 1.2 billion euros, come on now. They're all bypassing us. The only investments are in the banking sector, in supermarkets, in recent years, or I don't know how many Greenfield investments are gone, no one's going to go to hotels, maybe something's going to happen to energy. The public's resistance to every investment is terrible, the media that we don't speak, the political opposition also, the non-governmental contracts I don't know extremely unwittingly, etc., etc. However, I would also like to say, some foreign investments have not proved to be the happiest. Today I get all morning messages that this... pollutes again. And they invested 70, 80 million euros, 0.5% have Croatian exports, directly for 130 employees, indirectly 450 people. Without them, a complete car transport sector would simply collapse into Istria. So on the one hand, you're doomed to them, but on the other hand, I'm asking for at least some surveillance when it comes to these shows. This morning, I said that Mr. Linic's finance minister in Washington was fighting for interest at the IMF of 6.37%. Some here will now receive loans in Croatia by 4%, so these subsidized loans to call them that. Otherwise, if the state takes loans with 6.4%, the entrepreneur can't get credit below 7.5%, 8%, 9% of citizens below 10%, 11% for car purchase, let alone for something else. We will only be there somewhere in 2013 to know what and where Croatia is going. I want to believe that we're going to achieve some growth, even though there are some like that. IMF that says that and 2012. Croatia will have a negative growth of 0.5%. In four years we start with a negative growth of about 10% that I guess we can't go below that anymore. And I want to believe that these guarantee funds, that bigger loans, that the change of opportunities for investment can all change the investment climate and that something positive will happen in the Republic of Croatia. A moment ago, Mrs. Dragica Zgrebec, I wrote it correctly, mentioned that at this point in the Republic of Croatia, she is working a million 479 employees. That since the end of last year, we've lost 38 thousand jobs to this day. That the unemployed a year ago were 254 thousand at the same time, today they are. She said the last official record was 339 grand. So plus 85 grand. So 85 new thousands unemployed in a year. What a disaster! But it's far more painful for 40,000 less employees. It's like someone like that. He loses 15 shipyards ala Ulnik. I dare say that in all Adriatic tourism, there are currently no 40 thousand people employed in the hotel sector from Umag down to Dubrovnik. In Istria, which is 35% of Croatian tourism, works in these existing hotels 7 thousand people certainly do not work, not counting clear seasons. So in one Istra Tourist in Umag, in one lagoon in Novigrad, in the Blue Lagoon in Poreč, in the Riviera in Poreč, in the Arena Tourist down in Pula, VAL-ALTA, JADRAN TOURIST, RAPAC, ANITA means all solid, large systems do not work at this time more than 6 maybe 7 thousand people. So the loss of 40,000 jobs is simply a tragedy, and I think among other things, and because of the fact that it's just been a policy that nothing has simply been done in the country in the last few years or can't be done. But why am I saying that? If we don't get people back to work so that someone doesn't think in this assembly or in the Croatian public that they're going to grow GDP. It can't grow GDP from jobs in the Republic of Croatia. And where do these people mostly work in Croatia today? 70% of people work in small companies. When I tell small companies, I mean companies that have 2, 3, 5, 10 ma no more than 20 employees. And these companies need to be preserved, and that is why through one policy we don't know these or some similar agencies we have to go out with guarantees not only big ones, so we stand here to support big investors and big industry, but small ones because in this small sector, gentlemen work 70% of the population of the Republic of Croatia, a budget full of 50%, and that's the only thing that can happen overnight. I agree with what we hear every day that the state needs to invest strongly, in this direction goes this budget reduction, whether 3.4 or 4 billion kuna depends on how we look and comment. In 2010, the years were lost among other things and due to ongoing investigations in the public system. No one has anything against the control of the DORH, the USCOD, the inspection, the audit, the courts, come on well, but that activity has blocked any investment because the people who worked there were scared and simply to ensure themselves they wanted to do nothing indirectly in this way by doing enormous damage to the country itself. So, exports absolutely yes, shipbuilding should be preserved, investments encouraged, bankruptcy should be controlled in some way. The economic downturn of Slavonia, Dalmatia. These regions should be saved, but I am telling you that it is the only way we can do it if we preserve this small economy and therefore I believe that it is very positive that the Government of Mr Milanovic introduced this ministry into that system of public administration or what it is called. Investors I want to believe will give Croatia a chance. They're not on the horizon yet, I guess. The IMF has given Croatia a chance, a credit rating is preserved, that's good. We got this loan, which is extremely unfavourable for European opportunities, but for us, it's like a hill, like a mountain, like a house big and positive of 6.37%. So we got one chance and I want to believe that something in this country is really going to run for the better. In 4 months no one can expect any spectacular results but the government has to get a chance and a chance and a chance for the government is how I see it first and foremost support and time. Within 100 or 120 days, I see that my time has run out, clearly nothing can be achieved. [[Intruder: Bring the end.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6892	Thank you very much, esteemed colleague Cain. I call on the now respected representative Drazen Djurovic to bring the HDSSB's stances closer to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6893	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister, MPs and MPs. I would briefly refer at the beginning of the debate to Mr Cain's previous debate, which he mentioned in his support on the establishment of an investment agency and the competitiveness of the argument that so far there were too few foreign investments and that most of the investments were in the banking sector in trade, trade centres, trade activity, and there was too little greenfield investment. And that's where you'd agree. But I don't remember whether we had a state agency to support the establishment of shopping centres or support banks, so regardless of which investments were very much in these two sectors regardless of why we didn't have any state agency to support such a type of investment. So then the question is, do we now have a Greenfield Investment Support Agency? But here's to going back to this topic. In the previous item of the agenda was the debate on the Croatian Small Economy and Investment Agency HAMAG Invest or the SDP Agency. At this point of the agenda is a debate on the establishment of a new agency, investment agency for investment and competitiveness or the HNS agency. Comes one after the other or the point after the point. So first this SDP agency then this HNS agency. I'm going to do it a little bit like this, in fact, slowly banalize it to simplify the concepts, but I don't think that's too far from the truth. Now I'm going to call them all the time SDP and HNS's agency, although these are, of course, Croatian state agencies. This SDP agency we heard in the explanation at the previous agenda point that it will now cover the extended sector of the small and medium-sized economy and entrepreneurship that makes it 50, 70, 80 or 90% of the total economy. And good. And now there's a new agency that's just being set up that the state budget this year costs only 18 million kuna, and fortunately, we've already prepared the money, which will cover what? She'll cover high and large entrepreneurship, let's say. If this previous agency from the previous point of HAGAM investment covers more or less of the investments in the small and medium-sized economy, entrepreneurship, craftsmanship, why are we even setting up this new agency? Or do we actually need greenfield investments that the state needs in the first place? Now how are those agencies set up? This HAGAM Invest from the previous item of the agenda is not set up under the Law on Institutions, so it does not have a board of directors and directors, a board of directors and a board of directors. She's set up I'd say by one egalitarian model so this HAGAM Invest. And this SDP investment and competitiveness agency is set up according to one metaistic model under the Law on Institutions. Now what does this HAGAM Invest look like? For comparisons, the structure itself and the two agencies this HAGAM Invest has little to do with it. So on its board will be representatives of the ministries, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Chamber of crafts, the HUP, the Alliance of Cooperatives, they will co-operate with the county development agencies that is this HAGAM Invest SDP. This HNS agency, which is now on the agenda, is set up ethically. It is the administrative council in which the chairman of the board of directors, of course, is Vice-President Cacic, and there are representatives of almost all ministries, as a rule of all ministries, so one mini government. Only of the ministries there are no MORH, MUP and the Ministry of Health, all the other ministries are represented in the board of directors of this agency. This SDP agency has a mandate at the 4th year HAGAM Invest. This HNS agency has been here for five years. The CNS Agency for Investments and Competitiveness has no declaration of compliance with the EU acquis as we have at the end of the proposal to eat along with this HAGAM Invest. However, this agency submits a report to the Government, through course of the Ministry of Economy over its administrative supervision of its work, of course, the Croatian Parliament is no longer present after we raise our hands and declare that agency we have finished with the agency, it continues to pass in full on to the Ministry of Economy. Once a year, the Croatian government will be informed through the Ministry of Economy, and the Republic of Croatia will only be in full and unlimited responsibility for the Agency's obligations. This is Article 14(2). This remains only the Republic of Croatia in its permanent obligation to meet, permanently and unlimitedly, all obligations undertaken by that Agency. So we don't have any more problems. And now a man wonders what happens to that agency now? Is this agency really going to happen, do we first and foremost have to start any agencies for the start of the Croatian economy and for any step in this eagerly expected creation of new jobs? Once we form them, no matter what authority no one ever shuts down again. It remains forgotten, agencies, centres, which advice is only being slightly accumulated on the budget, and mandates are being changed. If you wanted to save on the state budget and you could try not to know two for one, you shut down two that don't work when you run one. No, we're not shutting down any of them, we're leaving everything behind, and we're opening up new agencies and centres and institutions, and I don't know what they're already called. We don't mind, and we'd be very happy if the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness were to really start investments in the coming time, but we don't believe and I don't think that the first step towards investment should be to start an agency with 18 million kunas. Nor does the opening of that agency and similar institutions that are very often used to implode their personnel and help those people, the number of employees who are reduced every hour on the web pages of this Pension Insurance Office. Thank you. Therefore, we will not support such a proposal on this agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6894	Thank you very much. We have two corrections to an incorrect quote. First respected representative Natalija Martincevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6895	I would correct the incorrect allegation of Đurovic's Đurovic's respected representative that this is about HNS and SDP's agencies. This is, of course, not about HNS and SDP, but about state agencies, agencies that have all the countries in our environment, countries that have clearly recognized that such agencies are necessary and necessary, that have far passed you in attracting investments, and left us at the bottom of the competitiveness scale.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6896	Thank you very much. And the second correction, the esteemed representative, Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6897	Mr. Vice-President, it is the wrong quote of HAGAM, there is no HAGAM, there is a Croatian small economy agency and investments called HAMAG. That was the wrong quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6898	A very correct correction to an incorrect quote. So we're done discussing clubs and we're moving on to an individual debate. Honorable representative Damir Rilje will speak first.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6899	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected deputy ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I would like to present my next personal opinion on the proposal for a law establishing an Investment and Competitiveness Agency. Therefore, respecting the reasons behind the proposed establishment of this Investment and Competitiveness Agency, which would certainly be the achievement of a larger social product in the Republic of Croatia, so that some profits and opportunities for the release of investment momentum in the Republic of Croatia are achieved. I would like to remember that the agency itself or any other institution cannot be the main one, but one of the drivers of increasing the competitiveness of the Croatian economy, as well as economic growth and development, can therefore be one of the co-ordinators. Namely, a public authority institution such as this agency should be able, together with all ministries that have a direct impact on the creation of infrastructure, legal, organisational, economic and other frameworks, to be merely a link that should facilitate the flow of fresh capital into the Croatian economy and allow shorter investment time and faster investment cycle. Certainly, by estimating the European sectoral development strategy, we should actually extract the best effects for our Croatian regions, including local self-government. I believe that we should certainly ensure that the foundation of the Agency's activities in terms of coordination and assistance is already based on all levels of administrative structure of the Republic of Croatia, certainly on units of local self-government. I believe that at all administrative levels we have our own development strategies, all of them, so we have to have them by law, so we also have our own development plans, and, of course, spatial planning conditions for each administrative whole or level individually, and then we have a starting point for action. These plans can certainly be implemented by respecting not only coordination as a task of this agency but rather an appropriate degree of decentralisation of the administrative levels themselves in financial and organisational terms. In view of the fact that these administrative levels themselves, therefore, I am talking about various different social political aspects, they must operate as companies that must fight for profit. Of course, this can be better achieved by applying all the good practices of an economically active market policy, but of course all the positive policies, norms and theories and practices of intellectual capital. Respecting the common Croatian market, the need to raise its competitiveness and economic growth and the need to create a Croatian new economic product that will be recognised and made available on the European and world markets, and to ensure the sustainability of the development of existing economic products and services, I hope and believe that this agency should be a service that will reduce obstacles and resolve the difficulties and difficulties that arise today in investment flows, especially when we talk about a public private partnership, but also other forms of investment, at all administrative levels. In this way, the agency could help to implement investments at all administrative levels, and this still implies the need to change the relationship that is based on the relevant legislation that today implies a long way from investors to the realisation of investments or investments in the Republic of Croatia. Of course, this bill should be updated in walking with both legal and organisational structure. Namely, the Agency's relations with its legal status and the envisaged way of funding in relation to the Ministry of Economy which is the superior, which would mean that its role should be defined precisely in the way that it can still belong, the method of systematic coordination and service in the investment procedures of all levels, administrative levels in the Republic of Croatia, in particular local self-government units. I support this law with the hope that it is only one of those in a series that will allow easier and simpler investment at all administrative levels, estimating the possibility of administrative levels themselves, in this case and local self-government units that encounter unnecessary obstacles and difficulties during investment cycles. Otherwise, I don't believe this agency will do its job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6900	Thank you. I now give the word to the esteemed representative, Joseph Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6901	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy, ladies and gentlemen. The Assembly usually also discusses, and that is especially how clubs speak, supporting or contesting a decision. I'm going to kind of step away from that rule here because what I'm saying is actually a common warning to the proposings that don't specifically concern this law that I'm going to support. It is a warning that there is something in action that in one title the author calls the Agency of the Republic of Croatia. I understand the process because in 2002 in one study I found that there were 56 agencies with the government of the Republic of Croatia. In 2006, those agencies were already 75, and we're currently going to have 95 agencies. This process is somewhat understandable. It is the result of the ineffectiveness of the public administration system, it is the result of major bureaucratic particularly legal obstacles which are thus sought to reduce and largely transfer regulatory activity to the agencies. Only my warning would concern the experiences others had with it. In 2007, in particular at the request of the Czech Republic, the OECD, or PUMA, their Institute of Public Administration, conducted a study on agencies in European public administration systems. So it's sigma papers no. 43. In 2007. They warn of some difficulties and potential problems in establishing the agency. What they're warning you about is the first motive. The agencies are set up to increase the efficiency of enforcement of otherwise government and ministerial decisions. That they actually care more about execution than the classical state or public administration does. The problematic part of this study is the fact that in this way one drug or one solution is transformed into a new problem, which is what units of local self-government will be able to say if they have opinions, expectations or policy decisions contrary to that? Secondly, in this case, I think it's quite instantaneous, the second difficulty we face, that is, which they have observed in the study, is the problem of coordination. This large number of agencies, so it's not just about these agencies, but about the number of agencies, that's what's causing the difficulties in their coordination. In 2002, it was noted that the vice president had 32 functions, mostly in such agencies. It wouldn't be good, now we have 95, if that number increased. Because what is pointed out is the difficulty of coordinating their work and the fact that in this way they actually replace the work of the main coordinator of state and other bodies, which is the Government. In fact, it is in some way moving the political focus or administrative focus from the activities of the classical state bodies of the ministries to a non-classical but less coordinated and then agencies and similar activities. I don't want to talk about the details of this study in limited time, although it's very interesting how the Czech Republic got out of this problem. More or less, these agencies were later included in the formation of ministries, which was also a possible way to address the problem of encouraging investment. It's the only thing I don't choose, something else I see a certain risk is chosen. I'm going to conclude this, I think it's reasonable because there's a certain way that I'd say mistrust to the authorities of local, regional and state administration that these bodies are used as a shorter way of making and implementing decisions. But we need to be aware that dosing is the most important thing in medicines. A small dose medicine is a medicine, but at a high dose it's poison. So, in some ways, I want the proposings to take care of what international experience is about the creation of new agencies and how. There's a certain upper limit of absorption manure we can handle. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6902	Thank you. I'm sorry, I didn't see that. We have a correction to an incorrect quote. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6903	Well, here I would correct the incorrect allegations of the esteemed Kregar representative if it were an agent in Croatia. It is obvious that the way the government has functioned together with all the institutions has not worked. We see what the results are, we see what the indicators are and it was more than obvious that certain changes and introductions are both new agencies and more than necessary. I would repeat once again that this isn't about an agency that's been invented now and by us, it's an agency that every country in Europe has. And when you listed the Czech Republic, the Czech Republic has this Investment Promotion Agency since 1992 and has made 25 billion direct investments through the work of that agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6904	I thank my colleague Martincevic. So for an individual debate, the distinguished representative Mladen Novak also applied.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6905	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Ministry representatives, fellow MPs. Now, my opinion is that the establishment of this agency defines some facts first. The fact that the government is not coordinated so representatives of various ministries should be further lined up into a new body called the agency this time. We've had examples of the center, and I don't know what other names, this time it's an agency. The agency will, in most things, be the government within the government only there is no current prime minister in it, but there is the all-present first vice-president of the government. The Parliamentary Committee on Environmental Protection also noted in its report on the proposal for this law, that "the establishment and definition of the activities of the agencies should take into account the competences of individual authorities of the state administration and agencies in order to avoid overlapping competences." They also noted that the 2013 and 2014 projections did not plan the funds for these purposes in the state budget. Also, on behalf of some other committees, there is a question as to why some agencies must be set up by law? Furthermore, from this I conclude that this is actually the fact that either the ego of the first Deputy Prime Minister is infinite or its real possibilities are infinite. In addition to the position of First Deputy Prime Minister, Minister of Economy, Member of the INA Supervisory Committees and the Investment Energy Sector Monitoring Centre, he will, in his position as Minister of Economy, be the chairman of the Agency's board of directors. I'm guessing this isn't even close to all his non-functional functions but obligations. Now I'm getting the first patch, and I guess the big majority here is thinking the same way that some people can and are in a position to put that question out loud, some of them can't or just aren't interested, does anyone think that anyone can do so much quality work, so many functions, and it's really done that it's not a reform I'm sitting there and everybody needs to know what I mean, what I want to do and submit to it? What happens if he doesn't give God to anyone but what happens if the health condition of our first Deputy Prime Minister calls for his shift? We've had cases like this. I didn't purposely allude to a case of a car accident from Hungary so it wouldn't be bad, so I'm alluding to it, but we already had this case, that someone was withdrawing for a medical reason. It's defined here that we write, or not us, but the promoter writes by person. What happens if someone else comes into that position and it's proved to be just one Superman, that no one else is acting so much duty, so much obligation, that we do what we do in that case? Are we going to say that everyone else is incompetent or I don't know what we're going to do in that case? Speaking of Superman and Superman, it's been three months since it took me three months to get an answer to the representative's question set on January 18th here on the current clock. Four days if I'm not mistaken, we've missed her for three months. Just to remind you, the parliamentary issue was about the situation in the town of Sisak. The city of Sisak, which definitely has nothing to do with this penance that it has, and it's falling apart, and then I asked if the arrival of the first two people of this government in the town of Sisak for the old year whether it was now I would use the term that I used quite often on this side while I was at the pay phone, whether it was politics, whether it was a purely calming tension before the EU entry referendum, we didn't need a new riot, then I asked whether it was it or not. So then I was told something like that with a lot of understanding, not a colleague, it doesn't really make sense to you, we're working on saving the city of Sisak took a lot of action, I got after three months I got the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6906	Sorry, buddy, you can do a little bit about this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6907	Yeah, yeah, that's what investments are. The agency is called among other things in the name of there are investments we're talking about investments. And among other things, it was about the city of Sisak that they would be saved. Meanwhile, while we are talking about these investments in the meantime, there has been a closure of the gas power grid, so 27 additional companies, or about 800 employees, have lost their energy, some of which is the main energy for production. And it's said okay. We're going to intervene within 60 days. But 60 days in this time of economy is not much, 60 days is eternal. It's really not much, it's forever. And the problem isn't since yesterday. And I'm not criticizing it, and I'm not hitting on this government right now, but the fact is that the problem was known long before and it didn't react until it didn't come to the door, but over its head. Probably these new 800 unemployed won't have much impact on state-level statistics, but for the city of Sisak it will absolutely mean a lot. Now I'll probably get around the agency again, but there's another agency, another agency. The Agency for Waterway Protection which, after 15 months and countless warnings, failed to reach a solution on how to declare a natural disaster with a waterway. So that's why today we have a situation to say that the Danube Lloyd as a company practically ahead of bankruptcy, some new 130, 150 families will run out of existence. The state has taken on the obligation to keep Savi in the water for 240 days, that's down to only 14% of the days available and nothing to anyone. So let me just point out how expedient these agencies are, how effective they are, how many of our colleagues say we're just adding them, we're adding no other agencies, but we've heard there's a new term here. I daren't say it again or I'm afraid this one wouldn't mess with his tongue, so then I accept that term you said and I agree with him. I noticed the same way that most colleagues before me said that, in my opinion, it was even kind of a bit of a cowardly egg. The term of office of members of the Governing Council shall take five years, and if the future authority decides for any reason to leave this agency any change of staff will be politically, which is practically the reason in the future for calling some new ones. But it kind of lets you know that you're aware that you won't even get the next election. All in all, there is a general understanding that order is being introduced, not only in institutions, but in procedures and functioning and that projects are generally being implemented in the administrative bureaucratic section, which is definitely the biggest problem. The whole process of establishing this agency proves that this government is doing everything scythically in style without quality processing and you've had so much time preparing practically, only a sucker could believe two years ago that HDZ could survive in power. As much as we heard it from our colleagues, they knew it two years ago, too. In my opinion, this is not even done by the ruling coalition, this is what individuals do for the ruling coalition. And if it weren't for the whole state, if it weren't for the functioning of the state, this would just be sad, like this, in my opinion, it's pretty dangerous. And worst of all, I believe that, not to believe, I see that a good part of the colleagues who in that ruling coalition are also watching some statements, some performances, and also in some let's say private family circles probably commented differently, this way in this assembly they have to respect their coalition majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6908	On this exhibit, we have one correction of an incorrect quote and one replica. First of all, the adjudicated representative Natalija Martinčević.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6909	Thank you for your kind wishes and your concern for the first vice president. And as far as his obligations are concerned, believe it or not, there are people who do something, not just talk. I'd like to correct the incorrect assumption now. Therefore, it concerns possible overlapping of competences. There is no overlapping of jurisdiction because they are, above all, clearly defined by this bill. Secondly, the council will have 14 members from all ministries just to improve coordination and communication.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6910	Replica, the esteemed representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6911	Thank you. Well, here's Mr. Novak, you pulled an excellent light motive that I forgot about in my debate, which is what if Minister Cacic retreats. I don't mean his health or anything but his public statement that unless the expected growth of 0.8% is achieved, at least let's not be positive... the withdrawals, and what will be, in fact, with this agency or with the energy centre that has just been set up practically in its own way and in a way, and I'm also concerned that then, who will take it. [[You don't understand.]] And also vice president of the Parliament didn't notice when I actually answered the line during Professor Kregar's presentation and wanted to actually support it. And I'm very much like thinking about that trail about these agencies, that the simple number of agencies is enormously large and that we're here, we don't need that being an economic expert, we just need to see a little bit of how people live, what they're thinking, that this policy is a little lost from that social queen, from that social moment where really the state and society are in place and that it still needs to be led. It's easy to get out of the budget of an invisible 18 million kuna and say it's 18 million kuna for an agency, but 18 million kuna in the real world, which is real money, one big pile of money quantified from which some weird agency is created, and it's easy. Yes, it's state money, but it's really quantitatively one money, the money of these taxpayers, and it's easy to build this agency with the state's money, so that agency is going to stay, so they're going to stay, and these agencies are going to stay new, and I think on that trail I would really support the presentation of Professor Kregar. It's easy with the public money just to wake up, it's actually become part of it, this bureaucratic apparatus and the state and administrative one that we've really gone too far with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6912	Here was a kind of replica of getting along not only with what the previous speaker said but even with Mr. Craig's exposure, so I must remind you that you can only replicate who was last speaking. But in this sharp replica, we'll probably hear a sharp response from a colleague named Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6913	Thank you very much. I didn't deliberately mention a statement from Mr. First Deputy Prime Minister who said that in case he didn't make it back, but it would turn out that I'm calling for something of his. I can't even think of giving him a monument because of his work, but I haven't even called anyone else because of my hard work, although no one else is nearly as much of a recordr by the number of functions, a commitment, it's only questionable how many can be executed. And the fact is, my alluding was for example, which we already had, and we had an example that someone had to step down because of the state of health, and definitely nobody wants to. I've alluded to the situation we've already had, not something that could possibly happen. Anyway, thank you very much, dear colleague Đurovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6914	We're continuing an individual debate. It is up to Commissioner Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6915	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respected deputy minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. I absolutely support the adoption of this law, which will be established by the Investment and Competitiveness Agency. And to be clear and clear, this agency is no fair of vanity of certain officials, this is a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia to go as strongly as possible into investment and competitiveness. Of course, I'm not surprised, if we just remember what happened yesterday and what the consequences were of it and where and how it was invested. Above all, relevant data, special and specialized commissions in the EU, a manivore that rated Croatia several years ago, that Eldorado is for money launderers. If you wanted to invest in Croatia, all the doors were open. However, if an investor came forward with verified sources of his own that he wanted to invest, he was facing a great deal of difficulties. One such is the emir state of Qatar and the government that wanted to invest in Croatia. So we can only say for that period if there were an era that differed in its concept of how to start an economy, we have to say that this previous one proved only to its genius that in the '90s it destroyed all our industry. Let's just remember the television broadcasts where the factories, the tall factory chimneys with the general folk joy of those truths that were sent to the labour market tomorrow, and they took part in this big folk event. Of course, now that I think about it, it's about time, and I see that it's quite obvious in this bill, that big investment is particularly encouraged, because everything that we discussed this morning and that bill that talks about fostering small, medium-sized enterprises is not possible unless we have big investments. If we don't start the industry, we'll re-industrize the country. What kind of boredom was the industry that ended, the black industry, which turned us into black, which all shrunk down and whose investments came down into a black bag? Both you and such now all attempts by the government want to minorize. And the register and records and accounting of such business were buried in the garden. Now here's how we have that folk saying "the sworn land of paradise that all secrets should be given away" and I wouldn't do that anymore. Why do I see here and through this proposal of the Agency's founding law even though these remarks are from whatever motives they've been made of because so far, we've put our hands on the heart of the agencies. However, if we also see the composition of the agency where it is actually representing, in addition to having an operational function, it represents, in fact, the coordination of representatives of the most important ministries of resources in the government that are in charge and responsible for investing, for working, for encouraging investment, for enabling investment and for removing all forms of obstruction i.e. bureaucratic obstacles. Of course, with all this, we should also have a reform of the administration in terms of not so much organisational as in terms of responsibility and transparency of entering the state administration and making progress so that the main motto of our administration can be how to solve the subject, not how much energy to spend in order to reject the one who requires some of the bureaucracy. And as long as red tape, the last clerk, from first to last, don't realize that they're there for people, that it's their client and that they imagine that they're just themselves in the private sector and that they have to do the job the easiest way and they need to get to the client and be happy when someone knocks on their door and the main word is welcome to them, and you don't come tomorrow. So that's the basic assumption that we solve anything. Because no matter how many ministers sit in this agency, or representatives of the ministries or ministers, how much the agency will be operational, we still cannot ignore the actions of individual officials and removals and such barriers. I'll just say on one example, so we often talk about how to plastically illustrate what and the difficulties that people with healthy acquired capital face, who have the will and desire to work and produce first and foremost that one ministry, that the two ministries give a positive opinion, give all possible permits, but that some third ministry makes quite the opposite decision. That's a big problem. There's a problem somewhere and local self-government units. Those units of local self-government that were hardworking and valuable had an obstacle often at the state level. And we've got reverse cases. So in one small place, on the island, therefore it is particularly sensitive to our area and takes our special care through a number of laws it is declared and established that precisely those who when they see such one, who are not willing to share or give bribes, then can't. And it seems to him everything to make it impossible. And that's why I see great, I hope my hopes are justified, that right through the agency, because eventually, the agency that's been given a lot of it will be asked for. The agency has great powers and the agency is responsible for obstruction and non-implementation in any ministry. This does not mean denying positive laws, but if it is seen that a legal provision or a sublegal act is an obstacle to such investment, then it is her first to react and so it is necessary to change the law. So change the law that's an obstacle no faster or easier than that. Anything else could just be stories. And I believe that all those who today show great doubts that they will be and I hope pleasantly surprised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6916	Thank you. We have two replicas on this exhibit. First of all, distinguished representative Ruža Tomasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6917	Thank you very much. counterpart Anticevic and the main reason investors ran away with their heads regardless of how inefficient red tape they were. And I was hoping before this agency was founded that regulations or laws would regulate these vast bureaucracys to do their job. Only then might it have any effect. But without a law to regulate where bureaucracy does its job the way it's done so far, there's no movement. It's like opening a beautiful restaurant in one place and then opening it up and you're ready for business and then finding out that you haven't even made access roads. And no one can come to that restaurant. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6918	Another replica, the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6919	Dear colleagues, Ingrid, I expected you as a lawyer to respond to a series of dilemmas that were said on behalf of the club. Why are we setting up a law agency under the jurisdiction of the ministry, not the government? You must admit that this is the first case in Croatia to establish a law state agency that is in the ministry's portfolio, not the government. But well, it's a political decision. What about existing administrations, investment administrations and others for the competitiveness that existed and exist in the ministry? Do they stop, get in the middle of this agency, or do they stay? As far as I know, they stay with 20 and some employees each. And I'm glad you mentioned the situation that two, three ministries give consent and permission for serious investment in Croatia and a third that finds a problem is now called the anti-enterprise climate. So I would ask you to explain to me, on a living example, the role of this agency, for example. Brijuni Riviera where the government opened an international tender for a major investment in Brijuni Riviera and a ministry and a ministry administration appeared once in their decision to disrupt and endanger one investment of several billion euros. So, the head of that agency will then what? If anyone can answer my question.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6920	The last individual debate will be the respected representative of Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6921	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. In this debate, a number of assessments were made, as well as a series of arguments on why this agency was founded. The answer to the question why is it very clear to anyone who has personally tried to legalise some kind of entrepreneurial project in the Republic of Croatia or, as a conscientious official or local official, has been trying to help in a specific area in a particular domain, something concrete is being done. Something from my personal practice as a local official can be commented on in a few sentences, I have witnessed in the last three years the rivers of investors of foreign and domestic people who have tried in various domains of tourism, nautical tourism, economy, construction, agriculture tried to start certain projects clashed with the Croatian reality with the real state of this country when it comes to the functioning of the bureaucratic apparatus. And 90% of them, after a certain time, have exhausted a lot of hopelessness and forgotten the idea that their money is being placed in the Republic of Croatia to launch certain economic projects and to employ a number of our citizens who unfortunately have no business. The following would be to expect parties who prefer to care for the position of workers who should worry about their declared social sensitivity to the unemployed to welcome every effort and attempt by this government, future governments to make something better in this country. What is the true nature of this agency? This agency is actually some kind of shock absorber between what they expect when investors and capital come here that want to invest and what we today can provide with a series of objective or subjective circumstances. This is the aimless wandering of halls of various different institutions from local self-government and, moreover, it is the inequitableness or slowness in the adoption of spatial plans, that is, the contradiction of individual laws, the legal uncertainty for investors arising from individual laws. Someone has to take care of those projects that are of particular importance, and each one today is given what situation we are more or less relevant to the Republic of Croatia. However, it is interesting to focus when talking about such problems that are common Croatian problems in one name. Interestingly, the first Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Radimir Cacic, is a special motivation for individual speakers in this House. I'd like to add one of the Bosniak people to "The dust of good horses." I think at least a lot of people in the deep as they intimately agree with such a finding, or they might comment on it in some family environment, but they won't go public in the assembly. The appointment of this agency to Cacic's agency will pull one parallel, one of my esteemed colleagues, I don't know if there is, no, the esteemed Mayor Vinkovic, fully justified, I support almost every one of my Kartaga-style exhibitions has to burn ends with Djakovack's bachelor. It never occurred to me to date to see this ergel as Vinkovic's bachelor but it makes perfect sense to me that as mayor who is in charge of the functioning of the city of Djakov to care for the valuable components of that city and that effort in any case I welcome. Well, then I won't go so far as to cross that ergel from the traditional Đakova ergel, all of us well known to cross in Vinkovic's ergel. As far as health is concerned, there are those who claim to take care of government officials, and I don't know how it's handled with government officials, but I know that in our House it's settled. We've got systematic checks, someone's responding, someone's not responding, let's not get ahead of ourselves. The debate on whether the agency is also required to set up political hypotheses how it will work is the legitimate right of MPs to be concerned about all the processes that take place in Croatian society and all the decisions made in this House. But there's one big truth you know when you order in the builder to build you a house I don't think any of you have ever analyzed whether he brought 4 builders or brought 6 builders, did he bring mixers for concrete or one. The one who has the task of building your house has the right to choose tools. The results, the approach of the one who took responsibility and the task on himself will be visible because mathematics is an exact science. That is why all of these prejudges of unnecessary elementizations only bother the Croatian public, as well as an audience that should be a serious auditorium who should know some principles when discussing such things as we are discussing today. I will not comment on the legal assessment of the legal basis of this document because I do not consider myself invited because I am not a legal expert, so I am allowing that some colleagues and have noticed some shortcomings about it will be shown by the rapporteur or the deputy State Minister. But in general, it would be normal for everything that is brought into this House as a tool to do the task, and the task is to raise the level of competitiveness of the Croatian economy, to motivate investors, to follow them, and to help remove everything that awaits them in the way of implementation of the project, it would be good to give such tools a chance to give those who take responsibility a chance, and to talk about the consequences of this decision today when this agency has its first annual report, when the results of this government's work are shown and when we analyse the first figures after 12 months of growing investment, about the level of investment in Croatia on the level or the fluctuations of GDP and everything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6922	We have three replicas and one correction on this exhibit. Dear Representative Milinkovic corrects the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6923	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, counterpart Baranovic said that all these discussions and these latents were to bother the audience and the Croatian public. That's not true. This doesn't bother me at all. I think it is the duty of the MPs to discuss and warn about certain things, and of course also to warn about the health condition because health is very important for achieving goals and tasks because if health is disrupted, there is still that mixer of the business that you mentioned then none of the work. Then it's going to be that song, "It's a waste of your effort, players." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6924	They're following the replicas. First respected representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6925	My colleague Baranovic, you have really impressed me with your debate because you have opened up aspects of how the formation of this agency, this new one, is now being put aside by the state or the minister's agencies, because new jobs will be opened. That is indeed the original thought that you said in your discussion. None of the agencies, except those who found a job in it, and most often on the party and party lines, no one else had any use, and neither will this one. And not to be confused, every body of the state government, whether it's the agency, the administration, the institute, which will help the investor and destroy bureaucratic barriers, of course, that they're welcome. But I must remind you that the agency with 60 employees should indeed be a miracle agency to solve the problems in order not only of Croatian employers but also of foreign investors, and in the end the representatives of the European Commission themselves found the problem of non-investment in Croatia. And no one put the agency in first place or the agency's absence, but in the first place is corruption. Then the tax system is due to frequent changes, so the instability of the tax system, then the availability of capital and the high price of capital, then bureaucracy is at all levels. And the European Commission has put a proposal for the establishment of such an agency in the 7th place in the ranking of what Croatia does not object to. The obligation of each representative is to discuss and question, challenge the promoters whether they are sure the proposal is best and to warn that it is really strange for the agency to be set up by law, and to respond to the ministry. Do not give lessons to bother the Croatian public because you are calling for practically calling that no proposal from this aspect should be discussed because we priorities must believe in your good intentions and wait for results.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6926	Time. The next replica, the esteemed representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6927	Thank you. Here is Mr. Baranovic, who is the Mayor of Sibenik, well noted numerous bureaucratic obstacles faced by investors, well detected them, but I don't know if good therapy has been established by the agency. I mean, I guess there's a possibility that those obstacles that replace themselves can be removed in their own work, not just solved by the establishment of a new agency that should remove these obstacles. Also challenge the right to debate the establishment of a state agency that costs taxpayers 18 million kuna a year, so it's not free but 18 million kuna, I don't think it's correct. As for the debate on the agency, this Croatian Parliament will not have the opportunity to discuss the work of the agency because the agency will not report to the Croatian Parliament, only the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And also a brief note on the student ergele, namely by the decision of the Government of Jadranka Kosor lost legal personality so that Vinkovic can no longer be added to it, you assess whose today may be....
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6928	Replica response, distinguished representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6929	I will answer the replica only out of the need to repeat some of my allegations once more. Of course I did not deny the right to talk, I noted that it is your right, I personally experience it in some segments of exposure as a commentation because the debate on Cacic's health in the debate on a serious matter such as the adoption of this agency is by my court unnecessary lamentation. Likewise, the appointment of this agency by any state official, in this case to the first Deputy Prime Minister, I also find it unnecessary. I am personally sorry that the student ergela experienced the fate she experienced and out of respect for the tradition of this ergele, I stress that I will never call it Vinkovic, although applying some of the criteria that were heard in the debates could be entertained with such tricks. And finally, I stress once again, all that has been said are hypothetical political assessments of hypothetical character. Before this agency works and shows the results, I think any claim on its success at the moment is unargumented, but I believe it is quite clear that whoever assumes responsibility to perform a particular task has the right to the tools he considers necessary to do the job. And in this context, I needed to look at this decision, and in this context, people who started in duty should be given the opportunity to carry out the task with certain tools, if they did not, then every kind of debate and the one with the most critical tones would have absolute justification and need. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6930	And the last replica, the esteemed representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6931	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I would suggest to Mr Baranovic to propose a Act on the Protection of Characters and Works of Radiir Cacic since we cannot speak openly about what we think. You said everyone was clear who started some business, had problems, why the agency was set up. In order for one man to solve all problems, the agency is set up, and let's say that the system is launched instead of declaring certain ministers to the superhumans who will move people incompetent, who will declare the laws too high, as Mrs Anticevic said. Mr. Baranovic says the dust is rising for good horses. Mr. Cacic raised so much dust, we've already begun to choke on it. Unnecessarily lamentations tire the public and says Mr. Baranovic should know something. It was us who discussed this law that told the writer's law that we should know something and write a law that would provide some kind of executive power for this agency. Yes, the right to know has taken over, we have been told several times by the first Deputy Prime Minister, the ruling coalition. The rest of us don't even have the right to comment. Those who take responsibility, says Mr. Baranovic, should get a chance. So are we going to subdue the entire state's functioning system to one man, one agency or one body? And what we're going to do is, we're going to cancel democracy and we're going to go back 20 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6932	The replica will be answered by the esteemed representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6933	So listen to your distinguished colleague that we haven't eliminated democracy, it's totally visible and because you have the opportunity to say all these courts and of course it's your legitimate right in a democratic parliament to say what you think. However, it is regrettable that a serious political party debate on a serious institution that has a very serious task described in the proposal for this decision actually transforms into a debate on the character and the work you called one individual even if it was the first vice president of the government. This Parliament and this government were elected by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, they chose what they are knowing very clearly indicated in the pre-election campaign who will be responsible for economic issues in this government. So there were no strangers. It was clear who would be prime minister, it was clear who would be interior minister, it was clear who would deal with the economy. Otherwise, I leave respect for characters and deeds to those who have not been over certain things in themselves as a parliamentary representative, and as a man, I do not respect the character and the work, but I recognize the abilities, since unlike many of my first stamps of the taxpayer, I took out a private job in 19 and 20 years of doing what I was talking about today in this assembly and taught me to recognize people who understand the economy, entrepreneurship and who have solutions to its problems in life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6934	For a 5-minute debate on behalf of the HNS club, distinguished representative Srdjan Gjurkovic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6935	Dear Vice President, Deputy Minister with Associates, Honorable colleagues and colleagues. There may be some final surplus, but after these individual meals to individuals from the government, the order is indeed concluded and to conclude this debate with the topic of this law. Why this law, why the agency? According to the results of the World Competitiveness Year of the leading world economies in which Croatia is located for the 6th year in 2010 we were 56 out of 58 countries entering that ranking. In 2011, we ended up in 58 of 59 places. With these yearbook results, he's absolutely cooperating with our National Competitiveness Council, and that's one of the world's institutions that handles that data. Foreign investment in Croatia's direct investment in 2008 was 4 billion and 200m euros. In 2009, 2 billion and 400 million euros, these are CNB reports. In 2011, an estimate, not yet defined, will be about a billion euros. In the last three months of 2011, there were only 100m euros in direct foreign investment. In the first two months of 2012, according to preliminary data from DZS, exports of goods from Croatia were 1.3 billion euros, which is 8% less than in the same period in 2011. The average export coverage decreased in those two months from 63.1 to 56.7%. Since 2008, 176 thousand jobs have been lost. All point out, not only the analysis of the results of 20 global competitiveness yearbooks, not only the EU, the European Commission, the Croatian National Bank, the Croatian Employers' Association, entrepreneurs, which is crucial, all are unique in the fact that we lack business legislation, that we are not adequate institutions, that it is a bad business climate, that we have bureaucracy, corruption and that it is an inert to help and implement the business ideas of investment. In 2010, the Agency for the Promotion of Exports and Investments set up by the late Prime Minister Racan's government in 2002 was abolished. HDZ's authority has made changes related to the agency for 8 years 4, 5 times. Of course, the Deputy Prime Minister of the Economy was headed by this agency, etc., etc. and most ministers, etc. So it's nothing new, it's just a miracle that they abolished it since it was such prosperity in 2010. And now why the law? Because this Croatian Parliament supports the entrepreneurship initiative, supports investments, supports the state to take a new role, to revise state access, state institutions in relation to entrepreneurship and sends a clear message to all those who want to invest that the Croatian Parliament, not just the Government, stands behind the agency and assumes that responsibility which is very clear and measurable because the figures that I said at the beginning of the presentation on behalf of the HNS Club are measurable. So the government creates and takes over, creates instruments and tools to be friends with entrepreneurs, opens up space to destroy red tape until conditions are created that everything normally works because they are aware that it does not work and that it is stuck, but there has been a lot of speeches. And so we support this law and we believe that this law will not only be implemented through the agency, through its operation primarily through the director and those who will be employed and that it will open up a space for Croatia not to be with these figures that we are with
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6936	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6937	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6938	I call now and Deputy Minister of Economy, Mrs Tamara Obradovic-Mazal, to take the floor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6939	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, and allow me to thank all the distinguished representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament for this truly lively debate, a debate which is certainly at the very least a warning and a great control by the Parliament of what the future agency will do. Let me also express the fact that you've a little bit of a concern for me. In the meantime, I contacted the first vice president and he assures me he's fine. So here I think we can take a breather in that part. However, I would return to what was previously said on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDSS by Prof. The bud and maybe I'd just put my final part through what he saw correctly. No institutional framework, no agency or this, no good intentions, no determination, no responsibility taken over and in the work of this future agency in the face of investors and their experiences that are sometimes really difficult will have an effect unless it is followed by what is Professor. The Pupovac called it a quality investment policy. What should be complemented by this agency is also done and what is being done is at the very least an addition to the investment cycle presented at the Government. The investment incentive programme that we announced will be almost by September which is going exactly in the direction that he has in some way pointed out through his debate, it is an identification from one side of those sectors in which it is really worth investing in but also those sectors in which we, as Croatia, want to come to pay for someone's investment. On the other hand, we haven't had a good strategy so far that's been networked. A good strategy for development and innovation and the application of innovation of new technologies in industry and investor is the possibility of using support and relief because new technologies are dared to be applied in the manufacturing process. And an industrial policy strategy that generates a later development and textile industry strategy, woodworking, food industries, tourism industries, services industries. Services and tourism are also part of industries that must not be neglected in this way. And if in some way we fail and we do not recognise the potential through the support that we can achieve from the EU funds and in some way achieve a multiplicator effect then of course the point of this law and the very agencies and operatives who will be willing to serve and together with it break difficulties, identify them and solve them, of course, that there will be nothing. So, can the law as it's written hit without what I said the point? He can't. There is no other reason why the representative Antičević-Marinović said something about it, which is really just one self-criticity in whether we have a sufficiently friendly face to all investors, not only to foreign investors, but also to our domestic investors who appear daily because they are faced with this or that solution, with a contradictory solution to the city administration's office and, let's say, another ministry. Whether or not we are looking at an investor as either foreign or domestic as a friend or we are suspicious of a legitimate economically justified desire to have a return to investment to earn. It must also be a state but also an investor's legitimate wish, which is why we won't look at it positively but positively. If he earns, the government earns, and the Tax Administration, we all make a living in the public sector. By accepting the amendments that have been made to this text by the clubs or committee, which I thank, of course, with those nomotechnical corrections that were observed during the debate, so by accepting these amendments that may be more focused on the nomotechnics, allow me only one minor essential reference. On Monday, I think I sat down with a representative of an investment group who opened a city up the coast in front of me and said the next thing I know, we're asking permission for these 20m access roads. We have one solution to the local government's competent unit. But you know that part is tied by 6.7 km down the road, solving the congestion of a traffic section which the city actually said was kind of conveniently connected to this 20m, 7km where all the local and construction permits were issued, so it would be convenient to then along the way as it solves these 20m to maybe solve and a 7km lower traffic congestion. Is that something to be asked of investors? Maybe not, but if you have two different solutions about the same thing then I expect the agency to take that paper tomorrow, not the deputy minister, to take those two papers, put the approved location and building permits on the table and go to investigate why the same things might have been solved or issued by two solutions. One at the level of the body of local self-government and the other at the level of the county office. It really doesn't matter who and what locality it is, it's the effect that we may be producing as a bureaucracy ourselves in an investor. It's that distinguished representative Lesar you asked a question of a plastic example, it's a plastic example of a 14-month frisch, and a total of about 5.5 million euros has been invested so far. Here I thank you once again, with a special note to adopt and accept the proposed amendments and thanks for the previous debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6940	I thank the Deputy Minister. That concludes the debate on the text of the law. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6941	We move on to the Final Proposal of the Law establishing an Investment and Competitiveness Agency, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 59. The debate is closed. The applicant accepted the amendments submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and Clubs of Representatives of SDP, HNS, AIDS and HSU A I am voting on the final proposal of the Law. Please, who's in? Against? Restraint? I think one of the MPs was abstention. Am I right? You weren't abstentioned, were you, Mr. Buric? And it's like I saw it with a slip. It's okay. Therefore, I find that most of the votes of 83 votes are for, 28 against, no abstentions to the Act establishing an Investment and Competitiveness Agency in the text, as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6942	I'm going to the next item of the agenda. This is: - Proposal for a Law confirming the Convention on the Common Transport Procedure of the Treaty in the form of an Exchange of Letters between the European Economic Community and the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Finland, the Republic of Iceland, the Kingdom of Norway, the Kingdom of Sweden, the Swiss Confederation relating to the Exchange of Letters and the Completion of the Convention of 20 May 1987 on the common transit procedure of the Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Finland, the Republic of Iceland, the Kingdom of Norway, the Kingdom of Sweden and the Swiss Confederation relating to the amendment and the addition of the Convention of 20 May 1987 on the common transit procedure of the Treaty in the form of an Exchange of Letters between the European Community and the Republic of Iceland, the Kingdom of Norway and the Swiss Confederation concerning the amendment and the amendment of the Convention of the Convention of 20 May 1987 on the Common Transport Procedure and Decision of 3/79. of 23 July 1997 1/2000. of 20 December 2000, 1/2001. of 17 June 2001, No. 2/2002. of 27 November 2002, No. 1/2005. of 17 June 2005, No. 2/2005, No. 3/2005. of 17 June 2005, No. 4/2005. of 15 August 2005, No. 1/2007. of 16 April 2007, No. 1/2008. of 16 June 2008 and No. 1/2009. of 31 July 2009 in the amendments to the Convention on a common transit procedure with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 69 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. I am informed that the applicant's representative does not wish to further explain the proposal. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? I'm opening a debate. There are no reports of a hearing, so I can conclude that we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6943	We are now moving to a statement on the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Convention on the Common Transport Procedure of the Treaty, etc. Now that I'm not reading everything, I suggest you take P.Z. No. 69 if you're in? ... And what happened is that after obviously a long time of these electronic devices that we have here in front of us, which as you can see are very difficult to work out, we tried a partial here with microphones to solve a thing that would cost us about 20,000 kunas that we have in our budget, but 3 million kunas don't have. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It looks like the whole system needs to be rehearsed electronically. So that's why we have difficulty, some microphones work, some don't work, some can get involved, some can't get involved, that's our problem now. ... Yeah, the whole system needs to be formed in this respect that I'm talking about, but otherwise the system needs to be reformed. .../The noise in the hall, the speakers speak in the same voice./... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We'll try, we'll see if we can coordinate and bring into line with these current potentials and base to do this, but we'll always have to check that out, at every session, because only if one doesn't work you know we can't decide for ourselves by the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much. So, I suggest we make a statement about this final bill that's listed somewhere on half the card, and it's marked under P.Z. No. 69 or should I read it? ... /The noise in the hall./... Okay, thank you. So the debate is concluded on the law marked under P.Z. No. 69 and I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? You've got everyone in front of you, so you know what this is all about. Who's against it? Restraint? Thank you. I find that, unanimously, with 114 votes, the law has been passed under P.Z. No. 69.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6944	We move to the next item of the agenda - Final Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the Convention on the Simplification of Formity in Trade in Goods of the Treaty in the form of an Exchange of Letters between the European Community and the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Finland, the Republic of Iceland, the Kingdom of Norway, the Kingdom of Sweden and the Swiss Confederation relating to the amendment and addition of the Convention of 20 May 1987 on the simplification of formalities in trade in goods and the decision of the Joint Committee No. 1/89. of 3 May 1989, No. 2/95. of 26 October 2006 amending and supplementing the Convention on the simplification of formalities in trade in goods, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 73. And here is the proposed law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. And I have been informed here that the applicant's representative does not wish to further explain the proposal. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. No one signed up for debate on behalf of the club or individually, so we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6945	This one's a little shorter, so I'll read it. Therefore, the final proposal for a law confirming the Convention on the Simplification of formalities in trade in goods of a contract in the form of an Exchange of Letters between the European Community and the Republic of Austria, the Republic of Finland, the Republic of Iceland, the Kingdom of Norway, the Kingdom of Sweden and the Swiss Confederation relating to the amendment and addition of the Convention of 20 May 1987 on the simplification of formalities in trade in goods and the decision of the Joint Committee No. 1/89. of 3 May 1989, No. 2/95. of 26 October 2006 amending and supplementing the Convention on the simplification of formalities in trade in goods, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 73. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Against? Restraint? I find this law marked P.Z. No. 73 which I have read, so unanimously adopted with 115 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6946	We move to the next item of the agenda, that is - The Final Proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Financing between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the Croatia-Montenegro Cross-border Cooperation Programme under the IPA 2010 cross-border cooperation component, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 72. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy and the Committee on Environmental Protection. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate that no one has applied for either, so we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6947	The next is the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Financing between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the Programme for Cross-border Cooperation of Croatia-Montenegro under the IPA 2010 cross-border cooperation component, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 72. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 115 votes, the law has been passed under P.Z. No. 72.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6948	We move to the next item of the agenda - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement on Financing between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the Croatia-Serbia Cross-border Cooperation Programme under the IPA 2010 cross-border cooperation component, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 74. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy and the Committee on Environmental Protection. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate that no one has applied for either, so we'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6949	Final proposal for a law confirming the financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the Croatia-Serbia Cross-border Cooperation Programme under the 2010 cross-border cooperation component of the IPA Programme, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 74 is the next point on which we plead. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find it unanimous with 115 votes for the law marked under P.Z. No. 74 delivered.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6950	We move to the next item of the agenda - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Financing between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the Programme for Cross-border Cooperation Croatia - Bosnia and Herzegovina under the IPA 2010 cross-border cooperation component, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 75. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy and the Committee on Environmental Protection. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening up a debate and a debate and I'm closing because no one signed up for it. They vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6951	The next item is the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement on Financing between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the Programme for Cross-border Cooperation of Croatia-Bosnia and Herzegovina under the IPA Cross-border Cooperation for 2010, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 75. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that the bill adopted unanimously is marked under P.Z. No. 75 in the text as proposed by the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6952	And we move to the next item of the agenda, that is - The Statute of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency – Confirmation of the Proposal for a Confirmation Act has been submitted by the Financial Services Supervisory Agency in accordance with Article 6. Law on the Croatian Financial Services Control Agency. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The government delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Croatian Labourists - The Party of Labour for the debate was registered by the esteemed representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6953	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Today is the agency's day, obviously, here we are with another agency, the Financial Services Supervisory Agency of the famous HANFA, which is tasked with taking care of all other factors on the stability of the financial system and overseeing the legality of the business of financial institutions. Financial institutions are banks mainly, investment funds of course and insurance companies in part, but mostly banks. Under the new law on this agency, the Administrative Council shall constitute the Secretary-General, the Administration of the Agency shall form the Secretary-General and the Administrative Council. The secretary-in-chief comes from one of the investment funds. The board of directors is made up of bankers and people from insurance houses. This agency has long been functioning and functioning more or less in a satisfactory way, but it seems to me that we have now kindly invited the fox to oversee the work of the hens and to organise this work to work in the way it works? So how the leaves fit. So people from financial institutions manage an agency that oversees financial institutions. Doesn't that seem strange to you, but in the very sentence? Is it really control or is it another step in that famous deregulation where liberal neoliberal Europe has been sworn for 10 or so years and which has brought us to the bottom where we are not only us but also the good part of Europe. The bankers have been controlling themselves for the last 10 years, 15 years. We've seen the result. The only country that has managed to get out of this in a rough way is Iceland. Which kind of control simply cut and shut down with scissors and said you won't, you won't do it anymore. But we are obviously not able to do it for a thousand and one reason, but obviously we have no political will to do it. The Croatian state and this government have no political will either. Among other things, the name of the agency is HANFA and FINA. Both were founded by a state with certain intentions to carry out certain tasks. Why is their status and mode of action so different? Did it happen by chance by developing a system or is there some intention? I don't usually believe in politics and government. Things don't happen by accident and nobody here is stupid. No one has the right to be stupid. Even if she doesn't have the right to be stupid. Stupid people can't sit around and run the country. So coincidences don't happen, they happen in their intentions. In the previous management of HANFA, people have chosen, worked for a certain time, and then, according to certain criteria, one professional, and another political but leaving. According to the current statute, the Secretary-General of HANFA is coming and staying forever. He's eternal. Are we going to have another football alliance, a man who, after 20 years, we're going to have to move some strange ways I don't know, but I don't think that the management of one state agency is possible effectively in that way unless you want to have all the ends in not one hand, in two hands, and as in the case of this previous agency correcting everything that's wrong in the country because I know best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6954	On behalf of the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Drazen Djurovic will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6955	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, have found us truly at this speed that we've done some agenda points, we've been expecting a debate on this point tomorrow, but no good. The proposal, in the debate earlier, means when we adopted the new HANFA Act and when we brought a new composition of the HANFA Governance Council, we made a whole series of remarks and the reasons why we were against this kind of structure as it was brought to the HANFA and especially on the composition of the Governing Council, which is now stated again in the previous debate. Recently a few weeks ago, the proposal of the HANFA Statute went and this proposal of the Statute was withdrawn from the procedure and is now restored. I was hoping that this new proposal of the statute would eliminate some of the illogicalities that I assumed the promoter had noticed, but apparently not. Well, here's what I'd like to point out briefly in this present proposal. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. – President and members of the Governing Council, therefore in the first row when it comes to conflict of interest of the members of the Governing Council, which we stressed is illogical and what Mr Vuljanic previously mentioned that the meanings of the control case of the HANFA itself came to the heads of the administration precisely the people who worked at the main posts of those institutions which are the subject of the control of the HANFA. In most other institutions, this has been disabled and thus prevented conflict of interest. Here it is enabled and that is how we formed the meaning of the Administrative Council of HANFA. With the best intentions of these people and the most honorable intentions, there is a certain danger of a potential conflict of interest. How is this conflict of interest defined by this proposal of the Statute? One example, Article 11(5). - the President and members of the Management Board shall not accept membership in the Management Board or the Supervisory Board of Supervisors within 1 year of the termination of their duties in the Agency. Therefore, after termination of membership in the Governing Council, they should not work for a year in institutions, i.e. institutions subject to HANFA's supervisory work. However, at the same time in paragraph 7, they are guaranteed that the President and members of the Governing Council will be entitled to compensation in the amount of the last salary paid in the month preceding the discharge of the new employment and for a maximum period of one year from the day of termination of their duties. I haven't noticed in which other agency, institution, and even in the state administration, it allows someone after they have ceased their duties for another year to receive full pay and that is precisely during this period until they can re-employ at some losing house or insurance company from which they came. And this proposal means a year you can't get a job in that institution you came to but you'll get full pay. And when that year's up, you can get a nice job. I don't see why the Croatian state is making these people consciously accept this work for one long term, why are they being provided for another year's full salary to members of the board? When it comes to the Director or the Secretary-General, since it is an institution, for example, when it comes to the Secretary-General, there are very restrictively numbered conditions under which it will be resolved, very restrictively and well. It will, among other things, be resolved in the case of a final conviction of a criminal offence in the area of economic activity or against a capital market. But the same provision does not apply to members of the Board of Directors. They will be resolved only in the event of a final sentence of imprisonment for acts in the area of economic business or for criminal offences against the capital market. So, just for serious crimes that have prevented prison punishment. Almost untrustworthy. When it comes to the President of the Board of Directors or his deputy or deputies, there is a whole set of strange provisions. This is Article 14 of this Statute. Therefore, the Deputy President of the Governing Council should be elected by the administrative council by a majority of votes. The deputy is elected Deputy President of the Governing Council for a period of 18 months, and will then be able to re-election the Deputy President of the Governing Council every 18 months after that. I don't know what this model of choosing a deputy comes from. And there are deputy vice presidents. So we've already freaked that out. The President shall therefore, in paragraph 5 of Article 14 of the Governing Council, designate another member of the Governing Council to carry out the tasks of the alternate if the Vice-President of the Management Board referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article is absent or prevented. So we have the possibility that there are also deputies of the Deputy President of the Governing Council. It's just incredibly insane what duties they're deputy officers. He's replacing the president, but the deputy, the deputy, it's already overnoding in every way. What's going to happen to the president and the deputy? Since unless they are sentenced to prison sentences, they will not be changed by then, or they will ask for a resolution. Therefore, we suggest that with these remarks that we have now made, and there are others to be like this, there is also advice from the agency. Yeah, and the agency's advice. So other than that board of directors, other than that secretary, there is still advice. Now the advice now it's not like HNA's advice is whether this is another thing that's additionally giving this one quality to that administration. I don't see the need for advice at all, and what's the point of that advice is really hard to understand. All in all, we hoped that these and many other things in this Statute were very strange and unusual and that they do not meet in other statutes that since the statutes were withdrawn that they would now be changed, here in this new text we find them again. So it's actually our suggestion that this Statute should retreat again because we will not be for this form of the Statute. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6956	Thank you very much. And another debate on behalf of the club on behalf of the HNS club, distinguished representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6957	Dear Vice President, respected by a member of the board of directors of the agency, colleagues and colleagues. So, on behalf of the HNS Club, we're very short, but we've been offered these discussions in the past. So what is crucial for this Statute and for the work of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, which is that it is directly responsible for the Croatian Assembly, that any form of influence on the work of the Agency which could question its independence and independence and that it is one of the essential agencies in the Republic of Croatia in the financial sector for the regulation of the capital market, investment and other funds, pension insurance, etc. This Statute can be said that no statute is perfect, but what is crucial is that it brings the possibility that it can be better done, that the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency can perform the part of the work needed in Croatia today before the EU's entry, and it is also related to the part that we discussed slightly and bilely before and related to investment. We therefore ensure this Statute that it can do so properly and in quality with absolute and complete responsibility of all those chosen or will be chosen to work for the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency so that this Croatian Assembly with its instruments, its committees, can monitor and respond in a timely manner and I believe that there will be no need for the work of the CNFA. This is the key that this Statute brings us and that is why we support the adoption of this Statute to finally HANFA and even better work we believe with the professional chosen people. And it's good that people are from the profession and it's good that people who have experience come to such places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6958	I thank my colleague Gjurkovic. That's what ended the discussion. The decision to confirm the Statute of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency will be made when the conditions are met. And now I think this is a perfectly convenient time for us to stop working today. We'll continue tomorrow at 9.30 a.m. at regular number 13, that's the Annual report on the work of the Governing Council of HINA. Thank you, everyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-25-0.u6959	We now move to a statement on the Statute of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency – confirmation. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting in favour of the decision to confirm the Statute of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, so I would like to make it clear who is in favour. Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that the decision was taken by majority vote, 83 votes in favour, 8 against and 24 abstentions.
