ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1766	Thank you very much. Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Šprem, dear colleagues, dear colleagues. So before you is the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act, which consists of three main points. As you know, we are in the first session of the government, the first item was the government's regulation, mainly because of the state of emergency medical care. So emergency medical care was partly well imagined, partly well carried out, but most of the disastrous performance. And I was therefore warned by the profession of three cities, the city of Split, the city of Osijek and the city of Zagreb and their mayors. Mayor Sanader, Mayor Šišljagic and Bandic say the situation is in emergency medical care if you do not react will be alarming with inconceivable consequences and possible incident situations. Therefore, the first point was precisely this change of law, so that we give a transition period from 6 to 12 months to the founder and his own emergency medical care, which is the county or the City of Zagreb to consider further concept of emergency assistance. Emergency medical attention is a mirror of the organisation of the health system. When you go outside when you present your country, they ask you two things, what is the transplant program on one side and what is the emergency medical attention. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I'm sure that none of you have, therefore, been in large clinical centres since you seem very healthy, but you've certainly all been in medical care as well. You were in emergency medical care because you broke your arm because you had an allergic reaction to a bee sting because you had an allergic reaction to the sun, you and your children and your grandchildren, and so it's said that the emergency medical attention mirrored the organisation because it measures three parameters. First, the knowledge and effectiveness of doctors and staff in emergency medical care. Secondly, the speed of organising their action in terms of detecting problems and therapy, it's a famous one hour or 15 minutes in the urban middle of 30 minutes in the rural environment. And the third, perhaps most importantly, is the humanity, the altruism of that staff. Not only because of us 4.5 million Croats, but also because of 11 million tourists passing through our homeland. So knowledge, organization and humanity and altruism. Since I belong to older doctors, I worked for three years in primary medical care and spent every fourth night in medical care. So, I know very well and appreciate it, every fourth night I was on duty in the ER, I was awake and I was providing emergency medical attention and I know very well what emergency care in Croatia looks like. Therefore, I ask you to support the amendments and amendments to the Health Protection Act, in particular as regards this segment. The other two segments are a matter of concession. As you know, concessions have started in the process. Most concessions have been resolved, but of course there have been complaints, complaints, complaints from some of our colleagues, and until the State Public Procurement Commission solves a period of 6 months and for this segment of the Health Protection Act. And the third, as you know, there are healthcare professionals in the system, specialists who don't meet the legal conditions for rent, so we'll give them an alternative. One is to return to the home of health, which I think is good, good for providing specialist services to all our citizens and citizens, to our public in the home of health. And the second is to be renters of perse but not under uncensored terms, not at the benefit of a guaranteed lease, because the lease of the note has not changed since '95, so good 16 years, but at the right market prices. So, Mr. President, dear colleagues, please accept our bill. As Mr. President, Mr. Šprem has said, our parent committee has been discussing, but of course, the Legislative Office which has given us the amendment that we fully accept, Mr. President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1767	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Here you go. Ms Biljana Borzana is the chairman of the Health and Social Care Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1768	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Health and Social Care at the 1st session of the Committee held on 19 January 2012 discussed this proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act with the Final Proposal for a Law submitted to the President of the Croatian Parliament by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 12 January 2012. The opening statement was tabled by a representative of the Proposer or Deputy Minister of the Master's Office, Marijan Cesarik. In its opening statement, the applicant's representative explained that the proposed amendments and additions to the Law in order to preserve the status of current private health workers who, according to the current legal decisions, would have ceased to work on 31 December 2011, had not been given a solution to grant work in private practice on the basis of the concession of the Regulation amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act, the deadline of the units of the regional and regional self-government to implement the concession procedure until 30 June 2012. If that procedure is not carried out within that period, it will be carried out by the Ministry of Health by 31 December 2012. The proposed law also lays down the start date of work of the Emergency Medical Service of the Regional Self-Government Units until 30 June 2012, as well as the possibility of carrying out the activities of the Sanitary Transport in the Emergency Medicine Offices in accordance with the decision of the founders of those health institutions. After the discussion, the board members decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament, by a majority of votes, 6 for and 3 abstentions, to adopt the Law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act in the text, as proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1769	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HNS club, Mrs Nada Turina-Đuric first applied. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1770	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party will, of course, support these proposals to supplement and amend the Health Protection Act, since we are quite clear that the legal deadlines for individual systems in the healthcare system have expired at the moment. First of all, this is a matter of urgency, but it is also a process of concessioning which unfortunately is not done in the territory of the entire Republic of Croatia as it is imagined and unfortunately I have to conclude it is not done in a key place because Zagreb and should be a mirror for the whole of Croatia, it is not done in Zagreb. This will be another new task in front of our government, or our minister, to tackle the wider and the problem, whether what was meant to be achieved by concessioning is what is best for the profession and, above all, for our citizens or for patients in need of health care. We think this is an opportunity to warn just these few points that are changing to problems in the system and in some way divide here with the minister because he himself has pointed out certain problems, to share with the minister some thinking or direction in which the entire system should be solved but certainly re-evaluated throughout its width, especially in this segment of primary health care. Of course, extending the E.R. deadline in the whole area is something that makes sense. In fact, you know that there have been many problems, that unfortunately there have been very unkind events since the emergency system is actually well imagined, but at the moment the implementation took place at that time, the whole system was not ready to transport the new emergency system. And we think that, apart from these changes, we very quickly, if we want to, of course, retain an emergency system that will intervene only in emergency cases and set it on top of the highest standards as it is in most European countries, then we must also provide the second self-port which, of course, at the time the emergency started to work only life threats was left to ourselves. The key problem is the formation of the meaning of the center of family medicine which, in most cases, did not survive in the Republic of Croatia. They did not live for a simple reason because no rules were adopted in which to form them, how to finance them, how to include all doctors in primary health care on duty. It was said very unmistakably in the draft law that it was meant to be on duty, i.e. to do this work by the doctor and sisters of their salaries from the chieftains in a very minor amount that did not cover some basic costs. Of course, there is also a question of the cost of home health that must organise these same centres that are not also foreseen and for this reason it did not live up to it, and without them it was de facto not able to quality-live a new system or emergency medical reform. So here's as a HNS club we're kind of taking advantage of the opportunity and we want to give some guidance, hopefully it's going to come very quickly, it's very urgent because on the ground, unfortunately, there are situations where such problems are being dealt with, and where it's mostly going to hurt the founders of these institutions, so in this case county, and we know what situation regional self-government budgets are in. As for the KKZ, it means specialist consulars or proposals to enable them to return to the home of health, we certainly support this proposal, and we think that, in essence, the SKZ needs to be further encouraged to develop and even at this primary level, knowing how much the burden of the hospital and clinical system is with these very specialist reviews and how much more expensive the system is in financial terms than if we finance it through the KKZ system. In this direction, then, some incentives should also be given to developing the KKZ at the primary level. The motion to separate the emergency, i.e. detachment of the sanity or the possibility of sanity being within the emergency as it once was, and according to this law which is now in force he was within the home of health, was once within the emergency room. Well, there were suggestions, and when the law worked out that it would be a big problem on the ground, it didn't have to separate the sanity from the ER, but it went into it, and some of the county did. There's been a lot of money invested in these changes. 100 of them have already been revived. This bill could say, which means we don't have to re-connect the sanity to the ER, which means we're going to leave it to the founders. I'm not sure it's a good solution, or the ministry should take a final stand. It's either like this or it's like that. If it's best to have it within the E.R., then that's how I, i.e. by HNS, should, in our opinion and establish it. So here it is clear to me that two weeks of this government, or three weeks of this government and the ministry that has a whole series of problems in the system, isn't enough time for a wider change, a change that will surely welcome us and wait for us. But here I appeal that this is one system that really is, it would have to be out of politics and he would have to live every day normally for the benefit of our citizens, our patients. So here's what I'm appealing for. We'll support this, but I'm calling for a broad procedure of amending the law as soon as possible, as well as a rule that will allow for the quality of the functioning of primary health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1771	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1772	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. I'll start at the end, so keep it simple on the words of a colleague from the HNS. It is true that Articles 1 and 2 states that health care at the level of the Emergency Medicine Institute may also include sanitary transport. At the same time as talking about the organisation of the Emergency Medicine Institute in Article 111 you can see, that's paragraph 5. It says that the Department of Emergency Medicine in County, let me put it this way, that in short the regional self-government implements emergency medical emergency transport standards by road, air or sea or river let me say so. Now, we have these two, I'd say, or we have a contradiction. Here says colloquiially it may have a unit of sanity transportation services, and here it says that in Article 111 that the Emergency Medicine Office must have a transport on either a water or an airway. Now, that's not settled, this is not the proposal that solved it. Either he can or he doesn't have to, or he can, or he has to, or he just has to. It is true that it was mirrored by the minister of one country of emergency medicine at least as far as health care is concerned, as in tourism, mirrored a catering facility so that someone doesn't misread my toilet as they say. But what has been done in these 20 years in Croatian health is contrary to what almost the whole world has accepted on the basis of learning and the basis of what is our professor. Andrija Printar established and claimed quite a long time ago that the homes of health and therefore primary health care carriers and those who are truly most important in the health of a nation as our Ministry of Health is called, to paraphrase a little. But what happened to our primary health care in the last 20 years? Some unmistakable foggy privatisation or semi-privatisation or attempt to do so led to our health homes today looking like I'm not going to say that I wouldn't experience any criticism from my colleagues that it consists of a pharmacy, a director and a couple of officials. And that's even in our capital in Zagreb. It's a home of health in a form designed by the esteemed and late professor. The printer. Home of health which provided services from hygienic and epidemiological services to health care in segments of pa and maternity care,... There's no more of that anywhere. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's my colleague Vinkovic fighting to get that birthplace back to Djakovo, so no way. But that'll come back. So we're also in the proposals of the last government and in the conduct of it it's decided to separate, so to say the Emergency Medicine Department of the Health Department. At the same time, there has been no adequate replacement in emergency hospitals at home, so there have been side effects and cases where we now have a problem and where doctors are being accused, etc. It is one disorganization or conduct of emergency medical care or emergency medical care services without a team or team being provided at the same time when the doctor is in emergency medical care from the field office, on the highway or exited due to some car accident there will be no replacement. Either we team up an emergency medical care facility so there's a replacement available, or there's gonna be a health care facility that runs out of emergency medical care to organize a full-time twenty-four hour service, and then a child who has angina or someone who suspects he's got high blood pressure, and he's got a problem with his head being able to measure the pressure not in the ER, but in the home of health. There's another segment that I've mentioned in the last sixth session but it's not getting rid of it, or anyone who'd say people care about it, which is that maybe one of you can because they have a friend. Can anyone get dental service in health care homes or anywhere else unless they go to a private to call him on the phone and pick him up from Friday at 14.00 to Monday at 8:00, and his tooth hurts for 3 days. He can't. No dental services, especially emergency services. I mean, he's got dental, but he doesn't have an emergency. There is no help, but you should drink clearly either analgin or go back to burdening the ER with your toothache. There's a lot of trouble in sir, now the secretary of state is not a deputy minister, I have to manage until it's settled. So there's a lot of health problems and practical problems. There's not a lot of philosophy to be organized. All we have to do is have a good will, but unfortunately, they say in the east there as much music as they do here and here. If we are to provide both available and adequate emergency services, then it is certainly worth it. As for this section that speaks of leases, concessions, private departure of doctors, etc., this has already been carried out for more than 2 years and cannot be arranged. It's a good thing this bill has given us a deadline of six months before we can fix it. I'm afraid of something else in implementing these measures. I'm afraid there's going to be a doctor drain in private, so to speak, the health sector. And this is how we complain that we do not have enough doctors and that the possible possible entry into the EU will result in a further reduction in the number of doctors and effusions of doctors, not in Croatia, but in private institutions, but also in EU countries. In order to educate a doctor and to be effective in his, to be as the minister of altruist said and to have knowledge with the proper organisation of health care takes years, not to say 10 years, while he is 6 years old and specializing then practice and internship, etc., it is indeed a long-term process and the state cannot find 2 or 3 hundred doctors. One more thing is important, here says in this implementation of this law no additional funding from the budget is required. A very convenient finding that would make a man say we're going to vote for it right now. There is no need for funds from the budget. Is HZZO resources needed? You win at the pot, and you lose – you get on the bridge, you lose on the pot. Furthermore, are the county funds needed? So we decentralized health care, primary health care at the county level, the Emergency Medicine Institute is also the founder of the county, and where are the county money for that? Especially in our Slavonian counties, which are the last for GDP as someone said for competitiveness and for all other parameters of economic and economic, all 4 counties except Osijek-Baranja County which has nevertheless bounced something, thank God thanks to HDSSB. ... No, it's not, it's a little off topic, but good. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Or off the cannon, yeah. I wanted to say that the decentralised function of healthcare is in the primary segment, but this is not accompanied by adequate financial impact from the state. Since the county, as Nova Gradiška, a colleague of Vukovic is here the mayor of Nova Gradiška who has a problem, let him say freely here, has a problem with the organisation of emergency medical assistance in Nova Gradisca, i.e. there is a problem and a point of emergency assistance in Okucani. There are four points in Brod-Posavina County, and especially in Vrpolje where it should also be because of the shape of the county itself that affects over 130 km of length where the highway passes and the 10th railway pan-European corridor. So, two important traffic routes 10th pan-European corridors, highway A3 and railway corridor is. For this reason, I also have observations from the citizens of Gradiška in the sense that availability has been questionable on several occasions and that Mr. Deputy Minister or how is he, where is the minister? It's around here somewhere. To take care of it and account for it. On the Health Committee, I raised my hand for this proposal because it solves in that organisational sense concession, lease and private. It's one small step forward, though delayed and delayed for two years, but here's another half a year, so it can be delayed. And yet, as far as the Emergency Medicine Institute is concerned, I think there are good intentions and good faith that in this sense, and even after our discussions continue to take place in the establishment and in the good functioning of the Emergency Medicine Institute, clearly on the basis of again and guided by the fact that the mirror of the health of a country, and especially now that, with those 11 million tourists and a great frequency, Croatia is in such a place in Europe that it is indeed on several traffic routes that emergency medicine is to be mirrored that it will still need to invest. Are these state funds, HZZO's, County? This should be clearly agreed between these structures in order to make it work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1773	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists Ms. Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1774	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Here's my predecessors all of what they said definitely stands. The question arises how ready we are and for this six-month delay we are looking for. Namely, the Law on concessions was to be implemented within 1 year, i.e. by 1.01.2010. The Health Law states unless the units of regional self-government do so within 3 months. That didn't happen, the law was extended until 31.12.2011, so that today we can extend the law for another 6 months. There is a question of what is wrong, what is wrong, and why is the Law on concessions expanded so many times and not implemented in reality? As far as emergency medical services are concerned, there is a problem, unfortunately this strategy we have come up with has already cost us in several cases. And when we're talking about the Ministry of Health here today, or health pardon, it's that we're proposing a prolongation of these laws. However, everything remains in regional self-government units. If the regional self-government unit fails to implement the concession, the question is how capable it is, quality to implement an emergency medical aid policy. What I mentioned yesterday on the Committee, I will mention today, what we always talk about big cities, those small towns, that we don't talk about islands, we often ignore, it turns out that those who are more up-to-date, those who are better have already invested a large part of their resources in reviving emergency medical aid and sanity transportation. And what I agree with is definitely what the minister said was urgent medical aid in disaster. Unless the county is able to organize emergency medical aid teams to help the centres of family medicine jump in. What we hear from the family doctor is that they just don't feel like doing emergency work after 20 or more years of doing family, family medicine. On the other hand, the law also says that providing emergency medical attention can be performed by an emergency specialist, plus a nurse or a technician. The next question to be raised is what about equipment or infrastructure that must surely be necessary for those centres of family medicine to do quality work and provide a service to the citizen at the time he asks for that medical assistance. Whether the counties have the money to cover all these costs is a question asked by a HDSSB colleague, I think it is a question that we should all deal with together, we agree that this deadline should be extended, but we also think that we should all think very much about how the emergency medical assistance strategy will be brought back to life on the ground and how people will be satisfied with it. What about family medicine doctors? Who pays their overtime, or so on. I think there is simply one quality cohesion between the profession and this law that has been passed. Certainly the Labour Club supports this six-month delay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1775	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Just to inform you, members of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget that the session will be held at 11 o'clock because it was called by the chairman of the Committee by Mr. Representative Srdjan Gjurkovic at Chamber of Janka Draskovic, number 202. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1776	Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Thus, the 2008 Health Protection Act, which was nomulated on several occasions, laid down the principles and measures of health care. He established the rights and obligations of the user but also established a way of organising health care. In this regard, therefore, the concession as one concession model was introduced as an organisation of public health care, public health services on primary protection. The deadlines were set, we heard from counterpart Tyrell that it was due by 2010, so it was extended to 31. 12. In 2011, but at the very beginning of the concessions, experts gave one definition that concessions were one legal, complex, economic and health matter and this proved to be when they were introduced and encountered various difficulties and was prolonged and in this sense came this change. Why? Because it took 5,000 entities from that lease position to sort of introduce it into a concession position, so to speak. In 20 counties, the award of concessions has been completed, but in the city of Zagreb there has been some problems, and in this sense there is this change and there is really nothing to say. But it's also commendable I'm going to say that he takes care of those people who have not achieved their right, that they can exercise the right to work within the home of health and that my own, there is a procedure that can be done within that and that director to have the advantage, it's all clear but that also so that those who have not realized that they can continue to work, there must express our caution and thinking that they can continue to work in that area but under market conditions. Doctors will certainly, I believe that they will manifest themselves in this sense cannot think in that way because they do not operate in the market, but also in circumstances if we say that the minister will announce to the doctors of family medicine in which they rise that they should 80 percent do a service that will further reduce their headage by 10%. I wonder what Dr. Malnar and the Doctor's Association will say, I must express that reserve in that sense everything I said earlier. Of course emergency medicine is like the second change of course we need it, and I'm also joining the words the minister said that it mirrored the health system. I appreciate, of course, the caution that comes with emergency medicine, because when something happens in emergency medicine, and then it's really something difficult, and when we witness it, then it's really dramatic. In that sense, we heard clearly that this prolonging was going on. We've witnessed too often in our health care system prolonging. I have to say it too often, and in that part I have to express caution and it's urgent medicine that doesn't tolerate prolonging, it doesn't suffer that model can, but it has to, in the survival chain where we're very thin in the world, in the survival chain is known in the world how it's done, and in that part this model may, we need to express one restraint. Furthermore, with regard to also separation and sanitary transport, it works in some areas, and we must express some restraint in this way, because emergency medicine must be done now and immediately because when it is not done, there is always those unwanted consequences that we are witnessing. I'm glad the Minister of Health is Dr. Ostojić said that in the reform of emergency medicine good and significant steps have been taken, we have witnessed this, and in this sense I want to encourage you to continue vigorously, without delay, to work on these foundations because if we allow various fluctuations it can have even greater consequences and in this sense, the Croatian Democratic Community Club will remain restrained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1777	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, Ms. Biljana Borzana. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1778	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleagues and fellow MPs, deputy deputy minister. Here's to the end, I think I'm the last one in the name of clubs if I'm not mistaken for a few words. It's already been said more or less. Here on behalf of the ruling party, I would like to thank and thank you in the final line on support of the opposition debate of Mr Milinkovic and support in the brave moves that await us in the coming period of our government, because the situation in health as well as in many other segments of the functioning of our society is extremely difficult. As for these amendments and the addition of the law, I would like to say at first that the SDP club will support these changes. Since it's about small but important changes to make the system work. Of course, yesterday and on the board, we discussed only 4 points, but in some parts only one sentence has shown that there are certain problems in operation and therefore the need to make these small but important as I have said changes. In primary healthcare, the introduction of concession institutes required reform of the found lease system. It's here as we heard it didn't arrive in time so there was an extension of deadlines. I think about the reforms of health care every health minister came here to kneel, so from professor. Hebranga, Reinera, Andre Vlahusic, Minister Milinovic, all spoke about health reforms. Reforms are necessary health care does not work properly. But here and today we see that there are major problems in the functioning of healthcare we have that the primary health care has not yet been able to make it so to say discharge for hospitals, so maybe even the day-to-day situation is getting harder. So we all constantly complain that it fails in primary health care and we try and motivate our colleagues in primary health care that the more they do work to relieve hospital care. But what happens in practice? We have a partial number of hospitals that went into the concession and that have very few patients, so not enough for that basic survival in inadequate areas. On the other hand, we have hospitals that are in line with the legal options with a lot of insurance companies, so it happens daily that doctors process 80 or 90 patients during their working hours and then we really wonder how health reform and how the relief of secondary health care can happen when you have people on one side who are not motivated here because they can't solve their existence because they have too few patients, on the other hand, those who are overworked and can't process patients well enough. So, basically, there's a lot of trouble. Unfortunately, for days we have been dealing with the thesis whether to tell the ministry correctly or home to health or health care, so it was a top topic when you type into Google, problems in family protection or in health homes then you will appear mostly titles related to this problem semantically so what is rightly grammatical to say. The most important thing in all of this in all these problems of the functioning of the system is that patients are dissatisfied because they are in the extreme line of those that make the system work and exist and everything breaks over their backs. So here is certain that this small procedure under the law will be voted in the House but the big procedures are waiting for us to essentially change things for the better. These changes are also allowed, as my predecessors have said, as well as the health minister that Sanitary Transport remains under emergency medical supervision. Also for the time being, a small change but also a complete reform of the emergency medical care must go because, as it is said, the failures due to the possibly bad organisation that is going on in the emergency care are mainly with dramatic consequences. And that's what we want to avoid anyway. This change will allow health funds not to be overused further, not to spend extra, which at this point I think is clear to everyone that this is extremely important. When we see how much debt health is, so it's billions of kunas if we really respect 60-day payment deadlines, then any kuna that can be saved is welcome. That's why we're in the middle of the line here, and I'm going to point out here one more time, and we had to give up some of our pre-election promises based on the facts that the former minister and the former government have given up, which is that the health system is financially stable. So it's definitely not. The minister often said that the situation is practically both dramatic and therefore every step that leads to saving or keeping at the same level, the financial situation is welcome. So I'm thinking first of all to explain that we promised that the pension tax would fall from 3% to 1.5. In the first six months, unfortunately it is now we will have to extend to the full term. So to conclude the health care system is in a rather difficult situation, as is the whole state but I'm not a pessimist. I think that with the real government's moves with the support of the Parliament, which will certainly happen and with the support of health workers whose enthusiasm actually rests, the quality of the health care system can be improved so as not to say better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1779	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1780	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Borzan said that this is a small procedure which is actually a major procedure that will significantly fix things for the better. I say this is not an emergency procedure that must be made in these circumstances to solve the existing problem. Furthermore, you said that in primary health care, things still haven't worked out for the better. I want to tell you that doctors in primary health care determine a large part of the job, from health care in the house, from help. These are all things that have come within the framework of family medicine doctors. And that's why I'm afraid and I'm expressing my reservations about this intention to lower my head for family medicine doctors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1781	Thank you. You see how relatively this correction of an incorrect quote, now it's a question of what's true, and the other side can't react. We're moving on to an individual debate, and that's what the first Mrs. Vrbat Tanja called for. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1782	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Your Honor, Deputy Minister of Health. This proposal to amend and supplement the Health Protection Act, as already said, is a fire-fighting, emergency measure. He is certainly welcome, although I find it necessary to make such a change three or four months ago. At that time, many tragic, unfortunate, and clumsy situations faced by citizens in certain parts of the Republic of Croatia and the entire health system that was in considerable chaos could be prevented. These are minimal, necessary and urgent changes, and I am very supportive of them at this time. This is a ceasefire and an emergency intervention to avoid the use of something that our healthcare system is certainly unprepared for. I will refer only to a few aspects that include directly or indirectly this law. I have to look back on these aspects because I live and come from the middle which is the richest part of Croatia, but on health care we are here at the very end of the country. It's about Umag and Bujština, it's my neighborhood, my town, which is 100 km away from the first Croatian hospital, full of 100 km to Pula or 120 km to Rijeka. Minister Ostojic was recently in Umag, familiar with citizens' problems, spoke with the profession, and I thank him on this occasion for coming to know our problems on the ground. It was before the known termination of the so-called so-called. the abolition of emergency assistance in my city, i.e. a new reorganisation of emergency medicine that is the middle of Istria, such as the one I come from, left without on-call doctors and night duty. It was a shock to our citizens, there was panic, spontaneous reactions by citizens, petitions. Namely, this ambulance of ours was some kind of mini hospital where we all saw some kind of nearest to us hospitals, and then overnight it was allowed for citizens from that area to remain without 24 hours of available healthcare. They then intervened in the panic unit of local self-government, cities and municipalities to which this applies and were prepared to cover the costs of their urban and municipal budgets, although we know very well that it is not in their jurisdiction. The life of citizens and their health is, however, an important issue both cities and municipalities have decided to jump into solving this burning problem. Too often from Zagreb, it is difficult to understand the needs of citizens in other parts of Croatia, so I thank the Minister for being with us and I believe that what he saw there will be remembered and guided in his future work. The question is now what, given that this law extends the deadlines of entry into force of the emergency medicine reform, which is with the environments or counties that have hurried and which have entered, I would say somewhat irresponsible in these changes. What now when cities and municipalities themselves from their budgets plan to cover emergency medical teams. I note that I personally am not against the emergency medicine reform, although I believe it is necessary but should be well prepared and surely this change gives enough time for the whole system to be prepared. It is necessary to work hard on the education of citizens and explain to people that for toothache, headaches do not go into emergency, it is necessary to educate people and healthcare professionals in this sense and prepare for changes. However, health care must be provided to the citizens somewhere, and in the family medicine that we know is also part of this problem because they did not accept duty. I therefore hope that at least in the rest of Croatia, when it is not already in Istria, the whole system will adequately prepare for this reform. As for emergency medical care in Umag, it covers the cities of Buje, Novigrad, the municipalities of Brtoniglu, Grožnjan and Oprtalj. It's about 30 thousand inhabitants. I note for those who do not know that from Oprlje to Umag it takes 45 minutes to drive in those ideal conditions of driving and time. The level of health care with us, our citizens say, is at the level of the Middle Ages. We knew each other sometimes in trouble and joked at our expense and said that our first ambulance would soon be in Gospić. And so I'm going to relate to another problem that's holding me back and it's kind of indirect, but it's still connected to the amendment and addition of this law. It is about the Pula hospital, i.e. the hospital care of the citizens of Istria and Bujština. The Pula hospital is certainly something for which every person in Istria, and I believe the Republic of Croatia as a whole, is clearly a hearty advocate. It needs to be built and equipped because now what it is certainly does not satisfy Istria's needs. For us, however, whatever hospital it is now or in the future, it is far away. It'll always be far away. Umag will never get close to Pula or River. Therefore, I also met the deputy minister, but also the minister with this problem and the desire of the citizens of Bujština to ensure at least minimum capacity for my fellow citizens and from Bujština in the hospital in Izola in neighbouring Slovenia. With the Slovenian government, I believe that some sort of solution can be found bilaterally in this regard. I believe that the Slovenian side will also support it, given that this hospital has been capacitated for the citizens of Bujština and in the former state when it was built it was conceived as a hospital for the domicile population in my area. There departments of yap empty, and we citizens of the Vijština who can literally see through the window that hospital when we need hospital care we need to take a long way to Pula or Rijeka. The 15km to the isolation hospital became an insurmountable obstacle after the creation of independent republics of Croatia and Slovenia. We know that in some diagnosis and medical conditions it is very important to operate within a very short time, so ensuring these beds at least in minimum amounts for our fellow citizens in the isolation hospital is something that will really save lives. I believe that the cities and municipalities of Bujština, and in this I will help, together with the Ministry of Health, will participate in the realization of this project because it is a question for us, however, too important. I know that the minister is aware of this and I believe that it is possible to find the best model of cooperation with neighbouring Slovenia as soon as possible. That would mean a lot from that area. She's pulsed too far. We're not from that area by chance born in Coprus. Thank you for letting me work this out a little bit more broadly, the subject of these short amendments to the law. But I believe that I am coming across your full understanding and that we will work together to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1783	Thank you very much, very much. Replica Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1784	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Vrbat, you mentioned that local self-government units have decided to participate in the organisation of emergency medical services, and local self-government units are mandatory. They have to do it, and that's the problem. We can't let the units of local self-government now, but you've expanded the subject a little bit, so you also said that some of the county's worth, that's the word I've remembered, that's the word you said in the emergency medicine organization. You see, you can't allow if you're hired there in your part to insult them, but to work, to move vigorously this way to organize such a mirror, so health care in that environment, in every environment. So that's what it's all about. And whether an ambulance will be organised in Gospić before or anywhere I don't think there's a need to pollemize it, but an ambulance should be organised in every environment. If he's going to be in Gospić, let him be in Gospić. Thank God! May he be in the Bujams both in Istria and at all times, but with the maximum engagement of all those who can help you and me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1785	Thank you. Replication response. Here's Mrs. Representative Tanja Vrbat.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1786	My colleague Milinkovic, I may have left out saying entirely covering the costs of these medical extra teams. Who made this appointment might say better who you are from the medical profession and here are the representatives of the ministry. Certainly as regards healthcare in Gospić, I am as a Croatian representative, as a Croatian representative, certainly too happy that the citizens of Gospić have adequate and good medical care. However, I think we should think about all the ends equally.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1787	Thank you. Ms. Representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. Isolate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1788	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Minister. Well, here's what we all witness, actually, is that in the implementation of reforms, there are very often problems. The question now arises whether this is because it was not enough to prepare for the reforms, or whether the reform was good enough. We'll leave it actually to be seen in practice. We also know that the health system is a system that has major problems. Also, this system is demanding and that this system, a system concerning every citizen of our Croatia, is that we will certainly have a lot of changes and additions and that this is one today, one small but we have heard important changes and additions to such a law. Here we were actually talking about a concession institute that should be reformed. The found system, which was a system of leases or a system of private contract offices in primary health care, in fact, that concession system and the Law on concessions must have also brought division among our colleagues, surely, as if, as many colleagues have mentioned that it was that divide et imperam. This process that must have been demanding, complex and long-lasting also shows that already, on two occasions, the date until when it should have been made has been completed, in fact, those concessions. Here and now, and with this proposal, we have a prolonging of that date. The leaders of regional self-government were, of course, required, with the consent of the Governing Council of the Homes of Health to issue concessions for doctors in hire and of course private, for doctors who had a contract with the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. This proposal also provides an alternative for the resolution of the activities of those who have not, which have not been granted concessions, so that they can actually continue to carry out their activities. Health homes as one alternative were spoken of by predecessors, so I won't repeat myself. But the fact is that the homes of health are today when you look at the purpose of yourself. What are the health directors for when we don't actually have a doctor inside? Therefore, the same could be discussed as a special subject. Then in these changes and additions, we have a prolonging of the start of the work of the Emergency Medicine Department. It's a good prolonging precisely because we've had, and we've encountered a problem of actually separating what was an emergency medical aid activity from the activities of the sanity transport was under-prepared. I think we can agree on that, and sometimes there was an unnecessary separation of these activities. All of this led to a certain drop in quality, i.e. a drop in services, as well as possible incident situations. I'm going to look back here today on an example of the emergency medical aid or the network that was created. In the opening part, in the opening statement, our minister said that emergency medical care actually mirrored an organised health system, and we will surely all agree. So the objective of reforming emergency medical assistance in which teams could arrive at the site of intervention within 10 minutes of calls in urban areas, and within 20 minutes of calls in rural parts of Croatia, and that from tip-offs to arrival of patients in emergency reception should pass a so-called It's a gold watch. And with that gold watch, the chances of survival are, of course, increasing from 30 to 50%. But it's not possible to achieve it, and now I'm going to give you an example of why. Taking into account the above, and considering the island of Korčula, which together with Orebić numbers about 20,000 inhabitants, and during the summer it increases to 40,000 people in the tourist season in such cases, this is actually not possible to implement. In fact, when an emergency network was being worked, then in the town of Korčula and in Vela Luka municipality, a team of duty was scheduled. So the team's on duty means 21 to 7 in the morning. However, no alert teams are foreseen at that time. What does that mean in practice? In practice this means that in case of emergency transport to the General Hospital of Dubrovnik or the Clinical Hospital Centre of Split in the service, then in the service, a doctor, nurse and driver are coming by invitation which is defined as follows: if a doctor is found or if he is physically able. These are our family doctors. My colleague, I think she's already talking about family doctors, I'm sure because of her moral responsibility, because of her ethics, she'll certainly try to be available 24 hours 365 days a year, but we put ourselves in a situation, put ourselves in the skin of family doctors – is that possible? Besides, when there was an emergency medical emergency network, they were told to stick to measurable parameters, and now I'm going to tell you who they are. It is the number of inhabitants, population density, share of the total population of the Republic of Croatia, area of the county, quality of road infrastructure, road network density, distance from the hospital in kilometers etc., etc. However, it is unclear to evaluate such parameters and such a concept of the network is certain that it is potentially dangerous in the town of Korcula and the island of Korcula. Thus, this parameter distances from the nearest hospital that has been measured for miles is that it gives a distorted view because urgency is not measured for miles but for how long it will come. Why do I say that? When you look at the island of Korčula or perhaps some other island we have to look at the ferry, what are the ferry connections, what are the times, what are the weather conditions, then it is specifically down the state of Pelješka road that passes means inhabited places, it is 130 km away from the General Hospital of Dubrovnik. So look at the size of the ride. It takes up to three hours on average. I wanted to show by example that there are major problems in the emergency care network. We can therefore expect much more amendments and additions to the Health Protection Act, and today, of course, this is a small, small shift, that is, a small change in all this. The colleagues also said that the reforms, i.e. these, are also at the expense of the founders. I mean not at the expense of the founders, I can't say it's a pity, but most of all it's on material things, actually material potential must have, financial potential must have founders. And now we're wondering what way and again we're going to go to decentralisation when something has decentralised actually, and no fiscal decentralisation has been done to the end. Here are colleagues and colleagues, regardless of what a small shift is, of course, to support them, but since we are talking about a system where there are a lot of problems, which is important, which is very wide, and I think we will still very often face changes and additions to the Health Protection Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1789	Thank you very much, nice representatives of Shimac Bonačić. I'd like to inform you that it's time to report a ten-minute hearing right now. The right to speak further has the order of applications by the representatives of Mrs Ana Komparic Devčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1790	The Honorable President, the Honorable Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Obviously, this topic is extremely important to us, and the situation is obviously very difficult in primary health care. What is the primary health care, primary healthcare should bear the highest health care burden in the Republic of Croatia. It's that part of the health system where our fellow citizens when they're sick come in first contact. So it's extremely important how primary health care is arranged. It is indeed the most important segment of the health system of the Republic of Croatia. What has already been a lot of talk, which is why these implemented reforms, I really want to believe that they have been carried out or are a wish, and the intensity was to be implemented in the best way to improve the health system of the Republic of Croatia, but it is also obvious that there have been major problems in the implementation of reforms itself. That part, so there were a lot of speeches from my colleagues and colleagues about family medicine doctors, wanting to be on duty, they don't want to be on duty. What's the problem? I personally think, and I've talked a lot to my colleagues that it's just that it's just that it's been awkward all along, that family medicine hasn't prepared itself for what's going to lead to emergency medical reform, that people just haven't been educated. Because I believe that our colleagues have been educated, that this has been communicated in a completely different way, and I believe that the reform would be better spent. And there's something else I want to point out here, in this bill of law that's mentioned, and one of my colleagues here has already said that, and as far as concessions in that part, so we have concessions for family medicine doctors, but we don't have concessions for our colleagues who are specialists, and they don't belong to primary health care. So here I'm talking about colleagues who work in health homes, who actually belong to physicists, cardiologists, internalists, ophthalmologists, or that secondary health care system where in this bill, they are actually proposed to them or to return to the health home system, or to be given the opportunity to rent space on a market basis. Let me think loudly and say the following, it seems to me that perhaps some different kind of concession could be offered to these colleagues. Maybe at this point it's not possible, but I'm appealing to the Ministry to think about it. For what reason? That they're being stimulated to stay in the outpatient system. This is one way to reduce waiting lists, relieve our hospitals, because in primary health care or health care, we will have specialists who can conduct the examinations. I'm asking you to think about it because you know what problems we're in and what our hospital's problems are and what's the patient's attack on hospital specialists. It's extremely important in that part of our country where the first hospital like Tanja spoke 100, 150 kilometers from the place of residence. So in this way, perhaps in these environments and in these areas, our fellow citizens would be allowed specialists to reach out for their hands as they say. So, they would have had in their places, in their health care homes specialists. And I really want to conclude with this, obviously, that the debate has also shown that this is a big problem, that the problem of the health system of the Republic of Croatia is obviously large and I am appealing that we might consider opening this topic a little wider and a little deeper at another session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1791	Do we want a replica of Mrs. Biljana Borzana or not? Still, yes. Here's Mrs. Representative Borzan's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1792	Well, here's a colleague you talked about about reforms I would still not have remained some bitter taste or misunderstanding stressed about that here on the other side of the assembly we heard a comment on my debate, health care reforms were broken most over the back of primary health care, doctors and nurses in that system most felt the problems in this operation working much but apparently that reforms did not lead to positive results when we have the highest number of instructions written in comparison with the countries of European, the greatest overload of hospital protection, I do not say the longest but long wait lists obviously do not work properly and there will be many more needs to change this Health Protection Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1793	Thank you very much. You don't have to answer, but go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1794	I thank my colleague, Borzan, I really agree with what she said and with her debate and everything, but we are absolutely all aware that our primary health care is in big trouble and that it is obviously something that will have to be done and an attempt to reform primary health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1795	Thank you very much. We still have two registered representatives, Mr. Representative Damir Rilje, and finally Don Ivan Grubisic. Here you go, Mr. Rilje.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1796	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here I am not a doctor, I am not a doctor of medicine, but I know why citizens care about local self-government when it comes to health services or primary health care services and what we call secondary health care services of those other services that are not private to us. What we call health homes today is actually just the level of the county. To be honest with you is the greatest fortune and we all swear to it, but we haven't done much to make it so. I'm not saying that at the state level it wasn't working on the system absolutely, but in the finalisation process we simply have to come into a situation that when we come to what we call a health care facility or a health care unit or whatever it is called today, we don't come across a door where x-ray services are being performed or even emergency medical Saturdays, Sundays, holidays and unworkable days, then we don't have to be directed to go 20 kilometers further, for example to Kaštel Sucurac when it comes to the city of Trogir or perhaps to Split for some other health services. Of course, with the county, we've had good cooperation but with the county health home, it's not exactly, and frankly it's very specific about this area that I'm talking about right now, about a pool with 35,000 inhabitants, I believe and I hear that it is in other places. It's not nice when we get into a situation like this that we actually tell people, you know what's gone around here today. There was once a home of health and maternity care even, today you no longer have people born there, and they are born, only in Split, but it is not far away. You also don't even have a physicist you have over 6 to 7,000 patients a year. Of course, we were offered by the county health home by participating in what they were unable to cover or what was invaluable to them. We had several meetings at the county level that I already said she had along with the mayor of understanding, but the county health home is still doing the same. We don't have a chance today for dialysis to work limited, the physicist doctor is leaving and it's not known if anyone is going to come at all if any of the doctors are planning. We've only recently returned the X-rays thanks to the co-operation of regional and local self-government. I would not agree that these secondary services, such as physiology, are a non-essential story and that they have to be dealt with exclusively elsewhere, namely, I would not even involve myself in the way that two doctors did it, or that physicist specialist, but I would certainly include myself in the fact that all services must be available at concentrations such as these and not just at these concentrations, you know. It also raises the question that the county health home would not be decentralised, of course first... along with resources and opportunities so let everyone worry, I say for now and I support this Law and these changes and I believe that some others will happen. But believe me, it wasn't nice, it was about the child, it was about the old man, it was about anyone, God forbid any disease, see no sticker on the closed door when you need help, and that was happening with us. And that's what we talked about, that's what the county's known about, that's what the county home of health is about. As much as I have knowledge of other places as well. And now your internal medicine as the only specialist working in this area of physiology, is about to close, because we were sent from home to health that the home of health couldn't take over the contract and bring in some physicist specialist, which wasn't true. So, I would conclude with this, we have an understanding of the moment that right now in the health homes it gives the doctors a condition that they have to enter into the health home constitution or that they will be charged the premises at commercial market prices of leases. How much and how they will be able to work when we today have the conviction that such doctors are not, of course, not planned, and then we later learned that they are, so they have been transferred to other homes of health. So obviously it's about disorganization within the home of health and trying to actually make one thing that should be simple become complicated. I would appeal, of course, with the support of these changes certainly, certainly soon goes and think about the fact that health homes are being decentralized because in the end, some of them are then deciding where and where such services and services are actually being provided, and everything happens in local self-government units. Of course, with all due respect and proper relations with both the ministry and the county bodies. But in any case, the organization should be more focused on local self-government units and, of course, resources. And here's to the end, I'd end up with it, knowing it's not nice to use anyone's home health service because it means he's sick. I wish everyone health, but we necessarily use such services, we will necessarily come into the situation to be a disease, unfortunately, don't give God to anyone, but when we come and then as a society we must also ensure that it is appropriate to be human, human, in the end, that's why we're here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1797	Thank you to Agent Riljev for his good wishes to everyone, not only in this hall, but also in all our citizens' health. And Mr. Representative Stjepan Milinkovic reported on the correcting of the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1798	Thank you, Mr. President. And I join these wishes for good health to everyone, and I agree with you that health is the best wealth, but of course I don't agree with that part and I keep it incorrect where you said we didn't do much about health care. That's not true, colleague Rilje. There have been a lot of indicators in transplant medicine, therefore in national preventive programmes, a fund of expensive medicines, etc., and in addition to this, we testify that we are available and quality in the world around 30th place. That's one significant piece of information. But I am certainly sorry when you mentioned your examples of practice that you have had some unpleasant experiences and indeed in that part you should try not to repeat it. But I also believe that colleagues Devcic said very clearly affirmatively about primary health care, that there are many people and colleagues of ours who work loyally and committedly, and in that part a new minister should strive and everyone to continue to improve that part. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1799	Thank you very much. Mr. Rilje, you can't react now because it's a correction to an incorrect quote. I would otherwise beg as much as I can for the right of every representative to use the Rules of Procedure, to use more replicas than correction, but I say I repeat it is your right. The replica was reported by Mr. Representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1800	Thank you. I'd just turn myself in with a replica not as a representative of some space but rather as a profession, since I'm a doctor by profession. The primary health care system was decentralised so it was centralized. Will he be decentralised again? Meanwhile, health homes are largely privatized. The majority of health homes left with only the administration of health homes which remained more or less in the same size as it was. This primary health care system is quite asymmetric in its various parts. It's not equally available, but it's very difficult to make it equally available. I actually wanted to respond to the closed door statement. I mean, sometimes the door has to be closed. So not all services and all parts of the health system can always work 24 hours. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1801	Thank you very much. And Mr. Representative Mladen Marelić, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1802	Here's colleague Rilje has been involved in the debate and I support his position that we have come to an unorganized health care facility lately. Unfortunately, I come from a place and county where we have five homes of health. I think that's good. Unfortunately, today's health homes remain a porter, the director is a porter, a cleaning man's office, there's their function, unfortunately. But I'm worried about what we say we've done a lot. Unfortunately, from the place where I live on 19.12. means three days before the former government's shift, the minister signs a warrant for my place to be abolished by a doctor since '52. For years, where it worked actively, there's an ambulance. And there was a solution to end, with a home of health being sent once a week by a doctor, and we're the only place in Dalmatia where the birth rate is 10% on the rise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1803	Thank you. Answer to the replica Mr. Representative Damir Rilje. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1804	Here I would just like to rephrase the complement. Of course we've heard a lot of things have been done, here's a colleague who agreed. Why did I need to replicate it? Because we've heard that everything's been done, and we're actually still having the same and bigger problems and we're running out of health care at the primary level. We even have as many indications and knowledge as possible by talking to other counties that county homes of health are differently organized, differently organised, different functioning and we have a unique health system. And with that about me it's very nice to hear, but I'm talking from the angle of the one that comes into the waiting room, so from the corner of those people who actually don't have anyone else, then they're not going to send their inquiry to anyone from the doctor, but they're going to send someone to the local self-government unit and tell them that it's not doing that in that and that city, that and that, so the health care system. Not understanding, of course, and we should not expect citizens to understand the system within which this part of the story is quite centralised as well as much. But of course we can't leave the story to ourselves. At the end of the day, I don't know if I just said it, but in the primary protection system when it was actually done in a limited-function dialysis system, we had the opportunity to supplement and pay through the city budget the appropriate means to make that same dialysis work. Of course, we couldn’t do it the way they suggested it from the home of health, so that we wouldn’t now talk about the home of health. So I hope my colleague won't be mad that I answered with a replica of this, but I think the whole story is actually very problematic and I wanted to add this to his story. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1805	Thank you very much. Except we talked inside the club that we'd avoid replicas between ourselves. I repeat, every MP has the right to this institute. Thank you very much. And finally, Mr. Representative Don Ivan Grubisic came to the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1806	I welcome you all. I represent in the Parliament one part of the voters, about 66,000, and the Union for Civil Ethics Croatia predicts that both man and society should be seen as a whole, not to highlight one aspect, and we forget some other aspects. When it comes to this health care law, this is definitely about the category not only of ethics as a science of morality but also about morality, lifestyle and behavior. Man, this is primary protection concerns, especially when it comes to our physical condition. It's okay, it's good, it's commendable. However, man is not only 80 kg but he is a man of both mental and spiritual nature. You should look at the whole man. Therefore, all the laws that this congregation brings should also be considered through a level of morality, or spirituality, if they were to receive one whole. The truth is therefore in general, not only in segments, but when it comes to morality, he should devour all spheres of life. We have two books that would be good to read, one is "Ethics and Politics", and the other is "Ethics and Economy". That is what smart people write and give advice on how to introduce this dimension of ethics into all segments of life, that is, morals. The second thing I would like to stress is the criteria of evaluation, whether the individual's values, whether officials, or any laws. Three criteria should prevail. It's a criterion of competence, other social sensitivity, especially when we're in the state of society we're in today. And third, moral recognition or humanity. So in all the laws and debates, it's my wish and a proposal, to take care of the whole problem and not to go around things because the old man long ago said "mens sana and corpore sano", "healthy spirit in a healthy body". It's good to have a healthy body and end up, but medicine today indicates, at least as much as I'm informed, and I'm not an expert, it indicates medicine that the gene of our diseases rests in a sick "me", not just about air or food or water. When "I" is sick, then the man is sick and it's the alarm bell. And today these dimensions of disease are well studied, they take the primary place somewhere because all other consequences and mental illness and physical illness are the consequences of stress and sick "me", and the unimaginative "me" is the most sick "me". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1807	Thank you very much. There are no more reports for discussion. We'll vote when we get the terms, and I'll get the terms I believe in an hour, an hour and a half. We're going to vote on the points we had on the agenda today. First, the Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act, emergency procedure first and second reading of P.Z. Number 16. The debate has been concluded, amendments submitted by the Legislative Committee have been accepted and have become an integral part of the final draft law and I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Restraint? I find that most votes with 90 votes in favour and 32 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending and supplementing the Health Protection Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1810	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear gentlemen. We have before us a proposal for a law amending the Implementing Law to comply with the provisions on the timing of that law. In this previous Act amending the Implementing Law from the end of last year, we delayed the entry into force of the proposed part of the Implementing Law provisions until 1 July 2012. This proposed amendment would draw up the legislation or the institute of a delay in the application of the law correctly and fully apply to all provisions of the Implementing Law. It is two articles and a minor amendment to which the purpose of the timing is to be precise and fully determined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1811	Thank you very much. Do representatives and committee rapporteurs want to take the floor? Here you go. President of the Justice Committee, Prof. Dr. Joseph Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1812	Ladies and gentlemen, Your Honor. Very short. In the discussion held on the committee, some reasons and conditions for the adoption of this amendment were explained. She's necessary and she's an ambulance, and it's been especially stressed. However, I should also point out that the debate highlighted the particular need for the proposed amendments, or the proposed amendment, to be only a deadline that will enable us, i.e. the Government to complete or supplement the balance between the two requirements of the Implementing Law, which is efficiency and that is the justice of its enforcement. If we didn't have this delay, I'm afraid we'd be facing big and serious objections in the accelerated execution process. And secondly, this was pointed out by the fact that to a greater extent, the professional and other observations that were stated on the law both because they were of a practical nature and because this law really needs to have certain observations but especially about them. What's on the agenda today is actually one way to get the necessary time. I will not appear at other points of the agenda in which the Committee has also debated because they are of a technical nature. And in some ways these technical natures were brought in unanimously. Only in this law, this bill of law had a clear majority with three abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1813	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, Mrs Ingrid Anticevic Marinovic applied. Here you go, Madam Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1814	Thank you very much, Mr. President, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club supports the adoption of this law. Amendment to the Executive Act. So, what's this about? Here we have heard from previous speakers, which is what the SDP club fully agrees with. In fact, these are also indisputable facts that the latest changes have prolonged the performance and in general this institute of public perpetrators' actions. However, when this happened, and this was one of our pre-election promises, it was necessary at the same time to extend certain provisions of the Implementing Law. In short, therefore, a court order is still being carried out instead of a public-executive exercise. And as my colleague Kregar said, one key principle for which we all pursue the principle of efficiency, but on the other hand, the principle of legality must be fully respected. We here at the SDP club think this period will be enough time for the promoter and specifically for the ministry itself to find the best solution. Because the execution is something that pressures our citizens, especially those and situations that are not to blame for not being able to meet their obligations because they have lost their jobs or work and are not receiving any unfortunately compensation. We believe that, in this sense, too, this element of justice that Kregar spoke of will be satisfied, because of course we consider it basic that all debts should be paid. However, here is how the public-executive service did not have enough time nor was it, the service was sufficiently neither prepared nor prepared, and the profession made numerous remarks on the protection of the perpetrators, i.e. illegal treatment. Taking away some property is a very sensitive thing. Of course, when an executive document requires that it is done, because there is a court order. There is no one to discuss it, but in any case overstepping and illegality are very, very sensitive things. And here we support that it remains in force until only the ministry proposes the best solution by taking care of these fundamental principles – the principles of efficiency of conduct, but also the principle of legality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1815	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr Boro Grubisic, Mr. HDSSB, and then behind Mr. Grubisic on behalf of the HDZ club Mrs. Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1816	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I can hardly forgive you for this mistake, but I will forgive you. Therefore, the club of HSSSB of the Croatian Democratic Union of Slavonia and Baranja, gentlemen of MPs and colleagues, Madam Deputy Minister, would be told the technical proposal for a law that only verified the delay of 31 December and said in Article 1 is replaced by the words "30 June 2012. "years." It's about the fact that I'm a substrate of the problem and it's not solved and that it doesn't actually solve anything. The fact that someone in the paper called these perpetrators public sheriffs a performance, etc. again be judicial perpetrators who will act on the principle of efficiency, and we know what this efficiency is even so far and who will act on the principle of justice. And that doesn't solve the problem. The problem is in fact across the country, and it also affects indivisibility, i.e. it increases exactly the number of tasks and great money that are being summed up it is really huge money that citizens and businesses and craftsmen owe to their creditors and the problem is to find a solution to how to be effective and to solve both of these difficult problems and one of the inequitable generators in the Republic of Croatia. There are well-intentioned citizens and experts who make all sorts of suggestions. Minister Grcic himself said he would have to write off some debts. He once said it somewhere. But there are possibilities, but I'm saying it to the deputy minister because here in the coming months it's going to have to be brought, so here's 30. June should be a solution that can be done constructively in this sense. So my debate is well-intentioned and those people I've talked to have some suggestions that can be discussed that one category that's agreed on, and that's interest that goes to the main, that's agreed, interest is the agreed category. It can stand as in India or Bangladesh 0%. People lend 0% of the interest or anything else, and somewhere there's 15% as well as our own. It's something smaller now. So, that this agreed category or interest is forgiven, and that the principal is determined to pay either at once or in wars, in meals. Often and mostly even, in most cases, the interest, the legal interest, is greater than the principal, and is a heavy burden on the debtor. Now, when someone owes the state for tax, they contribute, etc., you can only imagine what the amount is in those interest rates. As an agreed category, she's with us, and you know how much legal tight interest there is. And yet those who regularly comply with their obligations and their taxes will say so how could you forgive them for this interest, and we paid it neatly? And it can be solved if there are agreements, goodwill and knowledge. So from what is charged, therefore, and recognised as a debt as a principal, a fund can be created that can, in particular, help lend and finance with a very small interest, say 1%. Those who regularly carry out their obligations to the state and society. The idea of thinking, but by June 30th, we'll have to bring new paper. Here we will again be exposed to re-debate and waste of time. So there's little time, there's an idea, there's an idea to work it out, so here's my contribution, a small contribution to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1817	Thank you very much. Ms. Representative Ana Lovrin on behalf of the HDZ Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1818	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Madam Deputy Minister. Well, here I am, on behalf of the HDZ Club, going to say that this is about seemingly very small change, but actually about an amendment that repairs one mistake or schlampera which was made at the speed of adoption and the proposal of the Law amending the executive law at a speed not until after the establishment of this Croatian Assembly, somewhere in the late hours where, since the latter wanted to delay the application of the Executive Act immediately. And that application of the law that was passed a year before that in this Croatian Parliament and by a two-thirds majority. For the Executive Law, it seems to me that 111 MPs, so to a large majority and then opposition, and the current ruling coalition. And for the Law on Public Executors, it seems to me even more. For a year, it has been a preparation for the implementation of this law and what is most important and what I have pointed to and in the debate in those late hours in December, I pointed out that on 25 May 2010, the EU adopted a common position on the closure of Chapter 23, which laid down 10 of the criteria. One of these criteria, I will try to sum up, is that the Republic of Croatia needs to improve the efficiency of the judiciary, and in particular reduce the backlogs and speed up procedures and decisions on the performance including the introduction of new methods of enforcement, enforcement of court decisions. On the basis of this, the European Commission was then checking whether the preparations were being made and whether there was a common position on the provisional closure of Chapter 23. So, I'm talking about this law being one of the laws to meet the criteria, that it was voted by the two-thirds majority in this Croatian Parliament, and then it was an urgent delay in its application. If someone had already thought there was a problem, as it says in the explanation that there is a legitimate concern that the entry into force of certain provisions might lead to problems in the application of the law, then there was time throughout the year to make some changes that would be made to the taste of this law and to propose a few amendments to that law which would then solve the problem. I was already talking about the legal certainty of a serious state. If the law passed by a two-thirds majority in the Parliament, if the state prepares for it, if some people have approached a public exam, passed that exam, swore an oath to the authorities of this Croatian state, eventually put something into their future space in which they will work and had the conviction of the positive legal regulations that they would start working on January 1st to be told no then a week before then, you will not do anything now, all that you have sworn to this Croatian state, all that you have passed exams is no longer worth it to you. Therefore, today's position would be more credible if, in its first proposals, it proposed amendments and additions if it considered that it could fix that law. Nothing, I agree that the Executive Law must satisfy the question of efficiency for the executive, or the believer, and the question of justice for the debtor, or for the perpetrator. But these changes in justice towards the debtor don't happen. So justice to the debtor, but also efficiency to the believer, has been established by Implementing Law. And nothing beyond that executive law has happened in a year's preparation for its implementation. So neither the ministry nor the executive power could do anything other than what was written in the law that was passed before this Croatian Assembly. And it should be recalled, if someone has forgotten, that in the Executive Law it is a very protective and existential minimum. That in the amendments to the Implementing Law we also banned contracts that were concluded, and often the debtors did not see where the banks specifically agreed that they could sit on the full amount of wages and on that existential minimum in both movables and money. We have also made it impossible to amend or find a legal way to enforce the law so that certain protected receipts such as maternity benefits, disability, alimony, etc. are not carried out. Thus, through the provisions of this Law, the debtor is in this sense protected. If the debtor is thought to be protected in a way that delays the effective implementation of the judicial decisions made on behalf of the Republic of Croatia, then we are nowhere near the efficiency of the judiciary. The judiciary can't be effective if the exercise isn't effective because people don't go to court to seek their rights to get paper and judgment, people go to court to get their rights, whether materially, immaterially, monetaryally or whatever. Only when they have it in their hand can I say that they have achieved the protection they sought before the court. And finally, what I have to say is that the HDZ Club is actually in one situation, so we voted strongly against the amendments and additions to the executive law that has been delayed for half a year, because I think that this is what we have signed in the negotiating positions and what we have presented that we are going to do, but on the other hand, because these amendments and the additions of the law are actually correcting a mistake in these amendments and additions to the law by voting against this today, because we would vote against the citizens because in this way, we would remain 6 months without any possibility of enforcement and it is also not true that it is in some way to protect justice against the perpetrator by leaving justice decisions in relation to the public enforcement because everything that can be done by the public perpetrator not only that he can do so but must do the judicial enforcement. This is not about the different powers in relation to the court and public enforcement officer, it is only about the fact that this authority is entrusted to the public service, as no other way could you verify the signature could be done by any state body than the public notary can do, but only that authority has been transferred to one special service, hence the private service to which it is transferred, to which public authorities are transferred, is the same as it is now only about the efficiency of the business because it was considered that the transfer to the public executive service would be more effective, but with the exact same powers that the judicial officers have today. And what should be pointed out because there was a lot of talk and talk about it, so the public contractor can't break into anyone's home, it's the constitutional right to home inviolability, so he can only be with the state bodies that can do it, and that's the police, that is, with a court order exclusively. Here, and finally, the HDZ Club will be restrained from the proposal of this Law because the ruling majority has enough votes to vote and correct their own mistake, and of course we remain against delaying the application of this Law, but this has been voted and I am asking here the Deputy Minister of Justice what he intends to do in these six months, because I hope he does not think that the situation will be corrected by the delay itself until July 2012. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1819	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, Mr. Representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1820	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister of Justice, Honorable colleagues and colleagues. On behalf of the HNS Club, I would like to highlight two important facts, namely the principles relating to the proposed law on amendments to the Implementing Law. First of all, we at the HNS are in favour of protecting the credentials and ensuring the collection of claims for properly executed and invoiced and services and goods. Secondly, this is the functioning of the rule of law. Secondly, the just and social state that I believe we all stand for here, brings laws and other acts that provide rights that allow the same position to all citizens in the Republic of Croatia. The fundamental amendment to the Implementing Law that is before us that is proposed provides the new Government with time to create conditions for the application and enforcement of the Implementing Law based on two principles which we absolutely advocate, which is the protection of the credentials, both just and social state. So, the HNS Club will support the draft law on amendments to the executive law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1821	Thank you. Correction of the incorrect quote Mr. Agent Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1822	Let's try to be honest, my colleague said this law ensures government time. The government would have been provided for more time if this mistake hadn't been made. So let's admit the mistake, the mistake was made. A mistake was made when public perpetrators were abolished, the court perpetrators didn't return, it was supposed to be done last time, and not today to talk about the principles of purpose, efficiency, time giving, it's just not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1823	Thank you very much. In an individual debate, Parliamentarian Ruza Tomasic reported. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1824	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The new enforcement system, in addition to the procedure, introduces a new way of doing so, which mainly refers to the introduction of a specific public enforcement institute that will be in charge of implementing the exercise. The fact is that the exercise has not been effective so far, however, the cause was not in the debtors but in the legal provisions. Bad legal provisions have now been changed in a way that almost repressively approaches debtors. The new law has abolished the so-called so-called law. Probative list, a document that I owe my debt to mark my assets. The law envisioned the document at the end of the procedure, which damaged the believers. It was logical to arrange the same at the beginning of the procedure. Instead, it is concluded that the biggest problem is to find a property debtor and this will now be done in an investigative repressive manner by public perpetrators. In doing so, the statistical work is transferred from the courts so that it can be concluded that the courts have become more efficient. It is questionable whether this will result in a reduction in the number of court employees or whether court proceedings will become faster. It is more likely that the situation will remain the same in the courts. But I'm going to give you some of the news that brings about a new way of doing things, which should certainly change, which is the equality of natural and legal persons. The new Implementing Law essentially equalises natural and legal persons with the emphasis that just such unnecessary equality leads to the applicability of legal persons. Since a legal person can casually avoid payment while a natural person is almost impossible to do so. The new Implementing Law provides that the exercise for the payment of money demand cannot be carried out on the things and rights of a natural person who does not carry out the registered activity or the free profession necessary to meet the basic life needs of the perpetrators and persons who are legally required to maintain. However, the law points out that housing property is not considered to be necessary to meet the basic life needs of the perpetrators and persons legally obliged to refrain, leading to the endangerment of the basic life needs of the individual. Then the right to secrecy for legal persons, the law prescribes a fair inequality between legal persons and natural persons with regard to the balance of accounts. In fact, it allows debtors to keep a bank secret about the balance of accounts to their creditors in order, which is not the case when it comes to natural persons. In addition to the witnesses, the new Executive Act allows for executive actions that are not present to be carried out by his legal representative, an authority or an adult member of his household, to be attended by two adult witnesses or a public notary. However, the law does not prescribe who the witnesses are or enables the perpetrator to alleged witnesses to be legitimate. Similarly, the new Executive Act allows public enforcement officers not to draw up a record for the operation and not to make an official note, which means that participants in the procedure are not allowed to follow the regular course of the procedure because it is not known and cannot make any kind of insight into an action for which there is no written trace in the procedure. Out of all of the above, the new Implementing Law adopted in order to speed up the payment process, however, becomes even more complicated for the trustee. Only some of the key problems that the new law is making are listed above, and I would suggest either that the emergency procedure should be withdrawn or that the law should come back on the agenda before it takes effect for these things to be fixed because, as you can see, there are a lot of problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1825	Thank you very much. After Mrs. Tomasic no longer applied for the word, so I am closing the debate and we will vote when business conditions are obtained, that means about 45 minutes to an hour. Final draft law amending the Executive Act, emergency procedure first and second reading, P.Z. 14 The debate is concluded, I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that most of the votes are 92 votes in favour and 31 against the adoption of the Law on Amendments to the Executive Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1828	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Gentlemen, we have before us a proposal for a law supplementing the Law on the salaries of judges and other judicial officials, perhaps related to what we said earlier. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on the salaries of judges and other judicial officials lays down the right to a salary allowance for a judicial officer deployed as vice-president of a court or deputy head of another judicial body or a judge who performs the duties of the department president or head of the department. The application of that provision increases the payment of the salaries of those officials in terms of between 2 and 15% depending on the number of judges or state lawyers in a particular judicial body. Since the adoption of this law, that provision has not been applied for the reason that no funds have been provided in the state budget, and the Government of the Republic of Croatia has delayed the application of this provision by its regulation at the end of each year. Since the 2012 budget also did not provide for the funds for the application of that provision, the Government delayed the application by the regulation and proposed to regulate the issue and delay the application of the Law on the Payments of Judges and Other Judicial Officers for 2012 as well as the lack of the intended funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1829	Thank you very much. Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? Thank you. I'm opening a debate. For the word, the only one reported on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the CNS, Mr. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1830	Dear Mr. President, honourable representatives of the promoters, colleagues and colleagues. At first, I would like to say that the HNS and Liberal Democrats club will accept and support the bill that we are talking about, but let us repeat what we have been saying for the past few years. If the fact that this provision has not been applicable in the law for years, then there is no need to intervene in it with neither regulations nor such amendments, it is necessary to delete that provision in the law. In any case, when a state is able to establish standards that both financially and organisationally will be able to comply with such a provision and it makes sense for it to be in the law. And this is how if year after year due to a lack of financial resources, that application is delayed, it slowly becomes unserious. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1831	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when business conditions are met, so today. Final draft law supplementing the Law on the salaries of judges and other judicial officials, emergency procedure, P.Z. Number 17. The debate is closed, and I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that most votes with 92 votes in favour and 32 abstentions have been passed by the Law supplementing the law on the salaries of judges and other judicial officials in the text as proposed by the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1834	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I have not reached this point, although I believe that you and we are all in violation of Article 109. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1835	109th or 209th?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1836	109. I'll quote it now. Therefore, the Government shall designate a member of the Government, State Secretary and Deputy Secretary of State from the Central Office in the State Office for his representative in the Assembly to discuss the draft laws and other acts. So, I don't want to be any malice or say that you wouldn't talk about it... No, no, the secretary of state, and these are the deputy ministers, that's a big difference. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So the moment we changed the structure of the state bodies we should have changed the Rules of Procedure. Why am I saying this, I'm saying for reasons that in the previous meeting if he wasn't a minister or a secretary of state, then others were not allowed to speak. If we stick to the Rules of Procedure, then the State Secretary is not the Deputy Minister because if the State Secretary is the Deputy Minister, then we should not have changed the decision to form the Croatian Government. So, therefore, by not wanting to say to anyone that he has no right to speak on behalf of the Government, perhaps we should consider for the next week when the parliamentary session continues to change this and to define precisely whether, since there are now ministerial assistants, who is the basis of Article 109 of the amended Rules of Procedure who can represent the Government on these bodies. You can't convince me that the secretary of state and the deputy minister are the same because the secretary of state no longer exists.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1837	Thank you very much. I can assure you with a very simple fact, which is that the deputy minister is changing the minister when he's prevented or absent, and he's here. So what you said now would be interpreted strictly restrictively, but you know well that's not the way it is, but that lawyers interpret it as meaningful, and that's what I just said. Here you are again for the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1838	I'm not a lawyer, you're a lawyer, but here it says something else. The government determines...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1839	Look, there's no polymizing, here's the secretary... warns, so you've got the answer, and there's no question of any damage to the Rules of Procedure on the same matter. ... [[You don't understand.]] If you are not satisfied, please do not be angry, if you are not satisfied, you must seek the opinion of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1840	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1841	Okay, thank you very much. Mr. Deputy...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1842	So how are we gonna do this if we don't respect our own Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1843	I answered nicely. ... I am obliged by article 209 to answer you and I have answered. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1844	It doesn't say who changes a member of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1845	You said yourself you weren't a lawyer, and I know exactly what I said, and you'll check it out in other acts. There are laws about it, so look at the Government Act and some other laws that regulate it. Please, Mr. Deputy Minister, Mr. Lalovec, you have your word.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1846	Good afternoon. Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. The proposed Law on compensation for the provision of services in mobile electronic communications networks is the subject of payment fees for short text messages and image, speech and sound transmission services via MMS and voice services. So this is the proposal for a law on compensation for the provision of services in mobile electronic communications networks, it is proposed because on 1 January 2012, the Law on compensation for the provision of services in mobile electronic communications networks has ceased to apply, leading to a reduction of resources in the national budget for 2012. The proposal for a law on compensation for the provision of services in mobile electronic communications networks is one of the important measures to increase the revenues of the state budget, i.e. to achieve a more significant fiscal impact that will ensure regular inflow of funds into the state budget, and should not have an impact on the standard of the population, given that it is not the category of consumption that serves the basic needs and does not endanger persons with significant lower incomes. The Law on compensation for the provision of services in mobile electronic communications networks which ceased to be valid on 1 January 2012 at the time of adoption was one of the anti-recession measures, which affected the increase in the revenues of the state budget. So a more significant fiscal impact has been achieved. So we're actually staying, so we're going with the final bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1847	Please state whether or not you accept the amendment of the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1848	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1849	Thank you. You've received the amendments to the bench two days ago. Do the representatives of the working bodies who discussed this matter, so the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget want to take a word? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourers Mr Dragutin Lesar applied. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1850	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. When this law was publicly announced, one of the government's members explained the continuation of this tax as a kind of criminal tax because mobile phone service providers were told not to invest enough or as much as was expected to further develop technology, telephony, and especially the fast internet. It is true that this law will not or should not affect the price of services, that this 6% tax should not be an excuse for any increase in prices so that practically it continues to apply in continuity. However, I use the debate to warn of two things that are directly related to this law as well as the state's relationship against such an important one in the financial sense of economic activity. The director of one of the companies that is subject to the tax of this law a few days ago announced firing if I'm not mistaken about 600 employees. This company happens to have a contract and provides mobile and fixed telephony services and Internet services to 99% of the state. I've never seen a single contest, and I've asked several times to show me when the competition was called and by which the competition was HT, T-Com, Deutsche Telecom I don't know what to call them job, but that almost all state institutions and all those financed from the state budget are using the services of this very operator. And now, if in Germany the first man in Deutsche Telecom had announced about 6,000 cancellations, which is the equivalent of the announcement in Croatia, I believe that he would be invited to the government on the same day and that someone would ask him well what you're doing. In Croatia, was that man invited to talk in the government? I don't know. Is that or those contracts that they provide services to both mobile and fixed telephones and the Internet still interested me. But that's not all. All providers of these services over 60% of employees, or those working with them, are not in a working relationship, but are using the Agency's employee rental services. What are the conditions, what are the wages and why are they done? As it is possible that such an investment activity resorts to the use of such services, it is a secret to avoid respect for collective agreements signed for that activity or in those companies because they relate only to employees but not to those who work for them and for them but are in working relationship with agencies. This social uncertainty, the working uncertainty of those people who are not few, and especially in the activities that we have said they are making solid profits, and insufficient investment should be the subject of special interest both of the State Inspectorate and of the Tax Administration and of such a way of relations, especially at times when we all call on that we must equally bear the burden of the T-Com or HT crisis to announce the release of so many people, and by hiding or hiding, pretending not to know that they have a kind monopoly when the state is not correct or it is correct from the state to shut up and not react in time. Since it is not working, therefore a tax which could or should be any excuse for increasing prices and achieves some 300 million kunas annually or this revenue for the state budget we will support the adoption of this law but we will also find ways and mechanisms to force the responsible and competent authorities of the state government to enter the sector and get a series of answers to questions that are all over the world, and in particular this is the status of people who work for them, and they are actually hired by different agencies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1851	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ club, Ms. Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1852	Your Honor, Mr. President, dear fellow MPs. So here's one of the first legal proposals that lies ahead of this meeting, which can be said to be from the economy is the introduction of a new tax. There are a lot of debates and a lot of words in this assembly from representatives of the new government including the Prime Minister are said about how recovery of the economy, economic growth, recovery of investment is the first objective. And it's quite understandable and it's quite clear and that's how it's supposed to be. And I think that's what we're all trying to do. However, one of the first economic measures proposed, which is supposed to be in line with that goal, is the introduction of a new tax. It is not the introduction of new taxes in line with economic growth, recovery and investment growth. On the contrary. The new tax, in particular the tax introduced in the form of income tax, will prevent investment in one of the few branches with investment capacity, which is in need of investment and whose investment has a strong impact on other sectors through the strengthening of communication capacity and ultimately and their cost-effectiveness. I therefore believe that the introduction of a new tax, the imposition of a new tax in a country where all the measures are needed to speed up economic growth is deeply economical. In particular, I have an economically harmful way of introducing this tax. It's introduced as income tax. The government official said the reason for the introduction of this tax was particularly fiscal. If it's so possible to accept that argument. But if the reason is fiscal, then we would expect all fiscal measures and measures concerning the revenues of the state budget to be proposed as one single package in the context of the proposal for a new budget. There's no new budget, of course, but there's a new tax. We cannot therefore neither assess how and how it fits into fiscal capacity and fiscal needs of the budget. However, what is important is that the effects of this tax are such as to prevent and increase investment costs and any other business activity because they are charged on income. This tax doesn't matter if the companies they've been told have any profits, do they pay their salaries from that income, do they pay other costs, do they invest? No, I don't. This tax says first you have to pay the tax. And if the fiscal reason is at stake, then it was certainly possible to solve fiscal reasons and to accept some other less harmful tax. That's what I wanted to tell you, my colleague. And in order for you to be able to assess that, then, there was a logical way to possibly consider whatever fiscal measures you are proposing within the new budget. In this way, isolated from the overall and overall picture, only what we can see about this tax, we can see its harmful economic effects on the branch that has the capacity and has the opportunity to do exactly what we all are interested in, which is an increase in investment. I couldn't possibly argue with the need for the tax burden to be distributed properly. And that's that those who have more pay more. But income tax won't do it. This goal is achieved by some other forms that are charged with other basics. Given the said HDZ and HDZ club, they will not accept the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1853	Thank you, too. Correction of an incorrect allegation, Mr. Representative of Shima Lucin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1854	Thank you very much. I would correct the incorrect assumption that this is a new tax. As far as I know, it's an old tax introduced by the HDZ government. I think Mrs. Dalic suggested it herself. It is therefore necessary to remove these ambiguities. So, a continuation of the tax that was valid until the end of last year.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1855	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS Club Mr. Representative Petar Baranovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1856	Your Honor, Mr. President, the honourable representatives of the proposer, the honourable ladies and gentlemen. Things are perfectly clear here. It is a real situation in which finance is located, it is a real need to secure income in the state budget and, of course, everyone who worked with the budget was either the finance minister or the local self-government leader knows that in situations that are financially demanding, not only take measures concerning cutting expenditure items of expenditure but also plans and provides a stable source of income in order to achieve a financial balance. What we had the opportunity to hear during the debate about the great concern for future investment of companies that will be touched by this law I must say that it has personally caused me to wonder. For what reason? I've never been the director of a big corporation or a company, I'm not even a financial expert, but in my life since I was 19, I've been engaged in entrepreneurship and I'm obliged to tell the truth about this speaker, which is that no one has ever made any investment that was exclusively intended to create assumptions for making further profits and ensuring further profits. Introduce a tax or do not introduce a tax to me it will not be a motive or a pro or motive against the investment of companies that make such profits that the leading among them in the Croatian area has just found themselves at the top of the scales for the profit achieved not only in Croatia but also in the wider region, profit achieved at a level of one billion and 480 million kuna creates assumptions that this government in income planning respects certain criteria. Well, I don't suppose someone in Croatia expects you to first tax burden on craftsmen who put out hundreds of crafts per day, to be burdened by small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and to spare companies that have 4.5 million inhabitants on the market, so the order of size of one Milan, earn 100 million euros a year, make so many profits that the second class of managers in these companies has standards and incomes that are the cosmic category and for us sitting here in this assembly and that are the eyes of the entire nation. With this approach and the fact that this is exactly the law of this nature and this goal that came among the first in the assembly in this assembly we bear witness to the fact that the new Croatian government has criteria in tax burden pressured by the need to ensure the stability of the income of state finances. On how much this will reflect on employment and what policy these companies are witnessing the fact that during the handover of Deutsche Telekom many years ago Croatian Telecommunications was 11 000 and 800 employees, and that today there are fewer than 6 000 employees in the company and that the trend of rationalising costs by sending Croatian citizens to the Employment Bureau continues. It is certainly one thing, nor will this bill demote capital to continue to invest in what it has been declared and which will ensure further profits for it, it is also certain that the introduction of this law will not result in the possibility of further profits and certainly the continuity of the business with the profits that all the companies in this branch have recorded for years. Not one year has passed without the loss and poor business of the company in this branch being recorded. Therefore, the Croatian People's Party Club welcomes the approach towards which any further burdens will be directed towards those who can handle this rather than those to whom this would mean the financial end and the end of business. For this reason, HNS and Liberal Democrats will support this law and vote for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1857	Thank you very much. In the name of the clubs, the debate is over. Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic applied in an individual debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1858	Here's the Honorable Mr. President, the Honorable Representatives of the Government, very briefly because everything has already been said. This tax, i.e. the proposal for a law on compensation for the provision of services in mobile electronic communications networks, which proposes a level of compensation of 6% of the basis for the income obtained from the services provided is shown primarily to the just at this time. As already said here when the entire industry, when the entire small crafts are convulsing in major financial problems, small crafts are being put out every day, workers are left without pay and these companies are making enormous amounts. We need to mention, when we talk about this bill, that they have received almost complete infrastructure and once again to conclude in this brief statement that this way, the Kukuriku coalition is shown by the authority that I want first of all to establish.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1859	Thank you very much. The Republic has a Mr. Representative Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1860	I'd just like to supplement my esteemed colleague. Not only are they privileged in business but it is amazing that all communications service providers have started recalibrating the state, they have started threatening to fire, not to invest more if they remain imposed and in all this Croatian radiotelevision is turning into their service and propagating cancellations as normal, in business welcome trend which was the case the other night in Dnevnik 3. So it's absolutely certain that this imposition is even welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1861	Thank you. The next word was reported by Mr. Representative Damir Rilje please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1862	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. Here's a very short view that I think that the vast majority of us in these communications that are used, and many of us who have been through the privatisation process of the very foundations, so the basics of the telecommunications systems can only determine what today is, and that is that there are really those who have conditionally spoken monopolous positions in providing these services, and on the other hand, the question is how the properties of once called HPT have been cleared up today we know what it is. And on the other hand, when we talk about mobile communications then came out of them and, of course, one of the mobile operators, today there are several but the issue of ownership, I think we can basically divide them into two groups of one held by the VIP, the other held by the HT or the Croatian Telecom, the T-mobile, and that's that. On the other hand, it must not happen that this Law produces an increase in mobile prices, or that it accidentally rationalises business in terms of possible layoff of workers. Already and now all the prices of these services have been pre-named and do not match the prices outside. The question is whether the rights of workers in the same operators' companies are the same with those in the home countries where parent companies come from, it is certainly about services that generate extra profits and that would not be questionable but I think it is primarily about the fact that one part of the funds should be invested in the basis and returned through the functioning of the systems themselves. We know today what we have at least those who use some of the mobile operators, 098, 099 all the way to Bon-bon. It's hard to talk about a competition here at all because it's almost gone in these services. Not wanting to enter the history of privatization of these services, I certainly appeal not to increase prices and not to touch workers. I think that this was the most honest thing to do to impose such an imposition, and I think that within the state, we have to strive to improve the quality of such services in order for competition to make sense at the end of the day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1863	Thank you, too. Ms. Martina Dalic reported on the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1864	With regard to the price of an appeal, it's not a measure. Prices in the market economy are reduced by increasing competition, especially in a market that may be dominated by several, and there is doubt that there is some extra profit. But prices cannot be reduced by introducing a new tax, especially not income tax. If you want to regulate something else as a matter of profit, then you should think about some other instruments. That's why I wanted to tell you that the appeal here won't be much use, you need to use economic policy instruments in the right way.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1865	Thank you very much. Mr. Agent Ivan Shuker answered the next word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1866	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's a concrete law and two election promises have already been broken, so we're going to charge the economy with none of that, but you're burdening it. We're not going to introduce new taxes, a new tax is being introduced. But I would probably argue differently about this law if we were to discuss it as part of a package of laws that would be with the adoption of the Croatian budget. And why am I saying that? For the simple reason that there are documents that a government brings. And if the other government doesn't agree with that, then he proposes a document that he thinks should be who he is. Thus, the three-year fiscal projections passed by the government are currently in place, and this is one of the key documents for budgeting. Especially in times like this, when you see everyone doing different assessments and assessments of economic growth and what will happen not only in Croatia but in the world economy and in our environment, and we must not be immune to it. So, if this government had proposed new fiscal projections, whether it would be growth, decline, that's their assessment. Why am I saying that? So for the simple reason why an explanation for the adoption of this law in 2009. It was because of the economic crisis, due to reduced revenues in the state budget and when positive macroeconomic indicators occur, the law will be abolished. So, the last two quarters of last year gave light indications of economic recovery and the government proposed that this law be abolished from 31.12. And he's been suspended. If that was the reason for this tax, if this government reintroduces it then it cannot possibly be an explanation that it is an aid to the economy and that it is a social measure, because this social measure will not be safe. Because you can be sure that through some new package that will be so tightly announced on all Croatian media, this will be charged. They've never lost any of their taxes by introducing telecommunications, so they won't lose now. But running away from the truth is something that can be devastating for us. And by reason of the adoption of this law, it is fleeing the truth, and the truth is that the problem of state finances in Croatia is not the revenues of the state budget but are the expenditures of the state budget. But the revenues of the state budget are being discussed, one bomb is being dropped today, a third bomb is being dropped tomorrow, and all these berries are basically the introduction of new yarns. No one's talking about structural reforms. And yesterday, everyone was full of the mouth of how reforms were carried out so that we could close and conclude our negotiations to join the EU. So that's the contradiction. And when we talk about introducing new taxes to patch up the state budget, then yesterday it sounded terrible to me when I heard that we would single out 5m euros to pay foreign consultants to check the situation in Croatia. And yesterday, all of you here were saying that we brought the state institutions in Croatia into a phase so that they could control themselves, decide for themselves and discuss for themselves. So you can't deny that the State Audit Office didn't come into one phase, then you're saying countering what you said in the Parliament over the previous years during the debate on the State Audit Report you've adopted that you haven't been able to carry out the audit. So, on the one hand, it is spent and asked God who will receive this money to make some kind of ordered reports, and on the other hand, a tax is introduced that will ultimately be paid by Croatian citizens. Because these 300 million kuna increases in the state budget will be paid by Croatian citizens. They will not be paid by either "T-Mobile", or "Vipnet", or "Tele2" will be paid by Croatian citizens. And that's a fact, that's the truth. You've introduced a new tax, you've burdened the economy, and that's the fact and the truth about this law that you can't escape from. And I hope, as the announcements of yesterday's journals were, here's the government doing the pre-election promises that today will be, here's the government breaking pre-election promises and that's why we won't vote for this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1867	Thank you. Correction of an incorrect quote, Mr. Representative Igor Radjanovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1868	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So the correction of the incorrect quote... said Mr. Shucker and who he often repeats, and I heard to my colleague Daliæ who says that the problem with budget implementation is not budget expenditure, i.e. that it's only budget expenditure and it's not income. Of course, the problem is one and the other and, of course, exactly the art of harmonising income and expenditure is what makes the state budget sustainable and realistic. What is particularly interesting is that this tax that is valid until 31.12 was then the ruling majority and today the opposition was good, Mr Shucker himself proposed it and despite this tax and income which was significant has managed to leave a deficit quite large, which this group of international experts will unfortunately have to finally establish. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1869	Thank you. Mr. Shuker, you have your word for breaking the Rules of Procedure. I'm just warning you if you won't follow the exact provisions that I won't give you my word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1870	Mr. Chairman, if you're going to stay in that direction, then you're going to have to stay here. Mr. Radenovic was correcting something I didn't say. I even told Mr. Rajenovic the reasons why this tax was introduced in 2009, so I didn't deny that it was introduced, but if you want... then we can replicate each other. But you can't correct my opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1871	Please, you didn't give the Rules of Procedure an injured Rules of Procedure. Now you've taken advantage of what was always done in the last term, and I must warn you that as chairman, I cannot allow that to happen again. And the second time you start talking about something that doesn't stand out of the breach of the Rules of Procedure, I won't let you finish your sentence. So you know, that's what we agreed. Thank you very much. Until we change the Rules of Procedure and finally resolve the institute, even this one but in some other form, but especially the correction of incorrect allegations, which is a non-democratic institute. Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Boro Grubisic came forward. Here you go. On behalf of the club for five minutes. Up to five minutes, final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1872	Thank you very much. Mr. President. We remember the president's good appeal to the president's government and the president's government to the banks of private banks in the Republic of Croatia to cut interest. Now it will be an appeal to the operators to make this 6% fee not to oversell on the burden of the telecommunications user. 300 million kuna based on this fee of 6% will be poured into the state budget. Since this budget is going to be deployed on the spending side, we don't know that, no one actually knows that yet. When we take that 6% of 300 million kuna, then the total income is 5 billion kuna, 16 times, 4800 but another 16 and a half times, right, Mr. Shuker, you count it as well as I do, so it's 5 billion kuna. So many Croatian citizens spend on SMS, MMS and interviews. And here is despite the fact that the extremely unfavourable contracts were privatized, unfavourable in the fact that the Croatian telecom was a monopolist for years and the infrastructure belonged to it by all the employees, workers for years. Croatia's mail, unfortunately, went into some price contracted by the Government or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and now these same employees, and 450 cancellations were announced, will be found on the street. And not only that, according to the union's estimates and statements, several hundred people in Croatian Telecom are working through a student service, while employees have over 11 thousand overtime hours and, behold, employees are fired. At the same time, I have information that some fired workers here in Zagreb have been brought to their seats by workers from Germany. So our employees were fired, and the workers from Germany were brought to their posts. We know that T-mobiles in Germany are in crisis, we know that there are losses, a convenient combination to transfer employees from Germany to work in Croatia. Labour fluctuation. If there are mechanisms to keep these 300 million kunas from being over-loaded to those who use telecommunications, they'll be fine. If there are no mechanisms or legal options, as the former minister says, then we will pay it, or the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will pay these 6%. Again, the new force on the villa, only indirectly spoken here, is 6% on the operator's profits, and in fact there will be a new 6% tax on the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And very soon it will be shown whether it is so or not. And these threats with the inability to invest, it's ridiculous, it's funny that someone is threatening with the inability to invest, and at the same time they're not going to cut themselves off from 200 thousand kuna and at least to 150, as they have the manager's salary or the manager's salary in these operators. Of course the state can't determine that, it's a private firm, so it determines for itself, but we know that the salary is about 200 thousand kuna. The monthly salary of two hundred thousand kuna, and here we're fighting over some other things that amount to eight or nine thousand. So it really is the HDSSB club in doubt to vote for or against because if we vote yes, and the burden of citizens is not good. Thank you very much. No more, we've got a lot more arguments, but time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1873	You will resolve the doubt, and Mrs. Martina Dalic has appeared to correct the incorrect allegations. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1874	I'm, I'm a little out of line on these procedural issues, but I wanted to say that it's incorrect and wrong to say that it's funny, as my colleague Grubisic said, that they're funny and that this prevents investment. They're not funny at all because the companies we're talking about act as parts of international conglomerates where investment decisions look at how much the cost is in which country. So if in our country there's this tax that, for example, does not exist in the Czech Republic then it is quite clear that when decisions on investment are made at the level of these corporations that Croatia will remain short sleeves for that capital and will not come here and will not be invested here.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1875	Thank you. I would remind the MPs that when they correct the incorrect allegations, while the institute still exists, that it is good to specify, it is almost to quote the one who was referring to the correction. But this was fine, I'm just saying otherwise in the context of all this. This was fine. Finally, Mr. Representative Ivo Jelusic also reported on behalf of the SDP club, for the last 5 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1876	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. There were words here that the new law, of course he's in shape new but it's really not a new law. A law like this or the same has been in force for 2.5 years during the HDZ government, she suggested, and I see that they are now against such a law. That only speaks of their credibility. When they suggest something, it's good, and when someone else suggests something like that or something, it's not good. ... Please don't disturb me from the bench. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So HDZ would forget a lot of things he did, which he did badly, and they might want to forget, but the citizens certainly won't forget what they were doing. The great dust rose around this law or rather I'd say it wasn't big dust but big dust, they lifted big rich dust. Three, four, five firms that deal with telecommunications services have raised a lot of dust because there's going to be what they say without investment, they're going to fire people, and they're actually going to run out of parts, and when this is taken away, they're going to get enough. And that's why they've lifted the dust, and they're big and rich, they can damn well raise good dust. I'm surprised some of them are here in the assembly this time on their side, protecting the big and rich. We won't. Two sectors live well in this country, citizens are in a difficult situation, the economy is also, but the financial sector, the banking sector and mobile operators, so those telecommunications services that provide very good lives. And now that you're touching theirs, I'm not going to say rights, but in their interests, then big dust rises. So, they're not going to lose because of this, but they're just going to get a little less. It's not an investment problem here, so far the same telecommunications operators haven't invested enough, I won't say they haven't invested enough, they haven't invested enough, they've drawn that profit. We have one of the slowest Internets in the environment with countries when we compare what are in our environment. We still have a good part of the state that's uncovered by the network. I was recently in the vicinity of Zadar 5 km from the city center of Zadar there is no signal. I'm calling, I'm rebelling, so make it, reset it, do this, do that. I could reset all day to really establish that they didn't have a signal there. They've fired workers so far, and once again HT has announced firing 400, 500 workers before this, before the announcement of this tax, 450 workers will deliver this company and this state to the market, HT, before we announce this. Now they're banging on the head for announcing it, if they knew about this law, they wouldn't have announced it, but now they've justified it with this law, but unfortunately they've announced it before. So, they fired the workers, they didn't invest, and they pulled the profits. And now that we want to take part of it and get through the imposition of their income, they rebel and that's what business administrations do, our people in these administrations, these formal companies of ours, and they actually work in the interests of foreign owners and protecting their interests. No other service directorial service, if I may say so, costs no more than TK services or water, or electricity that are much more necessary do not cost as much as. Look at your bills at home. Take a look at the accounts of the average Croatian family. The most paid for TK services is more than electricity and water, and what do we need? And what's going on? You're saying that the costs of TK operators are higher than the costs of plumbing, HEP, etc. No, but they're pulling enormously high profits, and now suddenly some of them want to stand in their defense and defend their big profits. And whose prunes? At the expense of the citizens and at the expense of the economy. Well, it won't work! Let them behave in accordance with the Constitution. Let each contribute to the tax as much as proportionate to their strength, and they have enough strength and wealth, so let some of their wealth, part of their gain, I would say part of my extra gain help this country, this people in this difficult situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1877	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations by Ms. Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1878	Well, the wrong assumption is that HDZ is only right when he proposes something. HDZ is a fact and the HDZ government has proposed introducing this tax at the time of 2009, at a time of extremely bad situation when markets broke. The HDZ has also suggested abolishing this tax, noting its negative effects. And that is why HDZ is very consistent in its discussions on this tax.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-01-20-0.u1879	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We will vote on this item of the agenda when business conditions are obtained. That'll be soon. And the final draft law on compensation for the provision of services in mobile electronic communications networks, emergency procedure, first and second reading of P.Z. Number 15. The debate is closed. The amendments submitted by the Legislative Committee were accepted by the Proposer, so they became an integral part of the Bill's proposal. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I find that most of the votes 92 for and 31 against, one abstentioned Law on compensation for providing services in mobile electronic telecommunications networks is in the text as proposed by the applicant.
