ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-27-0.u7187	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the honor of fellow Members and fellow parliamentary representatives. Before you is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Assembly because the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia's decision on 6 July 2011 abolished Article 1(3) of the Constitution. And four. The Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Assembly in which it was prescribed that a peaceful gathering be held, a public protest must not be held at least 100m from the facilities in which the Croatian Parliament, the President of the Republic of Croatia, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia are located, and the prohibition applied to groups of less than 20 persons. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The constitution of the Republic of Croatia, which "everyone is granted the right to a public gathering, a peaceful protest under the law, goes exactly this kind of ban on the importance of constitutional right to freedom of public assembly". In relation to accommodation, it should be noted that it ceased to apply on 15 July 2011, part of the law relating to the facilities in which the head office of the President of the Republic of Croatia and in that part everything else was postponed to the Government, the Constitutional Court and the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia until 15 July 2012. For the speciality of the uniqueness of St. In Zagreb, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia also assesses reasonable and justified the broad scope of the legislator's free judgment in order to regulate the assumptions under which public gatherings can be held and may be stricter compared to the general assumptions that apply to public gatherings in other places in the Republic of Croatia. According to the position of the Constitutional Court, these restrictions may apply in time, to the place and manner of holding public gatherings including the number of participants within the area concerned provided that the restrictions remain within the limits which are proportionate and necessary. In view of the position of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on public gathering of prohibitions or restrictions applies only to the facilities in which the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Constitutional Court or the headquarters of those bodies are located. The proposed amendments and additions propose the right to a peaceful gathering and a public protest that is limited to 10m from the facilities in which the seats of the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Constitutional Court are and by the number of participants per thousand 500 persons. For the registration of the gathering, there was a provision in force in the Law on Public Assembly, which is 5 days before it is necessary to report to the competent police administration extremely 48 hours before the maintenance, and thus these conditions are even with all other gatherings in the Republic of Croatia. As regards the prescribed time in which a peaceful gathering can be held, a public protest in St. Mark, it's time from 8:00 to 10:00. Furthermore, directions are prescribed, approaches that allow the protesters to access St. Mark and the obligation of the city of Zagreb to adequately mark or visiblely mark a place to hold a peaceful gathering, a public protest on the square. For the sake of implementation also in a whole series of provisions that have been before you I think we have tried to find and I believe that we have found a solution to achieve the following which was the fundamental intention of the promoter, and that is primarily to allow citizens to have the right to messages related to political, social, national beliefs, the objectives of which are certainly the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia. On the other hand, to ensure that institutions can work and that these restrictions are not jeopardised by the right to freedom of public gathering in proportion to the needs of also protection against terrorism, the protection of national security, the protection of the security and the rights of others and that we have fully taken all positions of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia. Here's so much for the introduction by the proposer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-27-0.u7188	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Here you go. President of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, Mr. Representative Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-27-0.u7189	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. On 17 April this year, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security discussed the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Assembly submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament. This bill is a alignment with the decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, as we have heard since 6 July 2011. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. And four. Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Assembly. The draft law aims to reconcile citizens' right to public gathering and peaceful protests and protection of personal, facilities and property in St. Mark. For these reasons, restrictions are proposed on the number of participants, the public gathering area and the time limit, given that the market is St. Mark with its shape and spatial position an inappropriate place to perform meetings and carry out activities for the protection of persons, objects and property. The debate that followed on the committee expressed concern that the law is technically inconclusive, that the space of 10m from the facilities in which the headquarters of state institutions is not sufficient from the security aspect. It is also noted that the possibility should be considered whether the number of participants in the assembly should be limited to a thousand 500 or leave the same to the police's free judgment. It has been pointed out that the right to free gathering and protests with the smooth functioning of state institutions should be better harmonised by the second reading. After the debate, the board decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to draw conclusions by a majority of votes, 5 votes for and 3 votes against. Firstly, the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Collection and Others is adopted, all objections to the proposals and opinions presented in the debate are addressed to the applicant in order to draw up a final proposal. Allow a few points from the debate that was on the board. The main problem is how to align these two principles, the right to protest and the obligation to operate institutions. We have 5 institutions in the square here, we have the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Constitutional Court, the Church of St. Mark and City Hall. With the proposed solution, these two principles are in line with only two institutions, the Croatian Parliament and the Government. Before the Constitutional Court, protesters cannot come to the proposed solutions, it is simply not technically possible. St. John's Church. Mark as an institution of particular cultural not only religious but cultural and historical significance, this solution does not protect or seek balance. Same as the City Hall case. Allow a few more comments that have been made, and this is precisely about this spatial solution of the square and the parameters that are proposed. It has been warned that in the event of an emergency emergency and emergency vehicles and emergency assistance and fire departments, they will simply be unable to access it. A particular problem is that under the conditions set, police forces are unlikely to be able to secure public order in the event of riots. On the other hand, the amendments to this law raise a number of additional issues that may be caused by new tensions. The question at which point here is foreseen here the Home Secretary can ban protests. Is that at the moment when more than a thousand 500 people go to the square, or will it be the moment when a thousand 500 people are counted and then what happens is banned from the entire set or other approach to the square. Furthermore, will the police apply coercion in protesting or removing protesters after the set time limits? In short, it is thought that these and such problems will make it difficult for the law to implement independently on the political dimension of this whole law. Basically, what I think is important about this is that no technical solutions and bans solve political problems, that it's actually a way to sort it out on the one hand, but it simply norms that our whole political practice is solved by precedents and violations of the law, and then things come to the agenda instead of dealing with key issues. And when it is done here when the state institutions are already put in place here, then how can the Croatian Parliament work better to make such solutions that the needs for protests are an exception, not a rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-27-0.u7190	Thank you very much. I let you, Mr. President, speak at least in one part of the other half of the Rules of Procedure, which is what I wanted us all to know in the new term. Therefore, when the representative of the working body is manifested, then the position of the working body should be expressed, not personal. It may be, as can be said in the report, proposals of the minority, etc., but it is an explicit discussion. No, everything's fine. I just wanted to say it. That's what article 145 says. The Rules of Procedure, and it's in your article 51. Rules of Procedure. No, no, all right, I'm just saying that's the way it is. This is the new council... Yeah, yeah, I'm telling you the Rules of Procedure again so we can all stick to it together. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] This isn't just for your sake, for all of us. Thank you very much. Do any of the other representatives of the working bodies take a word for it? Thank you. Here you are, Madam Representative Ruža Tomasic, on behalf of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You are authorized on behalf of the board, I hear something now. ... And yes, I'm sorry, then. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] In the future, just to get the board to write that, everything's fine. It's a new call, so I guess some of the problems are of a technical nature. Excuse me, ma'am, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-27-0.u7191	Your Honor, Mr. President, but since you know that Mr. Furio Radin has been reading for a little while longer then don't warn me, it's not my fault. The Committee on Human Rights and Rights of National Minorities of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Assembly, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the President of the Croatian Parliament on 15 March 2012. The Committee considered this law as an interested working body. The members of the board supported the adoption of the law, stressing that the proposed amendments and additions are re-establishing conditions for achieving the Constitution of guaranteed citizens' right to public gathering and peaceful protest in St. Mark's Square in Zagreb where the central institutions of the legislative and executive authorities of the Republic of Croatia are certainly the most desirable addresses for which citizens wish to convey messages related to political, social and national beliefs and problems they face. As regards the restrictions provided for in the draft law regarding the minimum distance of the public gathering participants from the Parliament, the Government and the Constitutional Court of 10 metres, the number of participants, the maintenance time and direction of the St. Mark Square, the majority of the members of the Committee of Opinions are necessary for the reasons which the applicant presented in the light of the bill's proposal. However, the applicant has been asked to find a solution when it comes to persons with disabilities and older persons who are allowed the direction of a public gathering participant in St. Mark's Square to be difficult or almost inaccessible. In particular, the representative of civil society organisations, 60 of them, pointed out the extremely good communication that the associations had achieved with the promoter during the preparation of the law under consideration, but also pointed to several objections and suggestions from associations in connection with the proposed legal restrictions that organisers must adhere to when it comes to gathering in St. Mark's Square. Among other things, their opinion is that the minimum distance from the facilities of the Parliament, the Government and the Constitutional Court from the proposed 10 metres should be reduced to 4 metres, that the number of participants in the public gathering in the market should not be legally restricted, nor should the time of peaceful gathering and public protest be maintained, and they also consider that the proposed direction of the market participants also raises the rights of persons with disabilities and older persons. The applicant further explained the reasons for the proposed restrictions, noting that they were in line with the positions of the Constitutional Court. He stressed that the minimum distance proposed from the facility of state institutions on the market is necessary in order to ensure a minimum of movement needed for their regular functioning, but also for the movement of citizens who are not participants in the public gathering, and they need to move on the market, not only because of communication with state institutions located on the market but also privately with the rest of the tourists. As regards the permitted number of market participants, it was clarified that the calculation was carried out to determine the capacity of the public gatherings at which the proposing representative stressed that the proposed restriction was to be applied to the market itself but not to the surrounding area. When it comes to the allowed time of the gathering, the applicant sought, among other things, to bring it into line with the time of the meeting of state institutions in which the participants of the gathering wish to convey their messages. It was also taken into account that communal services also provided the time needed for their work on a space that should be representative of its appearance. In addition, it should be borne in mind that the possibility of public gathering must be ensured to anyone who adheres to the prescribed conditions, so that each gathering must have some time limit so that other rights can be exercised. The applicant also pointed out that there is a full understanding for people with disabilities and older people and that regardless of whether there is a legal provision or not they need to allow market access to their options. The second reading of the law will therefore consider whether there is a need for intervention in the proposed text of the law. After the debate was held, the Committee decided, by a majority of votes, 9 for and 2 abstentions, to propose to the Croatian Parliament to draw the following conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Assembly Act is hereby adopted. 2. Opinions, proposals and opinions tabled in the debate on the draft law shall be referred to the Proposer in order to prepare the final draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-27-0.u7192	Thank you. Is there anyone else on behalf of the working bodies? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We're going to a club debate. The first word has Mr Branko Vuksic on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-27-0.u7193	Dear President, colleagues and colleagues. Right at the beginning, the Pharaoh's provision that the people should not approach the authorities is finally abolished and that is a great plus, the greatest plus that this government has ever made. Freedom is not a means for a higher political goal, freedom itself is the highest political goal. Freedom is, of course, not just an idea, and fear is not a principle, but a way of life that we in Croatia do not always practice. Too much of this is practically forbidden, but abstract is allowed. We are one of the few, if not the only Central European country whose citizens did not have a single referendum in their country. Croatian citizens are so-called political elites have prevented direct democracy, but it is not only the former that is responsible for preventing direct democracy, but also this current power that has traded at the expense of direct democracy in the last change of the constitution. First, she argued that it was enough to collect 5% of the votes of a full - age person for the referendum, then give up or fear the possibility of mature decisions of her own people or make concessions for some other gain. And we've paid for that deal part of freedom, but any government would have to be aware that a pigeon becomes an eagle when he's abducted to get out of the trap. In other words, the day will come when citizens will realize that we will not be taken out of freedom to freedom in a feather bed. Although freedom cannot be simulated, the authorities have passed it in a way that has simulated it. One of the simulations of freedom was the ban on demonstration in Mark's square. The ban has suspended freedom, democracy has been suspended, constitutional right to freedom of public assembly suspended. If the former government has been suffocating this new power by banning gathering in Mark’s square, it allows for a little more good, nice, fresh air to be amended by the Law on Public Gathering. Protesters will be allowed to sit under the Prime Minister's windows from 8 a.m. to 10 p.m. because he thinks the Kukuriku government of protesters who have to get some sleep, take a shower, change and generally edit. What about the logic of the continuity of the protest? The government prescribes a captainate during which it is allowed to demonstrate on Mark's square, less than two full-time hours so that, by any chance, the protesters don't get tired or that they insinuate their throats when there's no Prime Minister or Parliament in Mark's square. I've also heard explanations that protesting in Mark's square is limited in time for security, especially in the protesters. But who claims that the day is safer for protests than the night? First, a story was released in the media that protesters would be able to throw away the prime minister, ministers and parliamentary deputies from 20 metres away. Yet reason, perhaps the one for self-preservation, won and the distance was reduced by half. But that is why the amendment to the law left a provision on Mark's market with a maximum of 1500 people because the legislators say it is no longer possible to accept this tight space. Croatia will be among the few if not the only state that rules the extent of the protesters to a certain space, but that is progress. So far no one in Mark's square should have demonstrated, not even allowed to group. Now he'll still be able to demonstrate the truth on the hood. A provision on a limited number of protesters allows manipulation. At Mark's square, the protesters will be allowed by the police. Will she count them or will the protesters count the protesters? Will the police trust the organisers of the demonstration or will the protesters trust the police? And maybe the police will share with the protesters the numbered tickets, which on black certainly will have the lowest price of a good concert or theatre hit performance. Why is this legal proposal subject to legal restrictions? Because the prime minister and his assistants, ministers want peace, creating a relaxed atmosphere so they can give us a better future. The engineer of previous HDZ bans and the asphyxiation of freedom and the creation of a future in which only container digging has been achieved today is very close to a grateful view of a world where, with complete silence, he will be able to give the greatest possible gift, a definitive departure from the public political scene. The new government has learned something from this hard-supervised HDZ practice. So, along with the restrictions said, the authorities took care of some of the discrimination. Namely, the direction or route of movement makes it impossible for people with disabilities in Mark’s square or after sharing tickets for demonstrations, the police will transport from their homes to Mark’s square and from Mark’s square to their homes. It's really going to be some friendly atmosphere that guarantees only theater. Perhaps it would be best if, before the protest, all the protesters were to write and take pictures just in case everything was under control like at the time of the South. We know the scenario step forward two steps back. Let's just take a step forward without those two steps back and put an end to unnecessary restrictions. In any case, the decision itself to allow even in a certain number of protesters to demonstrate on Mark's square is not a big step for humanity, but it is for our democracy that is still on glass feet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-27-0.u7194	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS Club, Madam Representative Sonja König, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-27-0.u7195	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The law on the right to gather, that's what was called the law passed 137 years ago. The law on the right to gather, so it was called the law so passed during the ban of Ivan Mažuranić in 1875. The law defines the possibility of public gathering as the right that the state allows, not as freedom that the state protects. Under the law, they were forbidden to meet the purpose of which would be contrary to public security or general good. It was also prohibited to organise meetings at the Parliament's meeting and imagine that within 37 km, 137 years ago. The organizers of the meeting were obliged to worry about keeping a clear order at the meeting, and no foreigners were able to convene and manage the gathering. The office authorised could send its commissioner or envoy to the meeting to which a suitable place had to be provided and inform him of all the speakers of the meeting. Then he was punished even if one of those laws did not comply with fines of up to 200 forints. People who did not comply with that law were very much at the time, and even those who did not comply with the law for up to six months were punished. Despite its limitations, however, the Law on the Right to Collect, the first law adopted in our area, has positively affected the awareness of modern, legal and political values and was the basis of modern Croatian legal and political culture. But the development of constitutionalism is not generally a process that takes place in short historical spaces. This is especially true for fundamental human rights and freedoms that have achieved their full affirmation in general only in the second half of the 20th century. At the same time, the idea of human rights and fundamental freedoms is marked by a certain valuable progressive development, but also by the fact that over time it is increasingly gaining importance that in the context of the right to public gathering it clearly shows our Croatian case. In most cases in democratic countries through history, every new constitution, every new law protects the right to think, freedom of speech and public gathering is growing. These rights can only be limited to protect the freedoms and rights of other people, legal order, public morality and health, never for political reasons. And that's exactly what happened in 2005 when a decision was made in this House, when a public gathering was banned in our immediate vicinity, so in the space in front of the Government, in the area in front of the Parliament, and in front of the President and the Constitutional Court. It is certain that the ear is not pleasant when you are criticized, and it is certainly difficult to meet all the demands of people, different groups, and interests that publicly gathered require the fulfillment of certain rights or claims, or to seek the abolition of certain rights and claims of other people. It is also certain that the address of the Protestants do not always know all the answers to all the questions, but those who make decisions, those who make policies, so those who are in institutions that have so far been forbidden to come and access at all, they must therefore hear their citizens, and now from a distance of 10 meters, they will be able and must because they have a job. That's what we do, colleagues and colleagues, and business. The right to a public gathering and a peaceful protest is directly linked to freedom of expression which includes, among other things, the right to express disagreement with the state or public policy at all. It is understood, therefore, that such messages are addressed to those responsible for the creation and implementation of policies, and they make or implement decisions in the Parliament and the Government. We know that the right to a public gathering is one of the fundamental human rights guaranteed by the Constitution. Freedom of assembly and the right to express one's views through it are among the highest values of democratic society. The essence of democracy is her ability to solve problems through an open debate. Indeed, democratic states are expected to participate actively in the formation of a political community and the supervision of state authorities from every human member of the community. It is precisely peaceful gatherings and public protests in which political or other beliefs or goals are expressed in ways of active, conscientious fulfillment of civic duty. These laws allow citizens to do so, while at the same time making it possible for institutions to work smoothly and safely. In Slovakia, for example. For security reasons, the protest is foreseen. banned 50 metres from government and parliament buildings, in Lithuania, for example. 75m, Portugal and the Czech Republic 100m, Greece 200m, Austria 300m, and Turkey 1km from their national parliament. Near our Parliament, that is, the building of our Parliament is also the building of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia, whose competences are many, including that of deciding on the consent of the law with the Constitution. In his previous practice, the Constitutional Court has repeatedly examined the consent of the Law on Public Assembly with the Constitution. Let us remind ourselves that the latest proposal to launch a procedure for assessing the consent of the Law on Public Assembly with the Constitution, namely its 1st article, was submitted by independent Croatian trade unions from Zagreb as early as 2006 and in 2007 by a group of citizens gathered in the Civil Initiative "Matija Gubec". However, the judges of the Constitutional Court decided that the articles of the law relating to gatherings in St. Mark’s Square must cease to apply on 15 July of this year only at their session in July 2011, so it took them 4 and 5 years to make one, for democracy in our opinion such an important decision. The Constitutional Court in its work is independent of the Government and the Croatian Parliament, we all know that. But we also know that the Constitutional Court must do its job responsibly and within a reasonable time. In our opinion 4 or 5 years is not a reasonable deadline, but this topic deserves a serious and wider discussion and solution. There are these days of objections to the planned time of public gathering because according to the bill that is in front of us near the facilities in which the Assembly, Government and Constitutional Court are located, a peaceful gathering and public protest can take place between 8 and 22 hours, which is logical, because the address of the protest is not actually buildings, stone and bricks, but people who work in them, and the estimated working time of these institutions is from 8 to 22 hours. If we look at the websites of all our police administrations, we can conclude that in Croatia only the Krapina-Zagorje County, Osijek-Baranja County, Primorje-goranska and the City of Zagreb are publicly gathered, because only these police administrations offer forms that are also publicly collected and registered. The most applications are submitted in the City of Zagreb because when we look at the venues, we see that the most popular space for protesting is the main square of Zagreb and of course the area in our immediate vicinity, St. Mark's Square. With this bill of law, St. Mark's Square is returning to the citizens again, this bill to the Kukuriku coalition fulfills its promises, and the citizens will be able to express their dissatisfactions precisely in our vicinity, at the entrance to the government, express them at the entrance to the Croatian Parliament, and therefore the HNS club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-27-0.u7196	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, Madam Representative Gordana Sobol. Here you go, MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-27-0.u7197	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here we are today with all the amendments and additions to the Law on Public Gathering, something we've actually been waiting for for years. In fact, the 2005 amendments and additions to the 2005 law were somehow provided by the HDZ government itself, so let's call it peace and peace in Mark's square and that's how it's basically lasted for seven years since 2005. It is therefore necessary to remind all of us, however, of some chronology of the events in the case of amendments and additions to this law, namely the ban on public gatherings and what is said by very small groups of people in Mark’s square. Namely, the controversial changes and additions from that year 2005 have actually been abolished by the Constitutional Court already for the second time. Namely, for the first time soon after the changes and additions were made in summer 2005. It should be recalled that just then the SDP club filed a constitutional suit because the law was then passed with an insufficient number of votes. We must say that the Constitutional Court then made a very spotful decision and annulled these amendments and amendments to the then passed law, but gave a delay in its application until March 2006. So at the end of 2005, the ruling HDZ went with the exact same amendments to the law in December, and then we again announced the constitutional suit from the SDP, this time because of our assessment that the law is unconstitutional because it restricts, deprives the right to gather freely and express the peaceful protests of our citizens in the square on which the most state institutions are standing, in this case the Government, the Chamber, or the Constitutional Court. It should then be recalled that it was then the HDZ government and praised that the amendments and additions of the laws at that time even got the support of 5 of the 6 union centres. Well, that's worth mentioning. So, peace and peace under our windows, but we in the SDP think that in this way Mark's square is enthroned like some fortress that should be conquered and whoever wins it will be the winner. So then we witnessed that all the protests that went later had one of the main goals of trying to break into Mark’s square. He became this square of Mark as some forbidden square, forbidden fruit that is even sweeter as it is forbidden. So, we remember, especially the ones who are here in Zagreb, so we got one target zone that was wanted to win, and almost to the chasers across all the possible streets leading towards Mark's square. However, I must say that already and then as SDP in 2005, we were responsible, it was always claimed that we were also responsible, we were responsible today as a government, and we were also aware then that Mark's square was in a certain sense specific not because here there are both the Government and the Parliament or someone else, but because of this very position, because of the possibility or limited possibilities of access, because of the monumental and cultural importance, because of the fact that there is a large number of citizens living in these surrounding streets of Zagreb. And already and then in 2005, we were aware that in this small space however big it seemed to someone, but this is basically a small space that needs to be reconciled by two opposing sides or two opposing demands. On the one hand, constitutional law guaranteed, the need for citizens to exercise their right to express themselves, so to express protests, their opinions, their views, political, social, national rights. So, the right to peaceful gatherings. And on the other hand, we cannot overlook this, that there is a need to ensure how smooth and secure the work of the highest state institutions, that is, certain security protection and everything that is meant to be. In addition, Markov Square is the goal that large tourist groups go to, therefore, to the City of Zagreb. There's something to be seen in this market and surrounding Mark's, there's something to be seen, and there's something in that part of it that should be seen when any changes are made and the law on public gathering is complemented, and it should be taken care of because I guess we at the SDP club too that if there's a protest that we're not going to tell the tourist groups now you can't go upstairs because Mark's square is shrinking and you don't have anywhere to go, so we're going to stop them in some way by police barricades. After all, the Constitutional Court, in its final decision which it has made, is precisely and therefore this specificity of Mark’s square, in the light of its decision and therefore the proposal coming from the Government, we support it because it is going in this direction. So, on the one hand, we allow, we open Mark's market again for gathering, expressing opinions, attitudes, protests, handing out flyers or carrying banners and so on, and on the other hand, the normal functioning of state institutions. We also support the fact that this law goes into two readings. That doesn't mean the law will stretch to how many months. We know ourselves that another reading can come relatively quickly to this Kingdom Hall. We think it's a good thing and it's another opportunity to do so in some way and to extend the possibility of further public debate when it comes to certain provisions of this law. So as a SDP club, we support the changes. Perhaps, in some ways, the controversy caused this issue to be limited to the number of participants in the protest. We think that's okay. Whether it's 1500 or 1550 or 1600 I think it's clear to all of us that no one will count the number of protesters and so let them go to Mark's square because we all know very well because we're involved in politics and we were participants in different gatherings, gatherings and so on that if someone knows how to make the best assessment of the number of participants at a rally, then they're still police forces. So those who sort of add up and secure. The fact that these numbers are sometimes different from some other estimates so not everyone likes it, now it's another pair of sleeves. But they know best to assess what it is, which is the point over which it cannot go because it would endanger the safety of the participants themselves. In addition, it should be said that in that corridor that the protesters are scheduled to come to Mark’s square, of course, that this part also enters in some way, so it is numerically entered into that addition to the number of protesters. What we also ask, as a club, the applicant's representative to take care of the observations which went towards which, therefore, approaches are provided and allow protesters to come to Mark's market to examine the possibility, i.e. this legitimate remark we consider to be related to the possibility of arrival in this way by persons with disabilities with a certain form of disability on Mark's market so that they too can protest. Is this going to be solved in a way that might open another time, but here we leave it to the government's representative. I say hello to what goes in two readings and what will be the opportunity to possibly explain some more things to another reading. So, as a SDP club, we support the amendments and additions to this law. We consider it a part of what we have spoken and sought in our pre-elections. Mark's square is opening, the most state institutions are here, but we definitely believe that the time has passed when under the windows of these institutions could not come or was forbidden. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-27-0.u7198	Thank you very much. Mrs. Sobol has one correction to the incorrect allegations by our representative, Mr. Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-27-0.u7199	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am free to correct the incorrect allegations of the distinguished MPs in a sequence that no one will ever read the protesters. Yes, that's why the law is passed. Because if we write in the law that there can be so many and so many protesters, then it is obviously expected that someone will control it. Therefore, only this shows one senselessness of this provision and I strongly suggest that the motionary amend that decision because it is simply unimplementable, and unimplementable decisions do not make sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-27-0.u7200	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-27-0.u7201	Mr. President, Deputy Minister. I also think that the intention of this law is absolutely fair, good or correct. Seven years ago, in two readings, we had this bill that we are now correcting, it was 12.7. and 8.12. and I was also saying that St. Marks the sacred place of Croatian statehood, that St. Marks the sacred place of Croatian parliamentarianism, Croatian democracy and that every ban on these sanctities simply chokes, not strengthens. Instead of encouraging them, she simply weakens them. And I mean that just now. And that's why I think this bill is simply correct. So regardless of the Constitutional Court's decision and the political mood clearly, I think the citizens should be returned absolutely to St. Mark, or should I be more specific to St. John's Square? Mark should be returned to Croatian citizens. Clearly, all gatherings and all these public protests need to be peaceful. Understandable as power has nothing to prevent gatherings in St. As a result, even the protesters in my court should not interfere with the normal functioning of the Parliament, the Government, the Constitutional Court or even the Zagreb Assembly, although the law does not refer to the Zagreb Assembly but it becomes a collateral sacrifice of the etho accommodation here in St. Mark. I'll quote on the page. 2. one detail in the explanation is literally "the facts such as the extremely small area of this square, that the square is the same" and the archaeological site and that access to this square is extremely narrowed down to narrow streets in a zone where most buildings are a monument of culture towards the position of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia point to a high degree of incompatibility of St. Mark on public gatherings which may indicate the proportionality of the measures prescribed by the legislator in the contested Article 11." Itd., etc. But then they say it needs to be changed normally. What I can't make a joke about, what the Constitutional Court can't, maybe archaeologists could, maybe the guards could. It wouldn't be their first time especially when it comes to some investments to stop some projects. Of course, I'm kidding. Because I don't think a forbidden city should be built out of this square. However, this law does not only stand for the Constitutional Court, the Government or the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia, but also for the institution of the President of the Republic of Croatia. So, on the other hand, to expand this topic a little bit, the government, the president of the Republic of Croatia, constitutional judges, for example. President of the Parliament, etc. are also in some residential facilities. These residence facilities are, for example, in Brions, Split, Hvar, Dubrovnik, etc. And now I'm asking a question and it's good to have a residence on the Brions, when it's going to be removed for the start of a shameful fence behind the residential and commercial part of that island. We just don't need that fence there. I've never been to that part of the forbidden city even though I've been invited many times, simply by principle. The residence, yes, the fence, armed soldiers on Briony's not. Clearly I do not think that anyone will now go to Brione this protest I do not think anyone will go and not even to Pantovčak protest in Hvar or in front of that villa down in Split, nor is the President's role such that it should be protested against him, although it may, why not, my God, but the position of the Government is different or the Parliament and it is actually speaking of this law. So we can freely call this law a law on protests before the Government or before the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. The essence of this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Assembly here on page 5. are the next at least 10m from the facility, so there is the ban in which they meet or are situated the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia is then further referred to in the space referred to in paragraph 1 there is mentioned a number of thousands of 500 people, so it is about time, so it is about streets etc. which can be reached on this square, etc. I agree with all those who have said that perhaps in this law there shouldn't be a figure of a thousand 500 protesters. It just has to stand or it doesn't have to stand, it can stand as long as it stops. Second, we're all discussing these 10m from the government, from the Parliament, from the Constitutional Court. I personally think it's okay. He asks himself the question: Is it possible in the event of a riot by police officers to maintain order in that 10m from the government, or the Parliament? Whether police officers, so we must also take care of their safety, can hold that order in those 10 meters from these institutions. Whether or not they can only guarantee the safety of officials, but whether or not officials who pass such a law can guarantee the safety of those who should ensure the safety of either officials, or passersby, or some third parties. It means absolutely that any peaceful protest, so if it takes a meter from the building itself, of this Parliament and clearly not by violent protests. I don't think I'm wrong if I say no to violent protests, that peaceful protests have always been and will be the kind of political statement, and this political statement should always be protected, always respected, tolerated, not to be encouraged. Peaceful, public gatherings in my court also do not endanger anyone, they are a message that things must change, which does not mean that the protesters are always right because it is always far easier to look, either on the street, or from the place of opposition it is much harder to achieve. Anyone can ask for a revitalization, for example. Some shipbuildings, not some of them, but our shipbuildings, but let's change now you trends overnight. Anyone may demand a reduction in the contribution to this or to that, but what that means finally for the state budget, etc. The law absolutely needs to be supported, and time will show for example. Is it appropriate these 10 meters, whether this should be extended to, say, 5 meters, or, in some ways, it might have to be reduced? Surely it would be best if there were no reason for the protests themselves, but such an ideal society is not even the Swiss one, let alone our Croatian one. There is certain in this law a few more moments, some mentioned by Professor Tudjman. He mentioned the Church of St. Mark here, I don't think the church will be the subject of a protest at all or some bishop or some priest. The congregation probably will, the law doesn't tang the congregation, but, for example, If the workers of Holding, Bandic says that in 2 or 3 months, there may be no pay unless something changes, and local self-government revenues fall, and they do not increase, then someone has to protest again. Where he'll protest, he'll protest in St. Mark's Square. The second question is how, say, Protestants can reach that square and so on. Which, for example, is the case. the arrival of foreign delegations. In 2005, it was one of the greatest arguments of the then ruling majority why such a law was passed. I don't see why it wouldn't be protested in front of them, though, but they too need to be guaranteed safety. When I talk about foreign delegations, maybe something else should be arranged for a start, e.g. That street AG Matosha under the government. When someone comes from some side of the country and sees what Mesnička looks like, come on, it's still good, but when they see the street AG Matosha, when they see all the windows they look like, those facades and then they actually see Croatia. I don't know who to send that message to, whether now the government that intends to edit facades, windows, Bandic or anyone else, can you arrange that? And let the government make a noise for the start of that lower south, east or not, I don't know what the facade is. It's a shame. That's what I wanted to say about my soul. Second, to quote one part of my '95 speech. A year. Now, this is what I was saying, all in all I think is that this law is an anacronism, it can end up being the paradigm of a government that pretends to not know what the problems in this society are. This law will become a place at the end of the day I said jokes come with power, and that shouldn't happen and so please think about them. But there's one more detail when it happened and who was for one of these anacronisms. They were for that anacronism and then union leaders. The law was supported by all trade unionists or all trade union leaders except Ozren Matijasic and Bruno Bulic, and that should be said, the truth works. Let it be known. And I believe that as the law was an acronism, so that attitude was simply anacron. This law goes in two readings, that's good. Why not, there's a maximum need to liberalise all these restrictions. We can really enable the people to return to the square or return that square to the people. And what the representative of the HNS club also mentioned, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Lithuania, Greece, Austria, Turkey, Italy have similar legal solutions. I asked Mrs. Sonja to give me this information, so I can actually quote them myself. So it is said that in the Czech Republic a gathering is forbidden close to 100 m Parliament building, so the limit is 100 m. in Slovakia is 50 m, in Lithuania is 75 m, in Greece is 200 m, in Austria is 300 m, in Turkey it is one extreme 1 km, in Italy it is similar, in America it is similar. So no one's asking for 50 meters or 75 meters, they're talking about 10. Let the police really consider what the gap should be between the Constitutional Court building, the Government, or the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. It means absolutely to protest in the square. Whether it will be 10 meters, whether it will be 1 m, just enough for the Prime Minister, the President of the Parliament to get through to their premises, ministers, etc., let's not matter but at this point we must also think about the safety of those who are in charge of expressing myself to our safety. I mean the police, I mean doctors who must also be present when they come to a place of 1500 or more thousands of people, I mean third parties. So the law absolutely needs to be supported, it's good to go into two readings and I think that big responsibility is not only on us when we adopt a law like this but also on rational, reasonable police proposals that must make it clear to us whether it is possible to ensure order, peace, and also to protect your safety. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-27-0.u7202	Thank you very much. We're going to the next debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, respected representative Miljan Brkic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-27-0.u7203	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of fellow Members and colleagues, the honourable representative of the motion and Mr. Deputy Minister. The proposer of this law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which in nature proposes changes in the part in which the possibility of protests in the area of St. Mark. The law is in the nature of the political character and is an initiative of the SDP because you have submitted a request for an assessment of the constitutionality of the ban on the collection of the basis of the law adopted by the HDZ, and by the basis of which this decision of the Constitutional Court was made, and the changes as we from the HDZ Club see this bill are technical. The HDZ's stance is that the law in this form will not be supported for several reasons. In the first place, we do not question the right to express opinions, the right to gather, the right to views, the right to peaceful protests, as much as we believe that this is a minimum of some democratic practice. We do not question the implementation of the Constitutional Court's decision, and moreover, the opinion and decisions of the Constitutional Court are something that says that life is regulated by legal logic. I'm sorry that my colleague before me kind of called the Constitutional Court where she talked about time-limits for making decisions. I don't think it's a good message to go out of this assembly and put pressure on our judicial institutions. I'm going to talk about this law in more technical terms and I'm going to talk about the potential dangers that this law would put before us, especially the police. We must primarily discuss whether it is an appropriate location for the accommodation of state institutions, but it is a political issue. God forbid that one day when the state was in much better trouble and financially better standing up to the institutions to single out a more appropriate place because I really think this place is inappropriate. Also, I'm not a poet like my colleague before me, I'm not going to speak poetic language, I think this is a serious subject and I think we have some things to apostrophe and we have to point out. Why is the law technically inconclusive? The gathering can be held in nature only in the southern space of the Church of St. Mark for the reasons of these ten-metre restrictions. Because this proposal says it is limited to a space at least 10 metres away from the government, the parliament and the Constitutional Court. When you technically calculate it in nature, it's your southern space under the Church of St. Mark. It also limits the number to 1,500 people. As most likely obtained, my former colleagues were most likely given this calculation of the approximation based on an estimate of the area of the square metre and on that square meter as many people as possible. If that's the case, I wonder who's gonna count those people, in what way? If we're going to have counters, if we're going to have some monks who are going to miss some, and that's where my colleagues and colleagues pointed out before me that we're going to give them tickets, so they're going to come in. What if there's more? Where with them? It will remain in a space that isn't in that space that's scheduled for a protest, so in the area south of the Church of St. Mark. Will such citizens, or protesters, be prevented from such spaces? How will these people be chosen? So these are all technical issues that we must think about and the legislator must take care of, and I am glad that this does not go into a hasty procedure as announced but that it will go in two readings. Also, by restricting such a defined space, not all will be able to come and will remain in the access streets. What, what kind of message are we sending them? Are they discriminated against those who will be able to reach a place where there is a limited protest, whether a certain protest or not? I hope to be honest that this is not the authority of the legislator of this law or of the motivation. Unfortunately for these reasons that I've given you now, we're coming up with a trickery and hypocrisy. Because we respect the public's right to protest in place and in ways that are completely inappropriate, and on the other hand we give them the right. I don't know if that's how the ruling coalition repays its voters for the vote and entrusted them with the mandate. I'm sorry it's fulfilling the mandate but that's right, we witness every day in practice that such mandates are ahead of us and that's how we fulfill that Plan 21. So come, or go to Mark's square for protest, and the square doesn't even see that's what this law offers. It means mockery with both law and citizens. What if someone reports a collection to that number, and more people come? At that time, police regulation is complicated because someone is going to be in the square, and it is natural that those too many that I have stated will stay in the approach to the government and parliament and the police will face the obligation that we impose on them, with forced arbitration against the citizens, which includes direct contact with the protesters. Finally, it excludes such a possibility when it comes to a neatly announced peaceful protest. So I would suggest to the Proposer to think about this number of 1,500 people because that way I repeat again certain people will be able to go to space, certain won't. The question is whether these people who won't be able to stay in the approach are being discriminated against. I welcome these approach directions, i.e. predicting the approach directions and their conditionality in a particular area of direction, but we are also witnessing previous gatherings and protests so far that the protesters are living mass, therefore spontaneous mass, these are beings, and they are more adventured by some other means than the one that is normised and where clearly the legislator has determined which way can be passed. I repeat again, and this will require police involvement. Once again, we will have blockades of certain areas so that delegations can come to the space of St. Mark, at the government, at the Parliament, at the Constitutional Court, and it's the police again who will have to edit. Approaching directions that are normised by this bill are also unsuitable for persons with physical impairment, for older people. The question is how will they overcome that rise, those stairs, and so on and so forth. What is also very important in this proposal is also limited by the expression of the protesters, which I think is declassified because then it is not the law that is usually passed for this democratic practice and matter. Because what if the protesters stay longer than 22 hours? What if they stay for several days because of the need to fulfill their imagined goal or their idea? Once again, we place all the burden on the police because the police are then normised by this law will have to issue a warning after 22 hours, after warning go other measures and ultimately do not let God come to any violent measures by the police and the violent discharge of that space for the protests. The law also overlooks and marks the space of which is regulated by the authority and obligations of the city of Zagreb. It's a space that represents the space and contents of the monumental heritage and not some meadow, so it's so sensitive to every massive gathering that needs to be monitored. And sometimes with the application of additional restrictive, protection and coercion measures. In such circumstances, protected cultural monuments are truly exposed to the possibility of damages, insults and similar deviations, and this is not appropriate since it is done with the blessing of incompetent law adopted by the applicant. So this is a sign of irresponsibility to the public or to the citizens, irresponsibility to the location of the monumental heritage, as well as to the institutions in the market where this gathering is scheduled. I'm afraid this law responds to that thesis of the law for the sake of the law, not the law for the rights of citizens. The proposal of the Law on Public Gathering is just a continuation of the wandering and non-disclosure of the current government, and now this incompetence is getting a whole new dimension. Cheap populistism will put Croatian citizens' lives at risk. I ask you nicely all colleagues and colleagues to think carefully because it is too late to react when side effects arise, it is too late to react when someone's life is put in danger, and now we need to think about it. The HDZ rejects this proposal because it is referring to the citizens and their safety. This is the biggest proposal, and I'd say the only burden puts on the police that should take care of everything, how many people come, when it comes, in which direction, until they can be held back. And the police are the only ones who are responsible by this law to go through everything in the best order and best peace as the proposal provides. This requires huge police involvement and would be excessive responsibility, but who would take responsibility for any incidents? What if it were a peaceful gathering if a peaceful protest from that peaceful to some other protest? How will the police react to this 10m where they must respect the phasing out of force? Will he be able to use all his legal rights? Does this law dictate the rights of the police to act? So there are a lot of issues open to which I hope the Proposer will give an answer in the next reading. The police wouldn't be able to do that in this space that's ten feet away. We are the ones who are responsible for this, we are the ones who will pass this law. And I hope that we will be responsible for this proposal and the adoption of the law and think about this detail. My colleagues and colleagues, before me, cited some examples from the world, from practice, from Europe, where you saw that certain areas where government institutions and institutions are located are of national importance, as I heard 50m minimum. That distance is again what I'm saying is inappropriate 10m, so I repeat once again to think about it. Also, this law is not normable how these protesters will get up there. We have in practice in some European countries and in neighbouring countries an example of protesters coming to these places not only on foot. I can come with tractors, I can come at the end and with my treasure, let the peasants come with the animals upstairs. You can think of what this space of St. John's Square will turn into. Mark. I suggest that the promoter think better about all this, about the security of the citizens that we are putting at risk with this proposal, and ask whether he wants to take responsibility just to get himself a few political points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-27-0.u7204	Thank you, Mr. Representative. The correction of the incorrect quote on this exhibition was reported by the respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-27-0.u7205	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's a colleague, Brkic, said HDZ is concerned about the security of the citizens, so the Protestants, that's what you said, literally, is what I'm saying. But last year, Mr. Brkic, in March as far as I know, there was no such concern at all because I was alone on Radic's street when it was what it was, and you know that you sent the police to a protester and it was cruel, so there were injuries and everything. Young people and minors who asked for medical help, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-27-0.u7206	Thank you very much. Let's get back to the reports. The following has been reported for the debate by the HDSSB club and respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-27-0.u7207	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. Another of the pre-election promises to the Kukurik coalition that he's actually hiding, hides what's much more important. And that's a 20% power-gathering and a 30% gas-gathering and all that's coming to us. This is how it is fulfilled, but in the dropper's pre-election promise that protest and peaceful gathering will be allowed in Mark's square. In 1918, protesters against the united Croatia with the Kingdom of Serbia experienced in Jelacic's square the bloodbath when it was killed by the order of a famous person, not to mention the history here, but you well know that because of the HNS, 12 Croatian unarmed natives died. In 1971, every evening, not from 8 to 22, but in the evening as Croatian springers and I personally went to the then Square of the Republic or Jelačić Square. Is it an important place to gather protesters or demonstrate or is something else important? So here we're focusing exclusively on Mark's square and everyone around it now here's breaking the spear. In Croatia there were two referendums, one referendum on Croatia's independence, the second referendum recently on EU accession. Both successful. But that referendum on the amendments to the Labour Act is not recognised. It's not recognised by the government even though it has 700 thousand signatures, 700 and maybe the Hrelja knows but there are over 700 thousand. What kind of authority will change its mind through demonstrations or the gathering of 1,500 people in Mark's square, and does not recognise 700 thousand signatures and names that have been established by the Commission as valid, that they are credible. It is not a matter of gathering either 1500 or 2500 or 3500 or 400 of those on the Split Riviera where 40,000 were expected because there have been closed many companies starting with Dalmatia wine, etc., yet 400 people only gathered. So it's neither the place of gathering nor the number of people gathering, but what they're saying and what the government is going to do about their messages, and obviously so far from this school so far, everyone's been acting on what they're saying, so the HDZs and this government, according to that plagiarized Sanader statement, "the dogs are barking, the caravans are passing." And he can gather with us for as long as you wish, if there is no hearing of what they say, what is not worthy of them shall be gathered together, nor shall they establish the ways to which they shall come, nor how many they shall be, nor shall he put forth the number of those who protest peacefully, and those who gather themselves together. Who will count, as someone said here or issue tickets, which is a very interesting solution for Croatia unlike some other countries in which public gathering is allowed even at airports. You can share flyers, you can gather, you can wear banners, you can do whatever you want. That therefore there are regulations of the Constitutional Court of the Federal Republic of Germany on this. So, in Germany, absolute freedom of public assembly was introduced. We are smarter than the Germans and of all and here we introduce the numbers 1500, we introduce the streets that can reach Mark's square, although I say the concept of the heart of Croatia, the concept of what this country and this people also solve with this Mark square as a state and fills us with Croatianism is Jelacic Square and the monument to Ban Jelačić in Zagreb, i.e. here 300m lower. I was, yes, exactly, on Radic's street last year when young people tried to get into Mark's square and when it was prevented by really drastic police measures. I was running, too, even though it was down Radic's street with them, and I saw what it looked like, I was. And I was in '71, and then I was at the scene, and I'll be back if I have to. But I'm afraid we'll also have a syndrome or a phenomenon of Split's waterfront some 20 years ago at Mark's square. In Croatia there will be no gathering of God knows how many protesters or those who protest publicly. Citizens, this people are in agony and hopelessness. Young people will no longer go as they did last year on the streets to Borongai, Ravnica, but have taken the task of finding a way to work abroad. That's what's holding them back, that's what they're looking at. And here we were the other day in Strasbourg and Brussels, believe me, there are a lot of young Croat employees in both parliaments who have found their way there and without the Government and without the mission of Croatia etc. And not to mention the economy and Germany and Austria, how many of our young people there, smart, educated, the Croatian state paid for that education, and now they're working and going. Thus, this hopelessness and this apathy results in exactly the kind of reaction of citizens as it was in Split 20 days ago when Ozren Matijasevic and trade unions staged a protest where, according to recognition, the organiser gathered an amazing few citizens. So why, we should ask ourselves, why so little is the response. We don't need to be afraid that someone's gonna break a window, so it's a folklore and a piece, come on, my God. I don't want to be savaged, I don't want anyone to understand me in the sense that I'm personally profitable in the sense that I support such behavior. But let's think about why the situation is exactly what it is like, hopelessness and long-term agony, and where citizens have neither the will nor the strength to demonstrate nor the public gathering or anything. They simply do not believe that even with their protest as the workers of the DEOKI were up to 6, 7 days on the platform, and that none of them were of the ruling or those who committed executive power visited them. Is that possible? Is this insolence that has been shown and during the past HDZ government and which is being expressed and now by reason of the citizens saying we can seem to protest, we can do whatever we want, we can gather but they do theirs, they do what they do, and we have no hope of gathering or demonstration or protesting or changing it. That citizens' thinking is what we need to be hurt and interested in. And the technical law brings order to fulfill the pre-election promise, so Mark's square will be available, and my God, my 1500 people, sometimes it's 50, sometimes 100, and that's only from 8 to 22. And what if someone strikes hunger here in front of the Parliament, what does he have to go home, send him to dinner and return to hunger strike again in the morning? How the goal he set for himself, and that's a hunger strike to prove if he goes home at 10:00. Whoever believes him is a credible Protestant in that square. So some things are really and technically not possible. And I think that the limitation and time, but also the space in which it is, I don't know how the number of protesters is imagined, because there are always differences between, we read both the papers and everything else, there are always differences between the assessment, the number of protesters from the organisers, and then from the public media, eventually and from the ruling to the elite because it's always going proportionally for half the less. So, if the union or I don't know who estimates there were a thousand protesters, the media says there were 500, and the government says there were only 250. That's how it works, right? And we witness it all the time. Here is no one protesting, neither the INA staff nor the citizens who are here through two or three agreements Croatian oil company INA, so something that is the spine of Croatia, the Croatian economy with tens of thousands of employees will definitely pass into the management of Hungary, let me say specifically. There's no protest, no one's got anything. Are we hostages to some kind of car accident in Hungary to definitely lose Croatia's oil industry? This is neither protest nor even the media writes about it specifically, let alone protest, let alone in Mark’s square. So by looking at this law that he said I would from that pre-election promise in these technical details given a little bit as I said at the beginning on the dropper it's a certain small step forward, progress in relation to what was therefore a complete ban on gathering on Mark's square. It is true that this is a small progress, but as much as this legislative proposal is suitable for protesters and how much again listening to Mr. Brkic who has experience in police activities is how effective he makes it possible for the police themselves, efficiency in situations where he cooks a little harder it is very questionable. Or let the law be adopted like this and let us see how it works, whether it needs to be fixed or otherwise determined. But here is the fact that in Croatia there is obviously no more hope, there is no faith that something can be changed by public gathering. Otherwise it would be Jelačić's square full, and no one would even remember going to those 1,000 people on Mark's square. Then there would be a hundred thousand people like that when they were banned for elections for the mayor of Zagreb, Radio 101 etc. Then there were tens of thousands of people, and then Mark's square wouldn't be questioned at all. Today, there is no more of this, and let us wonder why there is no interest in public gatherings and such mass protests. That's the real question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-27-0.u7208	Thank you, too. In accordance with Article 207(2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in accordance with Article 207 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and the European Union, of the other part, shall have the power to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 207 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in accordance with Article 207 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in accordance with Article 207 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, and in accordance with Article 207 of the Treaty on the The following has been registered for discussion by the respected representative Silvano Hrelja on behalf of the HSU club. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-27-0.u7209	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. You got me a little confused on the way in because I thought who knows what you're going to say epochally, and you said one technical notice. But it's all right. Dear colleagues and colleagues, therefore, before us is the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Assembly, and I am very pleased to discuss this today not from the position of the pre-election promise but from the position of achieving democratic standards in the Republic of Croatia. I am otherwise very proud of you that I was also co-organizing and participating in the biggest protest that took place in February 1995 in the City of Zagreb, which was led by our esteemed colleague Dragutin Lesar, then the president of the Association of Independent Trade Unions of Croatia and today I remember that Gornji Grad was blocked as a fortress, so all the approaches to Gornji Grad were blocked. I think there were more armored vehicles in town than there were on the battlefield. You know that we were still at war at the time, or that there was aggression on the Republic of Croatia. So, it was only the storm that took place in August of the month. So, I'm extremely proud of that time and it was a real protest. 7,000 workers from all of Croatia's counties fought for collective agreements, for the lowest wage in those difficult times. I was also standing as a co-organizer and as a participant at the Stone Gate and then came the coalition power in 2000 that opened Mark's square and wasn't some special geezer protesting in a fenced space with transzenes, something like what is now proposed. The police arranged, the organizers had a huge responsibility, too, to miss a certain number of people. It's not much of a lizard, therefore. It's obviously more dense when something's forbidden. But that's exactly why it's important what we do today. It is not at all the essence of this proposal in what these restrictions on the number, on the square, on what and how the police will manage. Here, another message is important – there are no untouchable places in Croatia. But there is also the obligation of all participants to take action, to respect the suggestions of the Constitutional Court, to respect the importance of the place and to hold the protest under certain controlled conditions. So the reasons there are, the objectives are justified, the democratic standards are wanted to be achieved and we've come to this structure. Could she in detail be a little gray, a little there. Could it be 1550 in the finals, could it be 9 meters instead of 10 they're technical details and no one sure I'm gonna tag will, but certainly they won't. And I don't think anyone's coming to Mark's square to break it down, even though I'm going to tell you later that there's been a ban at all. It does not come with the intention of breaking but to make excuses and to tell those who decide their opinion, their attitudes to be in front of their eyes and ears and that there is one possibility of direct communication. Look at me if I were in the union place, I'd find this place uninteresting right now. And believe me, there will be no news at all if a thousand 500 people gathered in Mark's square. The news will be tomorrow and will be respected if someone and when someone gathers at least 10,000 people in one place because then they crossed critical mass. Because 10,000 people in Croatia mean like a million people in Italy, about a row of size. Such a critical mass sends open political interest messages. So, tomorrow, I'd rather try 20, 30 people gather at the Jelačić place and say my views than I've been pushing around here and in some way meeting all the regulations that will naturally stop here and take responsibility, because there will be a huge responsibility here for both the police and the organizers. And we don't need to put too much pressure on the law on how the police are gonna handle it, how she's gonna do it. The police have knowledge and opportunities, and personnel, and techniques to do it neatly. Of course, it has a great responsibility, as organizers must have a high degree of responsibility for such a protest. And now that we're worried that someone's gonna sleep over. Well, of course, the organizer's gonna pay the fine. Someone's gonna sleep over, and they're gonna keep going in the morning, which is weird. I don't see any trouble, no one's broken anything. We may have to place a toilet here because it's human correct and civilized. So, I don't see the need to deal with some technical details, but here the important idea is the message we give. No more forbidden places, please, citizens of Croatia can send a direct message to all the factors and legislative and executive and judicial authorities, so everyone can be seen and heard if they want to. Otherwise, at the time of these modern media messages will arrive wherever such a gathering took place in Croatia. So the place isn't dominant now, it can only be a place of public protest can only be symbolic nature. Otherwise, there are definitely no obstacles to sending messages. I'd just for a moment have enough time back to the history of limitations. How in the first place did there be a ban on gathering in Mark's square in 2005? So I wish you, many of you weren't here at the Croatian Parliament but colleague Sobol is safe, in 2005, somewhere at the 6th month was the first attempt to ban the gathering. I was then in the ruling coalition and three votes by HSU were crucial. There was a whole government here, there was a debate in the evening and there was a vote that night on the law and the law passed with 76 votes. I don't want to brag, but my hand wasn't worse. This was sufficient reason for the Constitutional Court to abolish the law by the end of the year and the re-debate was, now watch out for this, the re-debate on the law was on December 7th 2005. Why is that significant, and why am I pointing that out? Because on December 8th, Ante Gotovina was located. On December 8th, the night for the first and last time and never before and never after broke one window on the government building, one stone ended because there was a small protest here. The 9th is supported by a political party that is no longer a parliamentary law passed by 83 votes. You got it all figured out. Of course we didn't fall for this game in HSU because with ours and without our votes, the law would be passed. So, I'm just reminding you, and all the rest of it is your own conclusion, but that's how it happened. This law is good we can responsibly say not by entering technical details, it sends a clear message, it is a compromise between democratic standards, the need for citizens to show all the factors of government what they think, about the state of what they think, about human rights what they think, about unemployment so on a complete political situation, but it is also a compromise with guidelines or suggestions of the Constitutional Court and the need for certain facilities and certain persons, certain foreign statesmen to protect and enjoy full protection in the Republic. So it is precisely in the light of this law that the proposer also believes that the restrictions are proportionate to these final objectives to achieve a higher democratic standard, to protect persons, space and therefore cultural goods and to guarantee a level of security for all participants. Therefore, a clean conscience and full heart club of HSU will support the adoption of this proposal of the Public Collection Act in the first reading and we will still consider if there is another technical addition to further improve the text of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-27-0.u7210	Thank you, too. It was an eruption of the good intentions of the Retirement Club, if that's the case, given the experience. We thus exhausted the list of registered clubs in the Croatian Assembly for discussion under this bill. We're moving on to a ten-minute debate. The first for discussion was reported by a respected representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-27-0.u7211	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Mr. Chairman, esteemed motionary. According to Voltaire's surrender, he once said, "Sir, I disagree with your opinion, but until my death, I will defend your right to express it." Whether Waltaire really said it or not will remain a mystery, but in those words the core and essence of democracy is contained, and it is our obligation to allow all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to express their opinion. And what better place to express their opinion than the square, than the square in which people have been gathering from the ages, where people have spoken and debated and debated forever. But it's even better when that square is St. John's Square. Marka, that square where the most institutions of this country are located. That square where the most institutions of this country are located, that square where it is easiest for citizens to come to those who wish to deliver a message. And as hard as that message may be sometimes, sometimes it's ugly to hear, we have an obligation to allow our citizens to pass that message on to us, whether they want to tell us that they agree with us or what's going to be more common, that they disagree with us. A respected colleague of Hrelja reminded us of 1995 and of an attempt to demonstrate in St. Mark's Square in the Upper City. I remember in 1999 when, as activists of the Forum of Young SDP, we tried not to protest but to collect signatures on Ban Jelačić Square. Of course we couldn't do that because it was unimaginable for the government back then to gather in Ban Jelačić Square, imagine in the center of the city of Zagreb, unheard of. However, some things have changed, so as Mr. Hrelja said in 2005 they changed once more. It is obvious that every 10 years in the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary to express its commitment to democracy and show that what is different from a dictatorship is prepared to enable its citizens to protest and to express their opinions wherever they want. That is why it is our duty, our obligation is to support this law but not because of what is in the Constitutional Court's decision, but because it is simply the right thing to do and because it is the right thing to do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-27-0.u7212	Thank you too, dear colleague. A respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, applied for the word. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-27-0.u7213	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleagues and colleagues. I'd like to begin my presentation on this bill with only one word, and that's hallelujah, hallelujah, finally. This small package of paper is a major democratic step for Croatia. For years, the voice of the people has been censored and denied the right to be heard right where it should be loudest, which is in Mark's square, in front of the government and in front of the Parliament. We are a country with many problems and many are challenges ahead of us, from joining the EU to solving the problem of the economic crisis. But making these problems don't exist won't solve them, nothing will. We are also a country of relatively young democracy, and we have already resorted to limiting the same, more precisely to restricting freedom of speech, i.e. the right to public gathering, expression of attitudes and peaceful protests. This Regulation shall enter The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia says and quotes: "Every person is granted the right to a public gathering and a peaceful protest in accordance with the law." But if the law that this article mentions is inadequately and needlessly restricts that freedom, it should be asked why someone wanted to do so to his own people. Why wouldn't he want to hear his people, why wouldn't he let his people publicly express their agreement or disagreement with the government's actions, publicly express their agreement or disagreement with the laws in the procedure in the Assembly and so on, and all of that by hiding behind God's security reasons. Understandably, certain security conditions should be respected because of the smooth functioning of all institutions located on Mark's square, the specificity of the space mentioned and the security of the protesters themselves, as the Minister of the Interior himself explained. It is therefore acceptable for certain restrictions to exist. This is, for example, the distance of 10m from Croatian Parliament, Government, Constitutional Court, as well as the limitation of the number of participants and the time foreseen for the gathering. However, my opinion is that these restrictions will not only contribute to the level of security of the protesters themselves but will also prevent some of the possible abuses of this right, namely the right to gather and protest in Mark’s square. I can conclude that this is a major democratic step for Croatia. Finally, there will be no more taboo for gatherings in Croatia, and Croatian citizens will freely express their views before the government and the parliament they chose. Because, ladies and gentlemen, it is our duty to listen to our citizens, and whether they agree with us or not is a different question, but their voice must be heard. For all these reasons, I will strongly support this government initiative and I call on all my colleagues and colleagues who care about democracy and freedom of opinion in Croatia to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-27-0.u7214	Thank you very much to my esteemed colleague, Domagoj Hajdukovic. The next debate of 10 minutes, a respected representative, Vesna Fabiančić-Krisjanic, signed up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-27-0.u7215	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here is after I have had the opportunity to hear as well as my fellow Members and colleagues in today's debates, especially in the discussion of some club representatives that this proposal is an amendment to and supplementing the Law on Public Assembly, I will try to quote, mock with law and citizens, pressure on the Constitutional Court, laxity and hypocrisy and repaying my voters, and I will turn my debate away from the Convention on Human Rights and will literally quote it. She says in her point one, everyone has the right to freedom of peaceful gathering and association with others. In point 2, this right will not be restricted except in a manner prescribed by law and necessary in a democratic society in the interest of national security or public security in order to prevent riots or crimes, to protect health or morals or to protect the freedom of others. This Article shall not prohibit the introduction of legal restrictions on those rights enjoyed by members of the Armed Forces, the Police or the State Administration. So this bill ensures functionality in the scope of human rights, so it does not restrict the right to express its opinion in a place where it has been limited for 7 years. As I referred to ahead and quoted in Article 11(2). The Convention shall provide for and specify under which conditions national authorities have the right to legitimately intervene in those rights. So there is also a limit to public gathering on these technical conditions that my previous colleagues have said about, which is at least 10m from the institutions in which they address their opinions, so the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Constitutional Court. These legitimate restrictions for the speciality and uniqueness of St. Marka in Zagreb legal assumptions for the maintenance of public gatherings are stricter compared to the general assumptions that apply to public gatherings in other places and these are restrictions within the limits such as the content of the Constitutional Court's decision, within the limits of proportionality and necessity. But in this way it is possible for citizens to pass messages related to political, social and national beliefs to addressees, i.e. to the Croatian Parliament or to the Government, unlike the last government, which, by a provision of 100 meters from the facilities and the Croatian Parliament and the Government, made it completely impossible. So again, we are fulfilling the conditions for the constitution of the guaranteed right of citizens to public gathering and peaceful protest and in the market of St. Marka in Zagreb where the central institutions of the legislative and executive authorities of the Republic of Croatia are located. And I will therefore support these amendments and the additions of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-27-0.u7216	Thank you, too, dear colleague. The esteemed representative, Joseph Kregar, answered. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-27-0.u7217	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of my fellow MPs and MPs. At one point today's debate, I thought we'd get lost in technical detail and not notice what the basic message of this law is. But as time goes by, it seems more like my fears were unwarranted. There are two points that I'd like to say just a few words about. The first concerns what a respected colleague started, which is that she is the right of everyone, and that this is a human right, the right to a peaceful protest. This Regulation shall enter The European Convention on Human Rights to which the Court's decision is called and according to which we have adapted the provision of our 42nd Constitution directly gives that right. It's worth it to everyone, anyone can, anyone, and where they want to gather and express their opinion. But there are natural constraints. Police are not to defend them, on the contrary, but to allow them to express their opinion and protest. But we need to know that there are opportunities and anti-protests, different opinions, the rights of others that should also be respected. For this reason, the restrictions listed here shall be subject to all the four criteria set out in paragraph 2 and to the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. This is that the restriction must be prescribed by law, and this law satisfies it. That it must be a legitimate goal, and everyone here stressed the legitimate goal is the functioning of the institution and the rights of others. That it must be necessary in a democratic society which one in the direction of the court is a developed criterion which means that we will not resort to restrictions when we like it but only when we have to. And fourthly, the principle of proportionality or proportionality which in this case is highly highlighted. So it's the right for everyone to protest, protest and protest at St. John's Square. Mark. Those restrictions which are imposed must be proportionate to protected legitimate interests. And if so, and I come to another point where I want to say something, what exactly is this technical data that some here have been very concerned about? How do we count all those who come? What will happen to those who can't come, to the disabled? I'm sorry, but these aren't things we can handle by law or by such provisions. So I'm gonna wonder if they even need them? It would be wonderful if they didn't. Unfortunately, because of the circumstances of the country in which we live, I still have to admit that such more precise provisions are needed. 10 or 12 meters, 7 or 4, forgive me if I'm going to be able to measure it? Or we'll have to invite it to be marked in some way. How do we deal with those who don't? The organizer cares about it, not us who predict conditions. If it's too many people, get together in a place that's more appropriate. If it is about what time the protest is to be held, and it is important whether it will be heard, the public will notice what the protesters are looking for and want, it is important. Whether it is proportionally proportional to that limit during the night with the reasons we have heard or opposed opinions it is secondary. What is the criterion in whether such a restriction is a proportionate sense of our right to a peaceful protest. That's why, and I'm going to conclude, I think these provisions have meaning because they restrict the discretionary right of the police to regulate in these cases. I don't think it's about the law passed for pre-election or other purposes. However, I think it's a legal text that should have been passed before by the Government, which they haven't. If it were a matter where at least, I am sorry that there are no colleagues, we have at least 17 years of serious objections from the international institutions of the Council of Europe, later and the European Commission, which we did not at the time regulate our legislation properly. Now it's time for this government to pass one such law. That's why the law in general and in detail I mean to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-27-0.u7218	Thank you, Your Honor. The next ten-minute debate was attended by a respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinovic. He's not in the hall, he's losing his right to speak on this subject. The following has been reported for the debate by a respected representative, Boris Blazekovic. He's not in the hall, he's losing his right to discuss this matter for 10 minutes. The following has been signed up for discussion by a respected representative of Shima Lucin. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-27-0.u7219	Thank you very much. So I will join those who have declared that this law should be supported. So this is the last eight years something less that we've talked about on this subject for the third time. So in the first two times, the large majority of votes were therefore passed a completely different law seven years ago. So, the law that speaks of bans. I don't want to talk about details, I don't want to talk about technical stuff. Why? Because I don't think that's the point of this law. And unlike some of my colleagues, and I mean colleagues of Brkic who spoke on behalf of the club, I have little more confidence in the Croatian police. Unless something has changed in eight years, but I know that both more complex and complex tasks and intervention police and uniform police can respond to these tasks. We all know that police work also carries a certain risk, but that's how it's not just us everywhere. Why do I think this law is so important? So you see the last 15 years not only us, but the whole world is facing one dilemma, and that's the dilemma of whether human rights and freedoms are so democracy that security. Often, human rights and freedoms are cut in a form of the need for greater security, as well as democracy. I was watching in that light when we passed this law. I then claimed that the 2005 law was actually a step back in terms of rights, freedom and then ultimately democracy. So, I think it's a good thing we're passing this law. So, about technical... whether there's going to be this many or so people, whether it's going to be this many or so meters I don't think it matters. What most colleagues missed during the debate on this law has actually missed the organizers' obligations to organise such a gathering. They also have an obligation when it comes to the number and when it comes to coming, etc. Let us not forget that if the organizer does not comply with the legal conditions and rules and what he has reported can be banned. The ban on the one where the law is broken is perfectly legitimate and can be implemented for safety reasons. I think it's the right of citizens to express their will. And why don't I charge myself so much with a number? Well, when you look at at least the last few years in Croatia, it wasn't that big a gathering. Anyone who wants to send their message who wants to protest something can carry with a thousand people the same thing they could with 10 grand or I don't know how many thousands. Therefore, I would tend not to ask in some detail in some technical variations, bearing in mind the ability of the Croatian police to make an excuse not to vote in favour of this law. I think voting for this law is actually a vote for greater human rights and freedom, and then democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-27-0.u7220	Thank you. Next up is Honorable Representative Igor Chešek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-27-0.u7221	Honored Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs. It is absolutely that I will support this law because by this law, in my opinion, we are approaching a step towards democracy or the real functioning of democracy. Unfortunately, the government of Prime Minister Sanader made a decision in 2005 to lift the gathering in Mark's square and that time could be called the free dusk of democracy. And that is why I absolutely support this law because the main lines of democracy are equality and freedom. Freedom of choice, freedom of choice and freedom of expression. If our citizens who have elected power cannot come to their market, and the definition of the square is that it is a space of common communication, and in Latin it could be said "res communes omnium" or belongs to all people. Then surely these people and citizens must come to the square to express their satisfaction or dissatisfaction. In reality, how much this will work, and how much technical details on the direction of the protesters' movements on the number of protesters and the duration of the protests can be subsequently decided and debated. Most importantly, citizens can come to Mark's square and show their dissatisfaction. Perhaps with the very functioning of the law, the citizens will come to Mark's square. We'd probably have a reason to come to Mark's square today. The government made a decision on the accumulated gas and electricity, probably the citizens would have a lot to say in Mark's square. That's why I absolutely support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-27-0.u7222	Thank you. And the last representative reported for an individual debate is distinguished colleague Josip Leko, vice president of the House. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-27-0.u7223	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. So it is almost a rule in the Croatian Parliament that when we have an individual debate to immediately state whether or not we are to support the laws we are talking about. From that point on, I say yes. Why? Because in democracy, if it is a right, all the elements of the democratic system, all the institutions of the democratic system, and one of the most important systems, or why democracy is a value in itself, are citizens' actions. So this law really provides and allows citizens to show their position in the place of headquarters to their representatives in government bodies in democratic authorities. I point out where they are based because the Constitutional Court also distinguishes the seat and place of the session. So both the Government and the Parliament can be elsewhere in the session but the citizens can come here and show their views to the Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Government, their views and their demands. From this aspect, the bill solves the problem. but since it is a matter of first reading, we should point out some shortcomings, some dilemmas, and also the limitations that are naturally proposed in the law but whether they are in conformity with the Constitution. Why? The law and the Constitution in Articles 16 and 42 in particular in Article 42 states that not only citizens but all who are currently in the Republic of Croatia can legally protest both against the Government and the Parliament and to the Constitutional Court and other institutions, regardless of whether they are local, regional or national. I can prove it to everyone. And the law acts on all citizens and all those who are now in Croatia, towards everyone. And what are we limiting? We limit the bill to exactly the number of people the law refers to. And that's what we do with the law. This is one of the problems, so in the discussion on committees, it was a suggestion not to limit the number of people who can come before the Croatian Parliament, to the Croatian Government or to another institution, rather than to be an assessment of the body which is also responsible for assessing the dangers that would be or disrupting the law of the envisaged possibility or danger for the institutions under which the law says they must be protected. In other words, let us leave through the law of the body, the institution to say yes, on Croatian occasions on Mark's square in the circumstances that we have is such a situation that no more than 500 people can come because we have meetings, international etc. Another problem is that human rights and fundamental freedoms established by the Constitution or international acts are not only valid by day, they are valid night after night. That's the next problem we have with the bill. So we say that citizens of Croatia and all who now live in Croatia have the right to human rights, the right to a peaceful protest and a peaceful gathering, but in the time between 8 and 22. What's after 22? Whether the Constitution is valid at night or not is valid at night, whether it is worth fundamental freedom or not. So what am I saying? The Constitution provides for a real restriction, and the Constitutional Court stated that the restriction must be given in the light of the circumstances of the space being spoken of, so on a concrete fact, but did not say which restriction might exist, did not say which restrictions we can give or said that the responsibility of the bodies in charge of the safety assessment was excluded from the process and responsibility in the process was excluded. That's why it would be good, so we have a really democratic procedure, the first reading in the Croatian Parliament where we can talk not only about the particular problem but about the width of the problem we have, really to see if it's possible to better define, to streamline the limitations that we are aware of because the principle of security, the principle of responsibility cannot be annulled just because someone wants its fundamental rights and freedoms to be realized. This one must respect both our rights and our freedoms and our responsibility and our security. To return again, therefore, it is not a questionable step not to make progress but to really restore democratic rights of protest, gathering or whatever it is called, not to read now, it is a huge step forward in the realisation of constitutional principles, but these constitutional principles must also reflect the real reality, real time and real institutions, or the real institutions of the democratic system that are responsible for me to say so at all times evaluate and evaluate. This effort must be made, that responsibility must be given and, in accordance with this second reading, this law should be proposed in my opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-27-0.u7224	Thank you. Dear colleague Dinko Buric applied for a replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-27-0.u7225	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Members and Vice-President of the Parliament, you said nicely and agreed that the adoption of such a law is a huge step forward in achieving the constitutional rights of Croatian citizens. However, as well as the moves made by the Croatian Government in recent days, and here is today's decision to collect electricity of 20% and gas of 22% is a huge step back to the quality of life level of Croatian citizens and I fear that if it continues to make such decisions that neither this limit we have set of 1500 or how many citizens will be not enough guarantee that this market of citizens will also not come in a significant number. I call and use the opportunity and this time remind the ruling structure of their campaign promises and that Plan 21 because every day we bear witness more and more to the fact that it is the government of false promises, failed expectations, great disappointments and enormous social insensitivity, and precisely social sensitivity, given the name of the Social Democratic Party, should be one of the basic characteristics. That is why we support and we have also said that in the debate on the adoption of such a law, but we warn that with such decisions as here is the news of the government's decision to collect electricity of 20% and 22% gas will not be a guarantee to stop citizens from expressing their dissatisfaction if such a policy continues.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-27-0.u7226	This replica will be answered by the esteemed Vice President of the House, Mr. Joseph Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-27-0.u7227	Thank you very much, Vice President. A respected colleague of the government has an obligation to consider Croatia for at least 4 years in advance, if not 10 years. And she won't make a cheap and trick decision no matter how she might currently like voters, her responsibility is to think at least 10 years ahead. To change the direction of movement and that Croatia does not spend someone else's battery but rather develops on the basis of its battery as much as it earns to spend as much and according to its development. It is simply the responsibility of the government not to raise but to bear responsibility and to see trends in the world in which it must fit. Since Croatia, by its will or by its mistakes, must count on the situation in Europe and the world to be the most expensive in other people's accumulation and its development, our development now depends not only on the price of money and capital but also on good programmes, it is better to bear and make unpopular moves that will bring positive effects in the future. I hope so, and I believe that the government is doing it in a good way and in a good direction to move. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-27-0.u7228	Thank you. That's how we exhausted the list of people reported for discussion. I call on Deputy Minister of the Interior of Honored Evelin Tonkovic for his closing statement.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-27-0.u7229	Honorable Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs. It was interesting to listen to this debate, there were lots of interesting proposals, arguments and we'll consider it all so that you'll be convinced that we'll really try to make one final proposal that will satisfy everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-27-0.u7230	Thank you. I will now announce the break by 12 o'clock and 15 minutes, so I invite you to meet me at that exact time in the assembly for the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-27-0.u7231	We move on to a statement on the amendment law proposal and the additions of the Law on Public Assembly, first reading, P.Z. No. 58. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the next conclusion. We have two points of that conclusion: 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Assembly Act is hereby adopted. 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law. Please state who's behind this conclusion? Against? Restraint? I find that most votes, 91 votes, and 24 against the proposed conclusion. Dear ladies and gentlemen, I warmly welcome you all. We continue to work on the 4th session of the Croatian Parliament with as announced - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Law on the effective use of energy in direct consumption, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No.70 Mr. Representative Lesar.
