ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12473	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs, respected MPs. This is one of the decisions of amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure, in fact the first decision in this term, and it is caused by the need to comply with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure with the amendments to the Government Act and amendments to the Law establishing ministries and other bodies. It should be said that we are followed by a more extensive amendment to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament before the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the European Union, i.e. when the Croatian Parliament adopts the Law on the Relations of the Croatian Parliament and Government when Croatia is a full member of the European Union. The introduction can also say that the decision to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament is of course not attractive to Croatian citizens and the Croatian public, neither they need to know nor know how the procedure in the Croatian Parliament affects the presentation, i.e. the representation of their interests or the presentation of policies for which they are interested. However, the Rules of Procedure have a significant impact on the ability to express and present policies and protect the interests of Croatian citizens in the Croatian Parliament, and it is therefore envisaged and is now going to be done to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure through two readings. This is a second reading, so in this sense I must repeat some things that I have already said here when I first read the Decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. So I repeat, the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are directly based on the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and there are no other regulations between the Rules of Procedure and the Constitution, which means that it is the law, i.e. the regulation of sui generis. He binds all those who enter this assembly, this home, representing and representing the policies and interests of those for whom they have come. The formal reasons I already mentioned were the alignment with the 2010 Law on the formation of ministries and state bodies, with the Law on Government and with the new Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. All three formal reasons cannot be avoided and they must be included in this decision. There are also informal reasons, which are an attempt to democratisation the debate in the Croatian Parliament, to allow for a better and clearer articulation of the position and to prevent the abuse of the institute provided for by the Rules of Procedure. For these reasons, we have decided that the Institute, the Business Institute, is correcting the incorrect allegations that it has in practice survived, which has proved to be suitable for abuse, for discrediting political opponents, political speakers, presentations, and we think that its time has passed. Instead of correcting the incorrect allegation, we have opted for the replica as a more democratic form, so in the context of a broader and democratic form of the Institute of Business it is possible to correct the incorrect quote, it is possible to make a different point. However, the replica implies that those who are able to respond to the replica and thus protect their political position, their political interest in not being a trick, and that the correcting of the incorrect quote has been shown in practice and that you cannot answer that correction. The second thing we wanted, and I think that we can all succeed in doing it together, to bring the business institute into harm's way with the Rules of Procedure. Compared to our first reading, we have accepted suggestions that the current form of statement of injury to the Rules of Procedure is to be left behind, so the representative who believes that the Rules of Procedure is injured will request that the chairman determines whether the infringement is done. The chairman will respond and determine whether or not he accepts that assessment or does not accept it. Unless he accepts, and the representative is dissatisfied with such an assessment, he has the right and the opportunity to address the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system by written means and the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure to assess its need and return to the Croatian Parliament the assessment of which the Croatian Parliament, or representatives, decide without discussion. If the representative announces and does not, or argues that it is a breach of the Rules of Procedure and does not, and the chairman rejects the request for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, he shall lose the right to use the Institute for the Infringement of the Rules of Procedure in the course of the proceedings, that kind of breach of the Rules of Procedure. It is our opinion that this will help to reduce the abuse of the Rules of Procedure's infringements, but that it is more used for the right purpose, the real goal is for MPs and all those representing the interests and policies to be able, without obstruction or abuse of the Institute of Business, to state their views and defend their views. In the proposal to amend and supplement this Rules of Procedure, I must establish that we have changed the obligation to enter the book of arrival in the Croatian Parliament, so the form written in electronic form on the basis of the representative's ID. We simply decided that step because it is easier, better, faster and cannot be falsified, or cannot be doubted by the signature, and in other things I have no doubt. We don't doubt other things, it can all be misused, but we don't doubt those other things. We believe in the responsibility of the MPs. That is why we advocate electronic control, that is, enrolment. Of course, there were objections regarding sanctioning representatives in the Croatian Parliament. One option is if we choose to develop and these options, i.e. to edit these possibilities could be the basis and record of this, but on this, by this. For now, we think that this step should be taken and that it is in some way more precise than the book of enrollment. For everything that is requested, questioned or proposed, we will return from the debate in the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system and offer to the Croatian Parliament to decide on this. For the introduction, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12474	Thank you very much. Okay, until we lift the correction of the incorrect allegations, the MPs will be able to use it. This right will now be used first by the respected representative Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12475	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Namely, it is incorrect to say that these amendments to the Rules of Procedure democratisation the possibility of communication in the Croatian Parliament. That's absolutely incorrect. A patch of MPs is placed on the only definition that exists in the Rules of Procedure, which is the definition of what is the correction of the incorrect assumption. Now there is no definition of what a replica is, what extent it can be, and how it will be treated when something is broader than a replica. So you're absolutely incorrectly saying that this is a democratisation that doesn't stand.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12476	The second correction, the Đurjica Sumrak's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12477	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Vice President Leko, when he explained this, he said an incorrect allegation, which is that with this electronic enrollment, it's more practical, it's safer and there's no counterfeiting. That's incorrect. There are fewer counterfeits and fewer things, of course, when we sign up with our hand in this book, and all other card manipulations have long been known.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12478	Third correction, distinguished representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12479	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I, too, have noticed this inaccuracies allegation that by abolishing this institute, an incorrect allegation would democratisation the debate. That's absolutely incorrect. As soon as someone has a second and last word, I think that's clear. It seems to me in some way that this goes in terms of those two articles, two articles might come to light. This is Article 1. Government and ruling are always right, and Article 2. Where they are wrong, Article 1 shall apply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12480	Thank you, too. Maybe the best contribution is to end this institute. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We're moving on to a debate. Clubs first. Club of Croatian Labourists and Honored Representative Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12481	A respected colleague of the vice president, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of the debate, I would refer to three things that my colleague Leko, Vice-President of the Parliament and the chairman of the Constitutional Committee said. He stressed that the removal of the book for enrollment and the introduction of electronic records modernise the work of the Parliament. I wish that were true, so that we no longer vote manually but to modernise the voting technique in the assembly because we're modernizing some kind of record, and we're not able to train or engage, I don't know what the problem is. But we vote manually as in the 19th century and I don't see any need for that. So, as far as modernization is concerned, I'd start with modernization here in the hall, and then electronic records. And teaching it was supposed to be if I understood very well the President of the Parliament whom you fellow Leko are replacing with the introduction into the second step that was expected of this Rules of Procedure, which is sanctioning those who are not coming. You said, and the sanctions on that, by that. I'm afraid the one about it will take so long for you to be in power. The importance of the Rules of Procedure is not only seen in the part where it really must prescribe working relationships, procedures, game rules. I believe that the Rules of Procedure have another significant relationship between the ruling and the opposition, the majority towards the minority and the possibility of violence of the majority over the minority of consciousness to the minimum. That's what the Rules of Procedure wrote. For those of you who won't remember because they've forgotten. Those of you who don't know, I'll convince you in short. In the previous term of the Croatian Parliament, when it was indeed a question of violence against the majority of minorities, in order to fight some of our opposition rights, we occupied the desk and this part of the hall protesting how to conduct the session, manipulation with the existing provisions of the Rules of Procedure, expressing great dissatisfaction and then we called it – violence of the majority over the minority. It is strange that no provision in the Rules of Procedure which, in addition to this unfortunate correction of the incorrect allegation, causes a more serious debate and responsiblely argues that the members of the Constitutional Committee did not have, in writing, all the proposals that were made by the clubs, either by the representatives, or by any other interested association, the organisations delivered back several months. The President of the Committee simply refused to give these materials in writing to the members of the Committee both when establishing the first text and when setting out this final text. That's a fact. Whoever he learns from writing Rules of Procedure in the Croatian Parliament is no longer clear to me because I know that the first Rules of Procedure and the first few versions of the Rules of Procedure were written by his colleague Seks, then he was another master of the procedure of writing the Rules of Procedure, which was now a colleague of Arlović, who is now the judge of the Constitutional Court, has some problems with the decisions of the Constitutional Court and the Rules of Procedures which he wrote and by falling some decisions that were based on it. And now they are inherited by fellow Leko, who is quite adamantly justifying himself by using alignment with the amendments to the Constitution, waiting for the Government Act, does not allow us to change the Rules of Procedure in those parts that we consider necessary. A large part of this should indeed be dedicated to the government's attitude towards the Parliament and position. For example, it illustrates this means that the opposition cannot function normally and function because it does not have the means, tools and means to invite anyone from the Government to the Croatian Parliament and to get answers to very important questions or to check the accuracy of some allegations that appear in the media. So let's say today it would be interesting to see if the media correctly quoted Prime Minister Milanovic as saying two days ago that he would prefer the process of resolving some of the border disputes of some parts of the territory of the Republic of Croatia because disputes take too long. Now a few specific questions and suggestions. If we have in our Rules of Procedure a provision under which the Government, all the state authorities and services of the Assembly must provide the MP with acts, information and information on what will be discussed in the Assembly, would it be normal to extend this obligation to the Assembly when a parliamentary representative or a representative club prepares some point of the agenda, some draft law, conclusions, resolutions, declarations, any other document? No, it's been denied. He just doesn't want to get into the Rules of Procedure. Is it normal for the Government to have a 30-day deadline to deliver an opinion on the opposition bill in order to allow parliamentary debate because in the working bodies, the non-opening of this debate is justified by the fact that the Government did not give an opinion? When there is no opinion of the Government and the position of the working body, a parliamentary debate shall not be opened. Nor does that 30-day deadline wish to be incorporated into the Rules of Procedure, and it is one of the few provisions where we have absolutely no deadline. According to the current Rules of Procedure, the Government may give an opinion on the opposition bill after 3 years, 11 months and 29 days. In a literal sense. Would it be normal if there was a working-body deadline? That the items included in the agenda may be discussed and put into effect within the prescribed time limit. Is that 15 days, 10, 20 we can discuss. But there is no deadline in the current Rules of Procedure. And until the parent board gives its opinion to the President of the Parliament, they cannot put on a plenary session and a parent body as well as the Government, therefore the parent board, any opposition proposal may be obstructed as long as they wish, because there is no deadline in the Rules of Procedure. Would it be normal and good to ask representatives' clubs questions, a public hearing when presenting government candidates for government members? I think so, but how to discuss it when you can't even put it into the proposal. Not just now, but more times. Would it be normal for a session of the Parliament to continue until the agenda is exhausted, not that there is the right of the chairman or president to interrupt the session whenever he wishes? And then, of course, 20 to 30 unsettled points at one session are transferred to another session, and what are these points? Objection proposals and reports. And then, in the reports on the work of the state bodies that are required to report to the Parliament in 2012 we are discussing in 2009 and 2010, because these points have constantly fallen out of the agenda because the sessions were interrupted before the agenda was exhausted. Would it be normal if the session had been interrupted for more than 7 days that there was no session to continue than to call a new session? Is it normal that the Parliament actually has only two sessions per year that are continuing to avoid the current morning and mandatory arrival of prime minister and government members in front of the Parliament? Why the current morning twice a year? What's with the two-week session? What's the order of the agenda if no one has to stick to it and every time we get on the table, it's worth the order of the agenda because tomorrow no one is bound by it? And what am I going to do now with such concrete suggestions? If it doesn't matter to anyone else that the parliamentary deputies know when the agenda will be, when the parent committee will discuss your proposal as a representative, either as a representative club, when the government will show itself about your proposal as referred to in the procedure. If no one else cares about the fact that most people cannot commit violence against the minority and block any debate on the opposition proposal by stalling it, not by giving an opinion, not by calling or not by putting it on the agenda of the working bodies. And all in the Rules of Procedure, all clean and all democratic. Then the question arises why is the Rules of Procedure in the first place? Then it's enough to have a chairman at the table who will each time determine the rules of conduct, depending on who runs the session. If this time too, the ruling majority does not want to take that step and give up the current model of work of the ruling majority in favour of the minority and allow the proposals to be put on the agenda, and the debate on them is open within an appropriate period. Then the purpose of the opposition in the Parliament would be to force you to speak only of the government's proposals. They impose an agenda, not just on the content, not just on the day of the week, but on the day of which they will open a topic. This also has a major impact on the quality of the debate and the work of the Parliament. And I end up the following, if you think that we are going to make the reputation and reputation of the Croatian Parliament and respect for the citizens, make us MPs and the Parliament as a whole by throwing into the trash a plate of correction of the wrong quote, and nothing else changes. Then either you don't understand why people are mad at us or it just serves you as a technical means, that so far and the only way to fight the opposition, and that is. Correction of an incorrect quote is lifted, and nothing else. I appreciate people who openly, and honestly, and with true arguments explain their suggestions, and I don't appreciate those who cheat, who speak of forms, laws to implement what they intend to do in favour of protecting their prime minister and government members.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12482	Thank you. The SDP club's position will now be presented by respected representative Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12483	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Here is the final proposal to amend and supplement the Rules of Procedure. And today, we are actually having this debate today and we are finishing the debate on the Rules of Procedure and most likely that things say that from autumn, after the summer break, we will be working on the amended Rules of Procedure. There have been a lot of discussions here in the assembly, both on committees and on the Committee on the Constitution, the political system and the Rules of Procedure, but there have been a lot of discussions in the public as well. I don't know if the amendments to the Rules of Procedure have ever caused so much heated debate and so much attention as this one. Of course, there have been discussions, there have been different opinions, and there have been speculations, about what brings new amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure. There have been good, but there have been false interpretations, intentional guilty or unwittingly guilty. And in the parliamentary struggle, it is allowed, and to present the false interpretations. Of course, I don't justify them, but some people do. About the debate, first of all by the opposition, when it comes to amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, it was the following: that what is done is not democratic, that the objective of amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure is to target the opposition, that the aim is to silence the opposition, to prevent the opposition from speaking, that this is the asphyxiation of parliamentaryism, etc. All of this, of course, isn't true, and I'll try to answer that. So, it's not what's said first or last false and manipulation, and I don't care much, but when something says something that's not right, which is not good, which is wrong interpretation, it's right and it's polite if it's possible to react to it. So, all this stuff that's been said so far, and I don't think it's true, I'll try and show it. Otherwise, changes and additions to the Rules of Procedure have about 60 members who are changing, but more or less have caused 3 changes. It's the elimination of an incorrect quote, I'd say so-called. Inaccurately, it was often so-called. an unreal inaccuracies. Injury of the Rules of Procedure that is regulated differently. And thirdly, it's recently caused a debate over how to register parliamentary deputies here in the Parliament. So let me get back to this first one, about abolishing an incorrect quote. So, I'd even say formal is, the institute of an incorrect quote is being abolished, but it's not really being abolished. And I think the whole gap here is in the assembly, in the whole public view of what's wrongly interpreted as something called abolishing, and it's not actually eliminating an incorrect quote, it's replacing it. Nothing else happens but the correction of the incorrect quote replaces the replica. So no one allows anyone to say something that he wanted to correct the incorrect assumption now says, but it's not going to be called a correction of an incorrect quote, it's going to be a replica. So it's not abolished, it's replaced. And it is replaced by something that is much more democratic and much, in a parliamentary sense better, because it allows two-way communication, allowing someone who corrects an incorrect assumption to respond to what he says. So, so far we've had, I'd say a lower democratic standard. Here behind this pay phone when speaking on behalf of a club or a representative of the government could not be replicated, it could only be corrected by an incorrect quote, and then the one to whom it was corrected by an incorrect quote, regardless of whether it was a representative of the club or any opposition or representative of the government, could therefore not be replicated and he cannot respond. You can say to whoever from this pay phone what you want, under the form of correcting an incorrect quote that was mostly misused, and the one you allegedly corrected can't say anything about it. Is that democratic? Of course not. So now the representative of the government who speaks from this pay phone and the representative of the club can also be represented by what he is saying and correct the incorrect quote in the form of a replica. But, of course, it allows him to react to it afterwards, which has not been possible so far. We're all aware of that, but we don't want to admit that it was that way. My last debate here from this pay phone, when I spoke on behalf of the club, caused six corrections to the incorrect allegations. I listened carefully after listening to them again, not one was the correcting of an incorrect quote. But of course the chairmans here at this assembly table are tired of saying it's not a correction to an incorrect quote. ...were pure replicas, but of course I couldn't react to it, not just me, but anyone else. So I'm introducing something I would say which is much more democratic, which is a far greater degree of expression of parliamentaryism than it was. So the inaccuracy institute is formally abolished as such but is really replaced by a replica. So it is possible for it to be corrected, not to be called an incorrect quote but a replica, but the one to whom the correction has the right to react. So, who has been used by such an inaccuracies institute so far? So whoever was trying to abuse him, whose goal was to keep someone from this pay phone or the bench from saying something that might not even stand or often does not stand, but you shut your mouth to him in the Rules of Procedure because he can't react and it has been misused. So, the one who had unclean intentions is now very rebelling that it is abolished. Those who truly have pure intentions that want to correct the incorrect allegations will be able to do so in a replica, so they will not wait for the order for the debate but again by the law of the championship but they are allowed for one whose allegations are corrected under quotes to react. So there will be no more abuses and it seems to bother some. I don't care about us at the SDP club either. So we're introducing I'd say a higher level of communication and I don't see anything wrong with that, though. As for the breach of the Rules of Procedure and so far, we have been aware of the many times of abuse because it is the same institute that allows you to react to the discussion of the one who spoke before. And it has often not been the correction of the Rules of Procedure but it is being misused and will now be able to correct the damage to the Rules of Procedure in the future but it is being serious, as it is not essentially abolished, in fact, it does not end the previous institution of correcting the incorrect allegations but is being replaced by a replica, as it does here with the breach of the Rules of Procedure. It doesn't go away, but it's getting serious. In what way? To whoever uses this institute and who raises a plate for the breach of the Rules of Procedure must indeed have a firm argument and when the chairman explains that it was not a violation of the Rules of Procedure he must present his opinion to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure... within 24 hours on why he considers it to be a breach of the Rules of Procedure. If he does not do so, then he loses the right to lose his right to harm the Rules of Procedure on that point during the session. This makes it impossible for those who wish to abuse the institute to do so in the future. So the true and true violations of the Rules of Procedure remain still open and no one is questioning them, but until now it has been used just enough to argue that the right of the Championship to respond to someone rather than to indicate what is or does not stand in the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, we see no reason not to change that too to bring it to a higher democratic level and to a higher parliamentary level. The higher parliamentary level involves much more respect, telling the truth and arguments rather than untrue and not arguments. If it is for someone to tell the truth and arguments that do not stand a parliamentary struggle, then we understand differently democracy in different terms the concept of democracy and parliamentary struggle. It's just a sentence about registration. We have so far had it under the Rules of Procedure, the Institute as an obligation of the Rules of Procedure to enroll in the book of arrival. It's right here in front of the gate on this side of the opposition and so far we've been signing up. What do we do now? If we read this article well, instead of writing in the book, we will now do so by electronic means, using the congregation card we have in our pocket. No less than that. So what we've done so far by writing in the book now we're going to do it electronically and I really don't see any problem or reason to raise dust because it's simply modernising or lifting to a higher technical level means registration. So neither are these amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure that we are discussing what many have wanted to interpret and interpret against the opposition, nor is the aim of silence, nor is it to prevent anyone from speaking, nor is it drilling against parliamentaryism, but rather, the opposite of all that. It is precisely these amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure that will allow more parliamentaryism in this assembly to continue to correct the incorrect allegations in form or in the concept of replication but can also be reacted to as the expression of simply higher parliamentaryism and two-way communication that has not been possible so far. And what will be able to look for the Institute's injuries to the Rules of Procedure as it has been but now it's serious, so all that's said that's not good is actually good and we don't see any reason why it doesn't need to change. And he is not directed against the opposition, nor for the opposition, nor for the position, nor goes to the hands of the government, nor goes to the hands of the government, because simply to be clear, until now when the government's representative spoke after this speaker could not be replicated. Now it can be replicated to anyone and also to a representative of the Government, but it can be corrected by an incorrect quote, saying whatever it wants and not correcting the incorrect allegations but a representative of the Government or a representative of the club... could not respond. Therefore, these amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure are indeed a democratic step forward, allowing more democracy, more parliamentaryism, and it is against those who want to abuse this speaker, and I do not think it is necessary to question whether it should be misused or used. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12484	Thank you. Now we're going to hear some of the latest corrections of an incorrect quote. First, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12485	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I'll prove that this correction to the incorrect assumption is not misused. It is incorrect that the correction of an incorrect quote replaces you with a replica, you cannot replace something with something when something already exists, the replica already exists. You're removing that correction of an incorrect assumption. That's one thing. Second, it's incorrect that it couldn't be replicated. So how can you replicate to a club representative who gives the club's opinion, how will he respond to our replica, on behalf of whom? That was why there was no replica of the club's representative's exposure. And the other thing is that the correcting of an incorrect quote favored those who had unclean intentions. I'm sorry, colleague Jelusic, if you think that for 8 years at the SDP club you had extremely unclean intentions because not once but thousands of times you've used the correction of an incorrect quote. He said that those who had defiant intentions were using the Institute of Inaccuracy. You can check that in a phonogram, and that's why I told you that, and what I mentioned about the SDP club, I could say any other club, and let's just say us.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12486	No, something else bothers me, what you said couldn't replace something that already exists. You can replace the wooden bench with a stone bench even though the stone bench already exists. That's a little illogical. Is there another place? The second correction to the incorrect quote, Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12487	Mr. Vice President, we're really thrilled with these jumps and jumps because this really doesn't feel like it here in Parliament, but here you are using it all the time to correct us. Here I am correcting the inaccuracies of fellow John who really said a lot here, so he says he wants to be with this post' democracy, demagogy, and I am correcting him that there is no greater than this demagogy he has said. Comrade Ivo, you have convinced yourself that this is the right adoption of amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure, so you have said that this will make it far better, otherwise it has not been. From this demagogy you're here...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12488	Can we find out what's wrong? Can we find out what's wrong first?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12489	Falsely, I said what is incorrect so listen to what is incorrect. So this is a demagogy the way the world hasn't seen you from the SDP club, it's probably not just your opinion, you're saying because this is really killing democracy and right of speech. So I'm correcting everything you said not to allow any representative to say what he thinks in the future. You're saying a representative of the government will be able to respond, so that his will be the last, why his is correct and correct, and any representative who corrected him...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12490	Can we stick to time?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12491	Or the replicated isn't accurate. Why should the opinion of the Government's representative be true?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12492	Let's stick to time. Next correction, distinguished Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12493	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, it is an absolutely incorrect argument from counterpart Jelusic that so far, a representative of the motionor or representative of the government could not respond to the correction of the incorrect allegations. In Article 211, the proposer or representatives of the motionors designated by him could speak in the opening statement at the beginning of the debate for a maximum period of 30 minutes, in the presentation at the end of the debate for a maximum period of 30 minutes, and on the occasion of each explanation given during the debate for a maximum period of 10 minutes, his colleague Jelusic. That was quite enough in those moments to answer any meal or lie you were talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12494	Now, the president has some explaining to do. He really couldn't after correcting the incorrect allegations but had to wait for a new debate to take advantage of his right to speak as a representative of the government... Yes, yes, and according to that article, we all acted equally. [[The speakers speak in the same voice, of course.]] Correcting the incorrect quote you misquote the Rules of Procedure which have been in force here for how many years now. Correction, Djurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12495	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Jelusic, you have cited a number of incorrect allegations in your debate, and one among other things is that the formal abolition of the institution is an incorrect allegation and that the institute of replicas is being introduced. So the replica exists and it's known that the replica has always been the answer in the replica. In an incorrect allegation, a number of MPs, when the institution is abolished, therefore sets up a replica of a member of the government, a member of the government whatever he wants answers, no longer has the right to respond. So please, what's formal here and what's democracy here, which is what we Parliamentarians put and represent here.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12496	Next correction, the esteemed Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12497	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I have noticed these incorrect allegations, too, but I will certainly concentrate on this one where counterpart Jelusic says that the institute of an incorrect quote is really not abolished but is introduced by a more democratic one, which is a replica. Well, that's incorrect, of course, and the replica exists as such. And another incorrect assumption is that the aim of using the correcting of the incorrect allegations was to those MPs who had unholy intentions. So you insult fellow dearly and us on the left and right and your colleagues have used in the past many times the institution of an incorrect allegation. And I do not believe that good parliamentaryism will contribute to this debate that disqualifies your colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12498	And the final correction of the incorrect allegations, the esteemed representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12499	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, indeed, my colleague Jelusic's argument was drugging to correct the incorrect allegations. In fact, it is incorrect to say a few things, and one of these is to quote: The abolition of the correcting of the incorrect allegations, to abolish the fact that our parliamentary debate is rising to a higher level, and then, of course, parliamentaryism at all. In fact, it would be illogical to say that by abolishing one of the Rules of Procedure's institutions on the work of the Croatian Parliament, something is rising to a higher level, because the replica is my desire to pollemise with you, and correcting an incorrect quote is my desire to correct something, to correct some fact, some of your allegations. And now I'm doing it, so I'm correcting your assumption that a formal correction of an incorrect quote is abolished without really ending it. In fact, I don't want to do this at all with you, but to correct that incorrect assumption because it's not true, if the correction is lifted then it is abolished and nothing else is being replaced.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12500	Time, time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12501	And in order for a fellow dear to be a sign that we raise parliamentary democracy to a higher level is absolutely at the limit of absurdity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12502	Now we're going to hear HDZ attitudes. They will be presented by distinguished representative Davorim Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12503	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will abuse this time and apologize to the Croatian public if it is still involved at all because at a time when we have much more important concerns and a lot of bigger problems will turn out to be our own business, it will turn out to be trivial. However, when we are able to spread only that cloak, then we will see that we are fighting here for something completely different. I would not like the public to translate that if we fought for hours to correct the incorrect allegations that is probably completely irrelevant to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. We are talking here, and other colleagues on parliamentaryism have started, on democracy and above all about freedoms, in this case the freedoms of parliamentary deputies. And it is our opinion that you cannot give too much freedom, that freedom can only be limited by the freedom of others, that is, by using our freedoms, we must not insult the freedoms of other fellow citizens or whatever it is. That should be the only limit. And since this time as a position of opportunity to set the rules of the game in this House, then it would be worth it if you stood up for our freedom, freedom of speech, even if it was used through the institute to correct the incorrect allegations. It is quite deplaced to say that when you have three instruments in the debate, someone takes one away from you that you have raised democracy to a higher level. However, if you had given three more new instruments to be served by a representative, this could be considered by strengthening freedom of speech, giving your views, your thoughts, and not by denying one institution at a time. Because it is already known that there are various possibilities to manipulate the parliamentary procedure from the choice of topics and times when they will be on the agenda to when any medium will transfer or not transfer the debate if it can decide not to respond to it, and then we are now also coming to the end of certain institutes that have come to life in some parliamentary practice. The explanation that we have not heard so often in the second reading so often made in the first reading of the amendments to the Rules of Procedure is the fact that this institute has been misused too many times, so we have decided that it should then be abolished. And then we talked about when it was an argument to abolish as first chair has instruments and has an instrument that introduces order at the session and which can warn and punish anyone who abuses any of the rights that are due to the Rules of Procedure. And accordingly, if that's an argument, then I ask you if in six months, you have announced new amendments to the Rules of Procedure, and the replica has been abused, so let's put the replica and colleagues of Jelusic up democracy and parliamentaryism to an even higher level. And so one instrument at a time instead of leaving the possibility of at least having an opinion that you disagree with shows me a little bit of the possibility that parliamentary representatives should give you their views, to take an opinion in the final line of their voters because we are not just talking here in our own interest, but in the interest of those who chose us to represent them in Parliament. This would be like a principled remark to all that was made when the amendments to the Rules of Procedure were discussed. As for the technique or concrete remarks, let us say, if it is said that something is now being introduced that has come between the first and second readings or in particular Article 5. The final proposal for a decision to record the presence of parliamentary representatives in the Assembly, that this is a palitative measure that is of little use to anything. This measure does not speak of the fact that because of what is listed in the Rules of Procedure, parliamentary representatives will be sitting in this building every day for 8 hours or longer, that this will be their presence at the workplace in the Assembly, and they are thought to be working only in the Assembly, which is also wrong, that they will be able to account for it and that then finally, with those monthly pay stamps, you will be counting the working hours that you have actually spent here. What's said isn't true for a few reasons. This article is replaced by 220 which is deleted, which has been said to have been an obligation so far, that Article 220 in the proposal for this Decision in Article 49. Let's just explain because of those who listen to us eventually. That book, where parliamentary representatives wrote that the present was the head of XI. The Rules of Procedures you change at the session and only enroll when they attended the plenary session, not every day, not the whole working week, but most often as the Assembly met and plenary debate on Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays. What you're proposing right now is not talking about the presence at the plenary session, it's talking about electronic records. The representative confirms his arrival in the Croatian Assembly by electronic means. The electronic path failed even in the vote, we have been struggling for years and we have failed to resolve electronics so that we can vote in these benches given the installed equipment probably greater value here in the assembly for years, and now we will go to the electronic presence of parliamentary representatives and that only if they have to confirm their arrival in the Assembly, they do not have to confirm that they have left the Parliament. In paragraph 2, electronic confirmation is also referred to as the participation of representatives in the work of working bodies, the travel of representatives under the approval of the President of the Croatian Parliament, and the obligation to the club of representatives. These are neither all the obligations that Parliamentarians have, nor this covers everything you wanted to say, and that in any case is contrary to all that parliamentary representatives should do in the exercise of their mandate. And so we believe that this provision is extremely unnecessary, that it's eye-snatching to the public, that you didn't want to establish eight-hour working hours every day of the week for parliamentary deputies, and you believed that we wouldn't get caught up in the public eye. And if you already wanted to know who and how much it works in the Assembly, then you should have, apart from the fact that the arrival should be confirmed electronically every time, and how long it takes, and you should have indicated what in the case of those who did not carry out their mandate by saying enough time in the Assembly what it means, how many days do you need if you assume we have some obligations and work outside the Parliament. You should have arranged what that means for those you allow to be mayors at the same time. You are announcing even changes that even the mayors will again be parliamentary representatives, that it will not be incompatible duties. But you haven't found out how we're going to solve it then, if anything after the approval of the President of the Croatian Parliament or if there are other ways to determine their presence. So we think that for both the Proposer and the Parliament, it is more correct and fairer instead of actually misleading all those who are going to read this to get this norm out of the Rules of Procedure. And it's not the only norm we should throw out. We suggested, but you did not listen to us even in the first reading, that the working relations of civil servants in the Assembly are not the subject of the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament. And regardless of the arguments that I have the impression that you've even accepted them in some way, not only is there left, but that solution leads us to another problem. Namely, Article 8, you have scheduled, or arranged, the working relationship of those civil servants who are admitted to the representatives' clubs for a period of time during the term of office of this club of representatives of the Croatian Parliament. These people, according to what you have already assured us that political appointments are much more transparent than the competitions, so and now these people are accepted without the execution of the competition, without examining the basic criteria for working in those jobs, but unlike what you have said earlier and what you have tied to the cabinets of individual ministers here in Article 30.b, you say that they will also be admitted if there are unfulfilled jobs, pardons in the 30th, that these people will not stop their working relationship in the Croatian Parliament but, at the end of the term of the Assembly, these officials will be assigned to job openings for which they meet the conditions. I do not know when we will be able for the first time at all to determine the conditions that these persons fulfil, and if there is no job opening to which they can be deployed, the provisions of the laws relating to the making available of officials to the Government shall apply accordingly. It is actually a small door to the new employment in the Croatian Parliament again and if there will be unfulfilled jobs we will deploy all of these people who have been accepted for a certain period of time, and if they happen to meet some of the criteria for jobs, at the end of the term of office we will deploy to the professional services of the Assembly and thus further supplement our professional services. Speaking of official relations, we will also draw your attention to Article 9 because this so far is unknown in parliamentary practice, but also in the working relations of civil servants. After the Secretary of Parliament and Deputy Secretary of Parliament, you have now introduced another new post, either called Deputy Secretary of State or Assistant Secretary of Parliament. So I think it would be a lot simpler if you'd listened to our remarks, so you'd have arranged the job differently. It is the job of the person who is the assistant secretary, and for whom the President of the Parliament will determine that he can replace the Deputy Secretary of Parliament. And we told you in the first reading when the government was so advanced that it invented the unnecessary position of Secretary-General of the Government because there were no more secretaries there than there was a secretary of government and his deputies or assistants, when you already had the Secretary-General in the Government, it might have been an opportunity for the Parliament to open up a seat for the Secretary-General of the Croatian Parliament, and then the secretary of the plenary session could be the secretary of the Parliament and get rid of these robot solutions as you do today that there is a place as deputy secretary with a lot of work and fixed jobs. It is only unfortunate that such a solution is proposed to this Rules of Procedure. And to conclude, the opinion of the HDZ Club is that this is an unnecessary amendment to the Rules of Procedure. Not only unnecessary, but at the wrong time. And instead of solving what might be much bigger problems in the work and plenary sessions and individual committees we have dealt with more or less trivial things and what we have tried to solve you have dealt with in an extremely unsatisfactory way. One institution that you claim to have abused all MPs and in which the chairpersons who are referred to the Rules of Procedure can surely overcome and control instead of telling the chairman enough I would have taught the Rules of Procedure, that they could have used it properly instead, you punished the parliamentary representatives, so you took them one of the opportunities to speak at the plenary session. It is no contribution to democracy, it is just a new way of suppressing and saying in the Parliament and democracy as a lofty concept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12504	Thank you. I now give the word to the proposer, the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system to the Vice-President of the House of Honored Josip Lek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12505	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. In fact, I do not think that there is a need to depolmise with the views of the legislators regarding the Rules of Procedure and the solutions contained in the proposal for a decision. It cannot be done by the Rules of Procedure, nor by the Rules of Procedure, to erase the fundamental difference between us. That there is power and responsibility for power and opposition and opposition. And by the logic of things, we look at things differently. Whether for 8 years you have acted as a government as is the HDZ, it now stands out for the Croatian public that electronics is not working here. It's like the current position was responsible for why electronics didn't work. ... Let me speak without your comments. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I kept my mouth shut. Second, you're talking about hiring through clubs. Well, that solution was in the Rules of Procedure now, and it was just the press that was used to hire a club of MPs and schedules later on to other jobs outside of the MPs' club to try to prevent it, and we did it in the proposal of the Rules of Procedure. It literally says, "I can't be deployed to jobs outside of the club of MPs in which they were admitted." It's in the text, and so far they could. And now that peach we're trying to disable by regulation, and that's a matter of responsibility, indeed, there's a question of responsibility. Secondly, to accuse the promoter of killing democracy because it gives greater opportunity, and certainly the replica as an institute allows, not only to correct the incorrect allegations, but to make arguments, and against attitudes, the views of the one who speaks. And to say that he was not one, but ten allegations that he had guilty, ten. Therefore, I think we should at least have an elementary responsibility, so what we cannot argue is not disputed. There is reason to dispute, it is not the Rules of Procedure that produce only this decision, nor is it the product of one generation of MPs, nor is it a mandate. Nor does anyone have the ambition to now resolve relations within the Croatian Parliament, and the development of parliamentary democracy, and the debate for ever. I'm convinced and I say to the public that it's much more democratic, the institute of replica than the correction of an incorrect allegation. True, it was convenient to have as an institute if you want to use yourself with abuse. You can say that he was incorrectly speaking, that he gave you incorrect information, facts or anything, and no one could answer you. To be called that club representatives do not have or do not have the opportunity to answer is correct. 5.6 Correction of an incorrect quote and can return to the bench and sit in the benches, it was by me, it was offensive to me for him who spoke, and he could not answer the abuse. As for the position of counterpart Lesar, he is fully open, the Rules of Procedure do not only serve to enable one party, one club or only the opposition to achieve its political goals, express their political views or their policies. The measure between protection, to enable, allows priorities and responsible behaviour and the achievement of policy and position, also the tasks of the Rules of Procedure. It must be possible for those who are in a position to have priorities they have promised citizens. It would be illogical if the agenda and priorities were now established in the Croatian Parliament of the opposition, that would be illogical. Therefore, we cannot say that the Rules of Procedure did not ensure that the position came to the realization of its political views, programmes, which were in the elections or that it did not allow the opposition to resolve anything. Whether it's eight days, 15 days or 30 days, it's something else, it's something else. Therefore, the Rules of Procedure must find a measure of obligation to enable the authorities to implement their priorities through the agenda, policy, etc. as well as allowing the opposition to express its political views, its ideas, to defend them in this House. Did we find a measure after 20 years of Croatian democracy and parliamentaryism, probably not. The development of parliamentaryism and the Croatian Parliament is not finished, there are various solutions. Many here have been in various parliaments, and I have been fortunate to see the debate come true and the views of the defence in the various parliaments of the countries of the European Union. And I have never seen any Parliament like each other before, except in the basics of having to make speech possible, not correcting an incorrect quote without responsibility for speech, I have not seen it. Therefore, it is an attempt to make a step and we stay in that it is a good attempt, to make it possible for citizens to better recognise what anyone defends, which is true and why who advocates it. That's my opinion, and I'm staying on it, and that opinion has been given official form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12506	Now we'll hear the corrections. First Reverend Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12507	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President and Honorable Vice President Leco. Don't be mad at me, I told you what you wrote. So you said that you have now disabled the admission of civil servants to the Council's professional services to these interventions in the Rules of Procedure, those which have been admitted for a certain period of time. Your article 8 reads: "State officials are assigned to the jobs of the representatives' clubs for a certain period of time, with their consent until the day of the term of office of the individual assembly." Paragraph 3: "At the end of the term of office of the Assembly, the officials referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be assigned to the vacancy for which they fulfil the conditions, and if there is no vacancy to which they may be deployed, the relevant provisions of the law relating to... "Shortly, you will take the person you took for a certain time from the Ministry of Administration, who now works in the cabinet of the minister and is employed for a certain time without criteria. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You will transfer him to the SDP counseling club, work here until the end of the term of this call, and will then be deployed to the Parliament's professional services.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12508	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Your Honor, Mr. Leco.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12509	I think it's good, in this case, that I have to use a breach of the Rules of Procedure as well as that...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12510	You just have to say what article.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12511	209th and 214th, 214th and 209ths are absolutely certain. Shall we read? We won't. So, a colleague of the Mlakar is talking about a second category of workers, and I've been talking to newly admitted club workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12512	Dear colleague Leko.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12513	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12514	I think we're gonna do this. My dear colleague, Lecko, I think we'll clear this up in a simpler way. You can appear as a proposer after any debate, but let's not use the Injury Institute of the Rules of Procedure where it doesn't belong. Now it will correct Mr. Djakic's incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12515	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In fact, counterpart Leko incorrectly claimed that even the current current Rules of Procedure could be employed without a public tender. No, my colleague, Leko, that's absolutely not true. In Article 30, in the last sentence: "The adviser referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article must comply with the conditions laid down in the law and other regulations and the law shall speak clearly. You wrote in article 30.b of your proposal for a Rules of Procedure "at the workplaces of a representative’s club a person can be admitted to the state service for a specified time, without the previous execution of a public tender or a public service advert". Well, that's something that conflicts with the Law on civil servants and tenants, and that's what shouldn't happen in this House that makes the laws and regulations apply to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12516	Now, this is a good example for my colleague Djakic, if the motionary would now answer you, I must not give him a word in our Rules of Procedure. That's what we talked about earlier. So now I'm giving Mrs. Kosor a word to correct the incorrect allegations.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12517	Thank you very much. You're taking my time in this mutual communication. Mr. Vice President. In fact, Mr. Vice President Leco said it wasn't the Rules of Procedure's product of one term. I'm correcting that quote, I think it's incorrect. Why do I think it's incorrect? Because these precisely these amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure are being denied. For example, the provision that MPs who are state officials will have to be registered electronically from now on will have consequences for the development of parliamentary democracy in Croatia in the long term. The constitution says we live in parliamentary democracy and that the government is responding to the Parliament. So the representatives, committee presidents, vice presidents, president of the Croatian Parliament, because we all have to register each day by electronic means without the ministers, the Prime Minister, the assistants, deputy ministers, having to do so. And you're going to make this proposal that I'm certainly not going to vote for actually different categories of government officials. And that's what's wrong because both ministers and assistants, deputies ultimately also correspond to the Croatian Parliament and how many ministers were in their jobs. Because a minister may not enter his ministry for 15 days, for a month, a deputy minister not to enter his ministry, not to touch anything. Take a look at the records from the last 4 years of the Croatian Parliament's work, MP Milanović, today the Prime Minister has not had a single individual debate In conclusion, therefore, a very double criterion is introduced in determining what is a state official and what is not and what are the obligations of state officials in Parliament and in the executive government. [[Intruder: Time of colleague Kosor, time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12518	I'm now realizing that you've exactly double-crossed the time foreseen for correcting an incorrect quote. Instead of a minute, you said two. And it would be a good idea to stick to the Rules of Procedure, and it would be easier for you and me and everyone. At 15.15, the time for individual application was 10 minutes. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB club, distinguished representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12519	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. And it is evident from the debate that it seems necessary to change the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament because sometimes here we are when we have to carry out responsible duties can be wrong in applying business articles. Namely, the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament is a fundamental act of the Croatian Parliament and without it the Croatian Parliament cannot work. The fact is that this Rules of Procedure, which has been in force for many years, is not so modern anymore, and Croatia is soon becoming a member of the EU that should have changed it. But the way, the terms, were the solutions of Vice-President Parliament and you spoke on behalf of the SDP club last time, so they were quite constructive proposals of opposition clubs, I don't think that these amendments to that final proposal have included any of the key proposals, some minor changes, but they are not so necessary. We are in the opinion of the HDSSB club that the Croatian Parliament should first of all be no one's retirement waiting room or waiting room for a good salary or waiting room when it is waiting to be a firewall to go home, when a long vacation is due, but that we MPs respond first and foremost to those who chose us and this is to the Croatian people. At the beginning of this government's term, we went wrong. One of the first discussions was the debate on the abolition of parliamentary so-called "registration". Preferred pensions. Then, in the debate on parliamentary representatives, we put colleagues, some of whom are here and 7 mandates in the Croatian Parliament. It should be recalled that the Croatian Parliament is the most representative body of citizens in Croatia and that the Croatian government, all ministers stem from this very High House. Sometimes it is sad and sad to see that we are talking to empty chairs and we believe that the legislator's intention in this case in the electronic regulation of coming to the Assembly was precisely this picture, a picture that was wrongly sent to the Croatian public that the Assembly was empty, that the parliamentary representatives were not here, that they did not contribute to the improvement of Croatia, that sometimes we brought ourselves to the pillar of shame. And that's not good. It is good for us to get better, and it is good for this basic act to be better for Parliament’s Rules of Procedure to serve, above all, not only for us MPs but also for the people who chose us. How long are we gonna talk? If all these solutions are good, it'll show time. At this moment, we cannot accept these amendments to the Parliamentary Rules of Procedure in this proposal, which is the final draft of the law above all that we have and in the previous debate on behalf of the club, warned that here is Croatia at the threshold of EU entry, we should only look into European Parliament solutions where there are several institutes where MPs can speak. We here, Vice President of the Parliament and the chairman of the board, take that institute to one, that's a replica. Is it good for a representative to pollomise with a representative of the government in a way that the government's representative answers the last one, the representative can no longer say anything on the open subject, and that same representative has just given confidence to that minister and the government. It might be good already if we went so far as to abolish something new that we suggest that something more modern, more modern, we would like to give representatives as a tool of work in the Croatian Parliament, perhaps it would be good for those chosen from this House to respond to those who chose them. So in our view, it is not a good solution that the last one, regardless of what is good to speak and pollomise, is being debated in any form, because the advocate who speaks is not a representative, a representative who does not want to speak is not a representative, a representative who is only silent is not a representative, a representative who waits for time to pass is not a representative and he creates a bad picture of the Croatian Parliament, creates a bad picture of Croatia, creates a bad picture of a country that will enter the EU. We need to think about whether this solution is that through the replica more representatives after the government or club president's reply can't say anything, it's really not good for us and we need to think about it regardless of what this is finally about to change. We believe that the amendment of the Rules of Procedure that will come through Croatia's entry into the EU by harmonising the provisions of the Republic of Croatia's Constitution that the Assembly will hand over to us the institutions of Croatia to the EU that in these amendments of the Rules of Procedure we are about to make a better contribution to the work of the Croatian Parliament. The truth is also that on all sides, and the ruling and opposition, sometimes the correction of the incorrect quote we used wrongly, and the fact is that all MPs, and many of us are in the assembly of parliaments must be new, each one leaving, the other coming, they don't need to know everything, but the fact is that they should speak, even sometimes wrong. It is also a fact that it is necessary to prevent anyone from saying anything to say, that someone should report for a note and say that at the end of the term, he was the most valuable representative or representative, and in fact he didn't say anything. The fact is, we have parliamentary representatives of this VII. Calls on the most important historical call because we MPs will introduce Croatia to the European Union next year, we will sit in Parliament. It is by our conduct, by our work, by our responsible work in the Croatian Parliament that we should make a contribution to those who have chosen us. We believe that each of our voters who gave us the vote in any form will expect us first of all to deserve it. We, unlike other parliaments, have much to learn. It used to be honorable to sit here, today when you come somewhere maybe even embarrassingly to say that you're a representative, people misjudge us. Sometimes two, three individual appearances can create the wrong picture of all of us. We were advocates that we should not talk about what we have all used in times of history and circumstances. So if that correction to an incorrect quote is so unnecessary, if people are going to live, then they need to be abolished, but they need to be given an institute that's going to be better, not an institute that's not going to change anything at all, except that we're not going to get on someone's nerves anymore. This time we won't get on the nerves of the ruling, the SDP and the partners because we won't be able to answer or speak to the end of what we really think. In the time ahead, and we have time, we can agree on everything, and in the opinion of the HDSSB Club, this was one of the key issues to agree on the way we're going to work. This is our instrument, this is the only way we can work and talk, this is the only way we can make better, quality laws. We are here to improve our lives in Croatia, either on the side of the ruling, or on the side of the opposition. Because if there's no clear, high-quality and firm opposition, there's no quality or firm government, I guess that's clear to everyone. If it were one-of-a-kind, then Croatia would not deserve to join the European Union and we would not be a country that can be honored and proud of what we have done in a short time, which is that in difficult circumstances we have become a European country, that in difficult circumstances and economic crisis Croatia has taken the right path to become a European country. It is now up to us that the Croatian Parliament becomes a truly European Parliament in terms of the work of MPs, in terms of changing the time we live in and in this case in some technical procedures in the Rules of Procedure, we fully support the Committee President, because we believe that your experience and the way you have worked on these key issues for the work of the Croatian Parliament so far, you have your contribution. But we representatives of the Croatian Parliament and all those colleagues who today, for justified or unjust reasons, are not here should not be treated as something that this Croatian government does not need. If we remind ourselves, the executive government's representative, Minister Jovanovic, announced changes to the Rules of Procedure at a meeting. According to us, this was to be announced by the President of the Parliament, you Vice President, you second Vice President and any of you who are sitting here in this House of Commons. We are all responsible regardless of who has the majority for the work of the Croatian government today, we are responsible for the work of every ministry, every minister and we are responsible for the future of Croatia. A strong and firm opposition, an opposition that will speak with arguments, and even an opposition that will at some point in its speeches and make mistakes, is what you Vice President Stazic said in your debate that perhaps it should be supported, and Mr Pupovac said that, the authority of the chair meeting that at a certain point should react, should be able to assess the moment whether it was really good or bad and it is justified for us. But what was in this first proposal was finally fixed well, that the breach of the Rules of Procedure would respond immediately, because, waiting 24 hours and finally 48 hours, the sense of self-infringing of the Rules of Procedure is lost, and the moment and time in which the representative wishes to point out that something was injured under the business provision. What you have changed, which is that the chairman will respond as quickly as he can, and the representative will decide whether to submit in writing a breach of the Rules of Procedure, we also consider it a good change. And is it good that if a representative announces a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and he does not do so, he can no longer speak about these injuries, we believe that perhaps we should consider it further. Time is ahead of us, it is time for all of us to learn, we never know enough, but it is time for us to start dealing with serious topics, topics that are plagued by Croatian citizens and Croatian people, people who may not have a job today, people who today can't pay their directors and bills, the time to actually, too much and really in the most democratic way, spend the politics and work of all parties in the Croatian Parliament, all clubs, regardless of whether they are on the side of opposition or ruling. We believe in the good intentions of the promoters when it comes to the need to change this Rules of Procedure, and we believe that there will be at least two of these changes in mistakes because in some institutes, comparing both Germany and Italy and Hungary, countries already members of the European Union, there are at least two three institutes where a representative can speak in time of two to five minutes whether it is a violation of the Rules of Procedure, whether it is a personal opinion, whether it is a separate statement, all of this is similar. We should not have gone far, we should have just looked at the experiences of the countries that are members of the European Union. We do not need to copy everything, Croatia is traditionally a parliamentary country, but from those who have achieved much more in front of us in times ahead we have something to learn. And in the end, I said, we're not against the amendments to the Rules of Procedure. In this form, the HDSSB club cannot accept it, but in any case we call for the responsibility and wisdom of those who are now deciding. You have a majority, and I am sure that you will bring these amendments, but I call on you and for cooperation when Croatia really becomes a full member of the European Union, when we have to change our Rules of Procedure specifically in accordance with the amendments to the Constitution, I call on you together as the real representatives of the Croatian Parliament, responsible and fair, to make our basic document a real document, and to start dealing with real problems in Croatia, and these are the problems that plague our citizens. Then we will earn what we have chosen, and that is the will of the Croatian people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12520	Thank you. Now the respected representative, Jozo Radoš, will present the views of the HNS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12521	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Here I will immediately start with this as the most important point of change of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament is shown, and that is the question of correcting the incorrect quote. I must immediately point out that all those who defend the remaining incorrect allegations in a way that they do directly contradict the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. It is very clear there when a correction of the incorrect quote can be said and we know in the last 15 years that we are not going now to a certain period that it was most often opposed to the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure. Most often, it was not an incorrect allegation, but it was correcting the political stance, belief, opinion, assessment and it was directly contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. So, the highest document that regulates the work of the highest body. And what is now and, of course, then has gone into endless debates about what actually happened. The only option for that representative whose incorrect allegations were allegedly corrected, and in fact his political position was corrected, the belief, was to raise the breach of the Rules of Procedure. And then, of course, the chairman would, because after that violation of the Rules of Procedure, the representative who corrected the incorrect allegations, and in fact, he polymized the same thing could require a breach of the Rules of Procedure. These are two institutes that were without restrictions in the Croatian Parliament and this debate is, in fact, a loss of quality of communication and it is an explicit violation of a high regulation of this country, that is, this Parliament. Because of this abuse, not because this institute itself might not be good because of this going to these amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure. Otherwise, I've looked at a few solutions in a dozen parliaments of the countries of Europe and it just seems to me in one case you have the correction of an incorrect allegation as a strict possibility of correcting an incorrect allegation. It is likely that the solutions adopted in these countries are the fruits of similar deformities, i.e. the abuse of that, and then because of the possibility of interpreting what is actually an incorrect quote, then they usually go to replications and replicas, in which there is no interpretation by the chairman, in fact the most common form of correcting the incorrect quote, i.e. the presentation of their views, which evaluate the views of the one who spoke before you. And that situation in that sense is much cleaner. Personally, I don't think it would be too bad if we had this institute of incorrect allegations, that we knew and could use it properly. Since we have turned this into a constant violation of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, then I think this is a good solution that we are now introducing. It allows communication, but allows one whose political position is corrected to say what his political position is. And I'm sure that this replicaable communication, the replica, is going to expand. A more intense interpretation of the replica is actually going to be a substitute for an incorrect quote. In that sense, colleagues who say they can't make up for something, replace it with something that already exists. In that sense they're formally right, formally-legal right. But the more intense interpretation and use of the replica will actually lead to, will replace the incorrect assumption, and I am sure that because there will be freedom of communication, freedom of political assessment that the president will not be able to intervene in whether someone has corrected the incorrect assumption that the debate in this House will also be richer and more useful and argumentative. For he who gives the replica knows that after this he follows the evaluation of his views, and this should raise the quality of the debate. That's why I think these assessments are about reducing the ability of representatives to speak, and even about the suspension of democracy are absolutely exaggerated. So everyone has the possibility of replicating, everyone has the possibility of speaking in the Croatian Parliament. Any representative can contact you. In the Croatian Parliament, there is no restriction on MPs' speech towards parliamentary representatives of individual parties, which is almost the usual practice in parliaments, in Europe. So you can talk, and that is, of course, one way of planning a session as much as a single club has its own representatives. So he's given a minute. It's not like that in the Croatian Parliament. But I suppose at some point, some years ahead of us, with the aim of planning meetings of the Croatian Parliament, we will probably have to approach that solution as well. If this is welcomed by a knife as a suspension of democracy, then I don't know what will happen when such a thing is done, so a common institute will also be introduced into the work of the Croatian Parliament in order to better plan its work. A similar situation with the correction of an incorrect quote is the violation of the Rules of Procedure. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was once again the belief of someone that the Rules of Procedure had been hurt that often it had nothing to do with what actually happened. So it wasn't about hurting the Rules of Procedure. There was no respect for the president's interpretation. And there is an important institution of the Croatian Parliament, which is that the president has the right to say, give his explanation. That wasn't used either. Re-emergences to the Rules of Procedure without any sanctions were re-emerged whether what was said was a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and it was not so often that, rarely, it was also the policy of a position that no one could ever answer through the breach of the Rules of Procedure. So I believe that the introduction of order in these two institutes that gave great freedom to MPs and who were largely irresponsiblely used independently of what they were called for, that this is actually one step forward that enables communication and that will likely lead to the quality of political communication and clarity, and also brittleness, the arguments of attitudes that will be delivered in this House. That I am not actually saying that there is a solution to the parliamentary opposition to give a replica to the presentation of representatives of the ruling clubs, but that is within parliamentary communication but also the consequences of the exposure of the government's representatives without the restrictions of the chairman who will then assess whether it is an correction of the incorrect allegations, because that instrument has only existed so far. There is now a stronger criticism of the evaluation of the work of the Government's representatives, and this is, in fact, one of the fundamental meanings of the Croatian Parliament, that is, to enable replication and communication with the members of the Government, and this is now a solution that allows and, of course, it will have to be used responsibly because, of course, after that replica, there is the possibility of more frequent replication by the members of the Government, but also raising the quality of communication is certainly one of the logical objectives of these amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure. When it comes to electronic registration of MPs, it is certain that such a mechanism, such an instrument will not necessarily raise the quality of the work of the Croatian Parliament, but the seat of representatives in the Croatian Parliament should be the most important job of anyone who is a representative. And of course there will probably be some kind of manipulation, etc., of course, the possibility of publishing these data, but let the public see, and then, through this publication, of course, our books in which we have signed up have not allowed this kind of publication, you will be able to see what is the presence of representatives at the meetings of the Croatian Parliament, and then, of course, with some false interpretations that are not possible to avoid, but you will also be able to see some difficulties, some deformities in the presence of representatives, and too often the absence and absence at the meetings of the Croatian Parliament is not something that makes sense either with the basic task, the duty of representatives, and of course, nor with the contribution of the representatives who are to be given in the work of the Croatian Assembly. Personally, I believe that what my colleague Mlakar was saying, at least on behalf of the club, is not a bad solution. In my opinion, it should be known exactly how much an agent is, even if it does not guarantee his contribution, or his quality, actually register and leave the meeting of the Croatian Parliament to know what presence is. So let the information the public needs to know, the public needs to know, through some lengthy public debate, through various deformities and media abuses of this information we finally get to some quality that we should certainly have in the work of representatives of the Croatian Parliament. This Rules of Procedure does not treat some of the topics that I believe should be treated in some kind of direct possibility. Is the opportunity to amend the Rules of Procedure to regulate the relations between the Government and the Parliament in monitoring European affairs and to create conditions for the greater supervisory role of the Croatian Parliament whether this will be an opportunity, but let's just say here it is not said that some mechanisms should be introduced more frequently by Parliament and the executive authorities. Like, for example, I will list only some solutions, following a debate on a law or set of laws, followed by some sort of representative clock in which an hour in a wider area of work of a resistor is questioned by the work of that minister and the resolution. We don't have that mechanism, we only have mornings and very rarely. It's one of the options. And another possibility that most parliament has, and we do not have, is the long-term work plan of the Croatian Parliament so that it can be known when, how long a session is held, when it will end, when a point will be on the agenda, there are no permanent updates of the agenda. Most parliaments in developed parliamentary democracies have those solutions, we don't have them. But I hope that if not on this occasion that we are given first, we will go to those solutions. It is good that the representative can know when the agenda item he is interested in for two weeks in advance or exactly the day, the hour ahead of the next day or that week will know when this item is on the agenda so that he can talk about it, prepare and plan his time and his activities for all other activities that parliamentary representatives have. These are the things we have yet to wait for. I hope we're almost there, too, that it won't be too long, but that's all the things that are very important and we don't have much to make up. There are 5, 6, 7 or 10 instruments, mechanisms, institutes of developmental parliaments. We can take those who are the most common or who are closer to us for these or those reasons and thus certainly improve the work of the Croatian Parliament. But we'll see what happens. In any case, I believe that these changes made by this Decision on amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure are useful, that they will raise the quality of the work of the Croatian Parliament and, of course, the Club of Representatives of the HNS will support this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12522	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU Silvano Hrelja. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12523	Dear Mr. Vice President and the other vice president as a proposing, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. My colleagues and colleagues first to refer to Article 5 of the amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which says something about confirming the arrival of the Croatian Assembly with a representative card. I've been here nine years, and I've been signing up for nine years in the Book of Attending, and it's possible that I've forgotten some time, but I don't see any big reason, and I don't see what's proven by it, and I don't see the same thing that's going to prove to this. Surely it won't prove the value of one representative, the value of the work of that representative, but it's pure form that works whether it's a paper signature or an e-booked record I don't see any big differences, I don't see any purpose and meaning. We must understand that we have parliamentary democracy. That this parliamentary democracy rests on the work of parliamentary parties and that our work definitely does not begin and ends only in the Croatian Parliament. This is the most important part of our work, but there are obligations to the party, there are obligations to the citizens, there are obligations beyond this house, and we have to get around. This is much easier for one party who has 30, 40, 50, 60 deputies, and it is very difficult for one party who has 2, 3, 5 deputies, and around the requirements and criteria for all these parties are the same by the public. Nobody says they're smaller, they don't arrive, they all have to be there everywhere. So I don't see any big papers in that article and we're gonna get something. Look, if someone wanted to take an interest and prove their value and their activity, they could send ten parliamentary questions to the government every week and the government would only deal with it. And then what did we get? I think the answers to the questions we'll get, the MP has a very large activity, results possibly something possible nothing. What we will certainly do, and what we in Croatia, the foreigners of the pensioners, will not safely pull their hairs because of the removal of the institute of incorrect, correcting the incorrect allegations, but we have never had anything against it before. At least I know that in 90% of the cases I used it correctly, and everyone knew when I didn't use it exactly, starting with the chairman who could read it immediately, when the intentional abuse of the institute of correcting the incorrect allegations. The indisputable fact is that the replica institute contains an automatic and correcting of what is incorrect and certainly in that part, democratic standards will not be reduced. What we really fear at the HSU club is that in the event of the proposings being presented here, there are 20 replicas. And now this proposer is going to respond to these 20 replicas, and there can be harder words, and there can be polemics, and I'm not sure that's going to be great. Here the chairman could always block, you have violated the statute, or Rules of Procedure, this is not allowed. I think there's going to be a lot of things in the controversy. Well, the living have seen it. We have certainly studied these changes and additions, perhaps they will act on some of the illogical amendments we have given, at least some. Some are certainly justified, for some you can say that it is not time for us to change the part-time work of the board, but we have used this time when it is changing, and these articles of the Rules of Procedure have been touched, to change them. As for our first amendment, he's tied to employment, he's motivated only, where he writes employment for a certain time to erase it, he's motivated by another fact. The HSU club never hired anyone and brought anyone aside to be loyal to him at the club. So we took those people who were here indefinitely employed and used in terms of, working at the club and as secretary of the club and administrative secretary. So we're having these problems that we have to have the person we brought in from the outside we don't have. And we think that we should send a message to all of them that we do not hire for a certain time, such as practice, but that we hire for an indefinite period of time. At least while the mandate lasts, so we don't put people in second-rates, who can't raise credit, and of course they do, they get paid, and everything else. As for Article 75, we wanted to take immediate advantage of the opportunity to sort out the work of the Committee on Labour, the pension system and the social partnership, as it should now be called in the future. We've made this very precise, and we've seen that we're not overlapping with other committees, because, with new committees, there's been a overlap in the work cycle. And we were very careful. You can look at the reasons why we are doing this in the amendment to Article 21, that is, in the original article 75. And we did it in a way that this definitely can't lead to overlapping or confusion. Of course we welcome the idea that all committees have external members, but I think we must do the same with a sense of measure. As first instead of 6 we propose a slight reduction to 4 members, here in our Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership, and we think that is enough, especially because the other committees will get that opportunity. And we think that we are better off having one representative of the multi-level union and one from the representatives of the Croatian Employers' Association and two representatives from the ranks of scientific institutions dealing with labour law and pension insurance issues. I believe that, like the chairman of the board, it would contribute more than just having some ordinary representativeness to contribute to the quality of the committee's work. Of course, in Article 77, that is, the amendment to Article 25 speaks of eradicating itself from, just a moment in time, in order to delete from the work of the Committee on the Family, Youth and Sports the item that it is concerned with the protection of women at work. I don't think that's necessary, because protection at work is a universal issue, which is not subject to gender differences, so if it deals with it, completely, integrally, if it deals with the protection of work of the Labour Committee, the pension system and the social partnership, then it doesn't need to be doubled. And what's originally our idea, I ask you once again to think about this idea, is not accepted in the first reading of the knife, but it's not, or it's not experienced on the knife, but it's not accepted. We suggest that all speakers speak from this place, this is the place they're talking to. So, whether we have a debate on behalf of the club, whether we have an individual discussion, whether we have a final five minutes here is standing and talking, and it's replicated from the scene. With that move, so today we don't have that obstacle, we all know when we're up, we can get ready, we can get closer, there's no waste of time. The one that replicates our exposure from this position says the same thing right now, and we look into each other's eyes. So we have direct communication within the eye and ear, we don't have to look back at anyone, and so we have one honest, open communication looking into the eyes, and better than that, there's just no communication. Of course, the Croatian Parliament is at will. We think it would be okay, it was seen in other parliaments. My colleague Radjenovic and I were recently in Denmark, even the chairman there does not sit behind the speaker, the speaker is on the side so there is no one from behind. It's some, some of these kind of delicacies, some of these moves that a lot, maybe a little bit like this in at first sight, and maybe they talk a lot or give a lot to the safety of speakers. I don't mind who's behind me anymore, especially my dear colleague, I believe that those who first come for this pay phone that their feelings aren't that simple. So here in good faith, with respect even part of the opinion of the opposition that may be justified but at least they are honestly justified, I think life will show the best whether we have done well by this or practice will either confirm us or deny whether we have changed our Rules of Procedure well. And that's not a very small question. How we will depend on the quality of our communication on the quality of our conduct depends on our rating among citizens. If we are tolerant if we are well-intentioned, then it is quite one of the experience characteristics of the Croatian Parliament, if we are just arguing, then they will say that we are wasting our time and, for God's sake, their trust. Therefore, in good faith that this project will be supported by these changes, the amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12524	Thank you, too. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first one is Josip Djakic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12525	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So here we have come to the conclusion that even this minute of time that has been made possible by the Rules of Procedure in correcting the incorrect allegations and this minute of time that has been laid down in Article 209. Today, by this move that has been made to correct the real situation as we have seen today, we have seen an opportunity to justify that the possibility of representatives of the proposing or his envoys can be answered at any time when he is chaired by that word. The debate today, the clubs ended after each club, the promoter could intervene with his clarifications at a level of 10 minutes. So it doesn't say that it couldn't be intervened after correcting an incorrect quote. When correcting the quote, a proposing representative may come forward to further explain, given that some things were unlikely to be clear. This is certainly a step back in the democratic processes that you want to introduce, not a step forward. This is not a democratisation of communication in the Croatian Parliament but rather a repression of democracy. It's just a replica. Do you think we'll keep our mouths shut as an opposition? Well, we'll all use replicas. You'll have them on every 30, 40 exhibit and so on until you're exhausted, so we'll communicate bilaterally as you say. You think we're gonna keep quiet, you're not gonna put a band-aid on our mouth by taking away the correction of an incorrect quote. and minutes of time that the representative had to intervene on what was incorrectly said. There are more and more inaccuracies that will have to be corrected, more and more what is happening about the proposings and the laws that come absolutely has absolutely no purpose or purpose, and more is that it is precisely intervened by correcting the incorrect allegations when a representative of the Government or the minister or an authorised proponent who comes from the Government is talking about certain things that are certainly demagogue flossules and inaccuracies that need to be corrected. But we will do so in replicas as you have announced in these amendments and additions other than those concerning things that are in the changes in the section of the ministry and nomotechnical matters are not so important except to erase anxiety. No one needs care anymore because I believe you won't care about anyone else but you'll realize otherwise. But what concerns me most is the addition of the Rules of Procedure to Article 30b, the 30th, which significantly violates the laws adopted by this Assembly and regulates the way it is employed in the future. Until now, it has been legal in Article 30, the last paragraph reads "the adviser referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article must meet the conditions in accordance with the law and other regulations". It's gone, today it can be done without a public tender, without a public service ad. Well, that's something you can't imagine. In these two articles, the Proposer explained the harmonisation of the working-legal position of officials in the circles of representatives with the Law on civil servants and substitutors, and the Law on civil servants and tenants was laid down outside the power except for provisions relating to salaries and other material officials, and in full application of the Law on civil servants. However, the provisions of Article 7 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union shall apply. The amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure indicate that it is not a matter of harmonisation with the law but of gross violation and neglect of the provisions of the Law on civil servants and, despite the fact that the amended articles of the Rules of Procedure states that clubs have the right to employ officials and professional services, it is evident that the provision of Article 7. The amendment and addition of the Rules of Procedure mostly refers to persons outside the professional service of the Croatian Parliament who will be employed by clubs. In particular, the Law on civil servants in its Article 47 provides for a procedure for admission into the public service. Article 48 provides for conditions for admission into the state service and Article 49 provides for obstacles to admission to the public service. Article 56 provides for the obligation to pass a state-owned expert examination, and the same article provides for the release of the national expert examination. In view of the new Rule 30b of the Rules of Procedure, it is prescribed that the provision of a law relating to inter alia a state expert examination does not apply to officials who will be employed in the circles of MPs. It is evident that party persons who should be employed in the Croatian Parliament are placed above the law. It should also be pointed out that this provision in cohesion and with the amended paragraph 4 of Article 30, which requires the fulfilment of the conditions laid down by law and the state expert examination is one of the conditions even the most significant condition since the state expert examination is not the reason for the termination of the state service. In this connection, it is not clear on the basis of which the rules of the persons who are entitled to employment are placed in a privileged position in relation to current officials of professional services who have had to pass a state-run professional exam and satisfy many other conditions, are continuously improved in order to be able to do their job, especially considering that the persons employed in clubs have the same material rights as the employees of the Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament, and there are no conditions that these persons should meet to prove their expertise, the ability to work in the Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament. The question arises whether these persons will be screened or hired in the Croatian Parliament by persons against whom court proceedings have been conducted, as has been the practice of this Government so far. These provisions of the Rules of Procedure actually allow for the employment and material care of party counterparts, ruling coalitions, past the law, and the rude discrimination of officials of the professional services of the Croatian Parliament. Furthermore, if persons who are entitled to employment are employed for a given period of time are not clear on which the regulation is based on the provision of Article 3(3) of the new Article 30, which regulates that, at the end of the term of office, they are assigned to the vacancy of the vacancy for which they fulfil the conditions. In view of the end of their term of office, the working relationship set out in Articles 1 and 3 of Articles 30a shall also cease. Namely, this provision applies precisely to persons outside the Professional Service, not to officials of the Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament. The applicant should also be warned that, in accordance with Article 61, paragraph 9, paragraph 9 is replaced by the following: The Civil Service Act cannot, for a certain time, become a state service indefinitely. The organisation of the Republic of Croatia, paragraph 2 of Article 55, provides that every post and duty shall be made available to each under equal conditions. Therefore, this bold advantage to individuals in terms of enabling them to be employed without any professional or other criteria in the highest state institution representing all citizens of the Republic of Croatia is offensive to any conviction. Since the Croatian Parliament is the highest state institution in the Republic of Croatia, the holders of the legislative authority and the representative body of citizens are inadmissible in such a harsh and arbitrary violation of the Constitution and the law, as is the case with the provisions of Article 7 of the amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure, this article should therefore be completely deleted. Given that I am at the end of the debate and this second reading today as is before us, as well as all these amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure except in those matters concerning the formation of state ministries, which is why the working bodies should be brought into line with them, everything else is a demagogue flossula sold to this Croatian people from the ranks of the ruling coalition. Namely, recording through a card is technological progress. What does it mean when there are no sanctions for those who are not in the Croatian Parliament? What does that mean for your Prime Minister and our Prime Minister who hasn't held a debate in this assembly that involved individual debates because his groin probably hurt. What does this mean for all those who are not from the ruling coalition today, and should make that majority in the Croatian Parliament? What does that mean for all of us who have all kinds of obligations? Yeah, technological advances, we'll pull through in the morning's card, and then we'll be on board, and then we'll pull through the card, and then we'll be in the club, and we'll be registered everywhere that we were present. What of it has the Croatian people? The question is, is it the credibility of our work, of our ideas, of our legal proposals that...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12526	Time, colleague Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12527	Which should be tailored to this House. All of this as a demagogue flossula will certainly not be accepted anywhere...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12528	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12529	And the denial of the right of speech and the correction of those inaccuracies that will be experienced in this Croatian Parliament will certainly be clearly explained through replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12530	Thank you very much. We have a replica of your exposure, Miss twilight. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12531	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Djakic, all this stuff you were talking about today, you were talking about responsibility. So the arguments of the current ruling, the proposer of this new Rules of Procedure, are that you will teach us responsibility and that if we adopt that, we will finally start to behave with dignity and responsibility. However, here are fellow Djakic, you have cited several examples, and here are some examples why this Rules of Procedure cannot teach us responsibility. So because we learned responsibilities in our professional work, all of us who worked somewhere, and we know very well that it must come responsibly to our work, that it must be entered as credible as possible, and if I enroll in this book outside with my own hand today, I have looked at 61 MPs sign up. So, 61 MPs are present at the Croatian Parliament today. If we introduce it by electronic means, we can give our representative a card to someone, they'll slip through it, and maybe it'll be 151 MPs. I am not saying that these MPs who are not presently do not do their own responsible work, surely work, are somewhere in the field, but I would like to point out that by adopting this kind of system will not improve to know the records of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. So all of us who work somewhere have a responsibility, we have a responsibility to work, to family and political responsibility, and to those who have given us trust. One more thing, here's fellow Djakic, very nice talk about committees. I would now like to say as a responsible representative as well as one remark on this Rules of Procedure, but otherwise I couldn't give it anywhere, which is our Ministry of Agriculture, where fishing and rural development have been expelled and we have a Committee on Agriculture today, and fishing and rural development are being wiped out. What I'm trying to say is that fishing is...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12532	Thank you. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12533	Here's just one second, if fishing was an important branch of agriculture, if we'd done a lot of work on it and it would have been very good if that committee hadn't changed in its name.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12534	Thank you. We have an answer to your replica. Comrade Josip Djakić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12535	Thank you very much, Vice President. In fact, everything is obvious that what bothers you, and even those words that are both fishing and rural development, are now areas of special state concern, the use of European funds. So you wipe out care as one of the important factors, take care of the old and the powerless, take care of your citizens, it's honorable, it's necessary, it's especially at a distant age. Of course, agriculture is wiped out, there's no more, it's unnecessary, it's quite peasant, which is what the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure will do. But I am interested in explaining to the legal experts our esteemed promoter who says that even so far in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the opportunities for such employment were as they are now. When applying in Article 30b. states that the jobs of the representatives’ clubs at the workplaces of the representatives’ clubs may be admitted to the public service for a certain period of time without the prior implementation of the public tender, i.e. the ad for admission to the public service. And that's what worries me most about everything, that a legal expert allows himself this curious employment in this House of civil servants and subsistences for a certain period of time that will later become, will be assigned to certain jobs for job vacancies that are not available, and then will become a surplus. So, all those who won't have room on the boards, in the clubs, they'll be extra. So there were extra soldiers, extra cops, extra parents of the dead Croatian defenders, extra people with disabilities. All those surpluses that were manufactured, we've seen these surpluses before. We will now see probably in Parliament both in the government and in the ministries. It's all about the pure intention that comes out of this. But he's talking about breaking the law. This is collapsing. The Rules of Procedure cannot determine the reception of the service as it is received and as it is fired. They're...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12536	Time, colleague Djakic. Thank you. Next up for discussion Josip Boric, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12537	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. I will begin my debate by quoting the provisions of the Constitution Article 71. The Croatian Parliament is the representative body of citizens and the holder of the legislative authority in the Republic of Croatia, Article 84. The meetings of the Croatian Parliament are public. Now I'm going to do some stats that I caught down on some posters and say, the fourth session of the 37th session of the Croatian Parliament, the 338 days of the session. The fifth call of 152 MPs, 27 session of the Croatian Parliament, 2230 hours of debate, 23143 announcements for word, 568 passed laws, passed laws, pardon. 4922 amendments and 1732 parliamentary issues. And the sixth call of 153 MPs, 24 sessions of the Croatian Parliament, 332 days of the session, 24895 announcements for the word, 815 passed laws, 3887 amendments and 1665 parliamentary questions. Here, sometimes I say numbers speak more than words, even certain legal proposals. He says here, maybe a little more statistics. There are some 32, 33 of us here if I was able to count well from 151 MPs which apparently tells us that either we are at the wrong time or it's the wrong topic or it's just too hot out there. He says that someone who doesn't hold on to himself shouldn't expect someone to hold on to him. I think this relationship can be true in relation to the Parliament and the executive authorities as well as the Parliament's relationship with the citizens who choose us. And how many citizens are holding us? The last study... and says grade 2.49. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] At school, that passage is enough. There is something more going on, and certainly the President of the Republic of Croatia at the top. Have we ever wondered why that is? Which is why after six months, the new authorities have given us an assessment. The fact is, given this proposal of the Rules of Procedure, I think we are not, because even those who come out of this Parliament, and that is the executive power have a better rating than we do, and everything we do again for them, always to make it better for them, to make it easier for them. Can we expect then what our SDP colleagues have told us is that this is strengthening parliamentaryism, strengthening democratic processes. Here I was, for the first time, a parliamentary representative after eight years of executive power. I was also an assistant minister. I was also a secretary of state and what my experiences were. I came to the Croatian Parliament on the first day. I thought we were going to change this world in some way, but what welcomed me? The Rules of Procedure and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia met me in the box of clubs. I've been looking for space like every MP says get on with it. I tried to figure it out, but she liked me right there, Demetrov, that space in Demeter. I go in there, I ask if there's no Internet. There's no way you can have the Internet. Nothing, I went back to a colleague in their room and I'm trying to do something because there's no Internet. What do I get? We get the material for the session the same day, the day before, two days ago, and as certain legal proposals stand, the fact is that some materials are already standing for a full 180 days here. We can't just get them to discuss it. They'll catch some and a half years. Can we treat the proposals that way? Can we thus improve this democracy of ours? What do our ordinary citizens say about the work of a parliamentary representative, how they perceive it? Probably more or less of that perception we all know. I'll say it here, maybe it's no use to us, but what they say is Parliamentarian is the best job in the country, you don't do anything, you have good pay, and when you're in opposition, you don't have to come. It is the perception of Croatian citizens who are devastating for us here in the Parliament. Do we have the right to ask them then, i.e. to suggest or answer their question when they tell us and what we pay you at all. That's the question that should have been answered through this Rules of Procedure. What have we had in practice these few months? Already in the first or second session, I think we happened to have a function, the executive function of the ministerial assistant equalized in the pay grade with Parliament's 5.27 coefficient. I remember my time. We've had 4.27 or something less. I remember my presentations as an executive at some gatherings. That's when the parliamentary deputies told me you're political figures, appointed political figures. We are chosen by the people. We're the ones who have to invite you in. And what have we done now? We have raised these politically appointed people, given them more importance than ourselves, and we expect someone to respect us and respect us. Who sits down on us and explains the laws? Deputys, ministerial assistants. Ministers very rarely if the topic is good that in public they can catch what point. We also heard stories about privileged pensions as a pre-election promise lifted, I agree. What did we do? There are parliamentary deputies who will have a privileged parliamentary pension and all of this and beyond who will not have it. Great! Great! What else did we get? We have these three monitors, which I only see as some kind of progress, we can know when we're up, so we don't have to wait for them to call us, and we're not in the hall by chance. We vote hand-lifting, hand-lifting. You listened to this trust of the people in the government, etc. We have Mr. Maric here, he's the man who has the highest trust of this people, 100%. He's got 30 seconds to tell who's in favor, who's abstention and who's against it. In a hall where someone goes out all the time, goes in, etc. And so the laws are passed on Friday mornings. And it's a very, very responsible function. We said that the Parliament... When do we have transmissions? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] From 9.30 to 12.00 or to 13.00. And what do we notice then? There's a large number of councilmen in our assembly here. Is that a solution, perhaps? We've got that try to get rid of it, we've got congregation TV. But it costs 140 kuna, gentlemen. The Internet and Max TV. 140 kuna and watch the Parliament from morning to evening. Can we deny, I say, the citizens the right to listen and watch? To watch us fight for their interests. We do this regularly, but that is why we have recently broken down here at a debate on HRT which will be the head of HRT, and that we cannot ensure for ourselves that we have a transfer on some third channel does not matter as Italy has, as some other EU countries do. Why are we taking it for ourselves? What are we afraid of? Is it your own people? I'm asking a question. And what do we find to be a solution? Electronic records and replicas. We heard all about the electronic records. Completely missed and inapplicable, especially for MPs who come from the side. It is easy to be in Zagreb, I say, and to come from Zagreb here with a crouched card and go, etc., but when we come from the side, which we travel and a few hundred kilometers, it is not easy for us to be in the Croatian Parliament on Monday and Tuesday if you have nothing to do. There are no parliamentary boards, no materials, which you will be doing in this Croatian Assembly, no internet, nothing where you are located. I ask the question what am I going to do? These are the answers to which questions should be given. And the question of replica is, for me, what's before chicken or egg? Is the legislative authority more important or executive? Because we will now have the word executive, then the word legislative, but in the end, the truth will always be the obvious word of executive power. Can we think about it that way? Then will we be surprised when we are finally satisfied with the score of 1.57, 1.23 and before the end of the term? 1.0. I think that this is exactly what the Rules of Procedure should answer to both the public work and the procedures, but also the relationship between this House as the Supreme Legislative Body and the one that needs to monitor everything and the government and the ministers and everything else, and reject something if we don't like it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12538	Thank you, too. We have three replicas on your exhibit. The first one came forward by Gyurjitsumrak. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12539	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's my colleague, Boris, I was very careful to listen to you, and I'm glad that all this data in reality has been told by this evaluation of Parliament's work, and again I want to say that this way, by changing and changing the Rules of Procedure, we will not increase the rating for our work in the Assembly as parliamentary representatives, but we can only be responsible for our participation in the work of the session. Well, here's your colleague. You said the subject isn't interesting. It's afternoon. Corrections to incorrect allegations will be resolved and, of course, they have no need to discuss it today. They don't have a need, none of the colleagues in the position applied for a hearing. Of course, because they know you can say whatever you want, we'll do whatever we want, and they can do it, and they can do it. But it's on the cheek of anyone who does so and there's nothing to say. You also said that political appointments were made, so yes, that's the only thing they did at the beginning of the Parliament. That's why we came here. The first session was exactly the one. And for six months now, we have been assured by our colleagues here that this Rules of Procedure will restore the dignity of the parliamentary deputies because I can no longer repay this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12540	Thank you. Next replica Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go, buddy. And I'm sorry, reply to the replica. Excuse my colleague Vuljanić, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12541	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12542	I mean, it's kind of weird inside the club, so here, but I'll get used to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12543	So we need to talk inside the club because there's no one on the other side. Well, here's a colleague of the twilight, she made it very clear what I'm saying. The fact is that the parliamentary majority about this perhaps for us the most important document, I do not know which is even more important than this for the work of the Croatian Parliament, which is the Rules of Procedure, that they have nothing to say. So we respect absolute knowledge, absolute power of individuals. I don't think that's the task given to us by Croatian voters, and it's just us who have to influence this assessment that's unfavourable, and it's going to get worse every day if we bring this document in a bad way. That is why it is an appeal to the ruling majority to get involved in the debate, especially now in the last week we have 20 new laws each of which is almost for the whole day's debate. Ideological and secular issues and certain life issues of people are being resolved. It's a debate, and if we can't have a 5-day working week the way we've had it so far, it means we're discussing Wednesday, Thursday and Friday, let's say all day Wednesday, Thursday, and then we split it up for 5 days, so we're doing 9:30 to 13, 14 I don't know what those Assembly sessions are for at 1, 2 a.m. so people can't believe that we can survive so much in terms of survival in this House. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12544	Thank you, too. Here's the esteemed Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12545	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. It seems to me that one of the key topics to which this Assembly should be dealt more often, more and more honestly. Why grade enough? Well, because we're enough. When was the last time you saw a party in power not voting for the government's proposal? Or vote for the opposition proposal? I was in this House when HDZ was in power and now the SDP is in power. It never happened once. Not on any of those sides. As robots, they raise their hands, lower their hands, and people look at it, and they know what's going on. They know what's behind it, they know the boss of the party and party discipline is behind it. How many times have you been told in the hallway by one of your colleagues so that's really good and smart, go in there and vote against. And on this side and on this side, the same thing happened to me, the same thing. Perhaps it is not polite to say, perhaps it is against some canons as they speak in Parliament, but that is. That's true. That's the kind of behavior the people estimate with grade 2, we've done well, we've done well. That objective grade is hard to be 2. Under the Constitution, therefore, this Parliament controls the government, if we control the government, so the Government controls Parliament in all moves, even in this Rules of Procedure regarding the work of the Parliament, the Government controls and the Government imposes solutions. And everyone will raise their hands the way the government says. It's a farce from parliamentaryism, and that's why the evaluation is sufficient. What is done in the changes of the Rules of Procedure will not change anything, of course. Where it comes from, it comes from the way the MPs choose.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12546	Thank you. The next replica of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12547	Dear fellow Buric, you mentioned a television broadcast. On at least six occasions, it was a serious debate at Parliament's presidency meetings, as television threatened to completely shut down television broadcasts, public television. The law was passed on Friday, no public television obligations extended. And this one about the public works according to Article 254: "Opening the Parliament.", internet transmission. It's all the moves we've been making out of hard trouble. But I agree with you, the description of the situation in the Parliament that you gave is incredibly accurate since 2003. And when you were in power, everything was the same and today it's the same. I had an office in Demeter, too, in the attic. It's just a shame that Parliamentarians don't have their jobs outside this hall, but nothing new, they keep going. And something that's terrible, says we have to make it possible for the rulings, you heard them impose their agenda, because that's what the voters promised, and for the opposition electoral bodies. The opposition has not promised voters anything and it has no right to put it as an agenda in the Parliament. On the 10 ruling comes a single opposition proposal and imagine that 1 to 10 of their own, and it gets so nervous and bothers them that it should also be disabled, that the debate ever opens, because they have their own agenda, they have their own voters, they have promised their voters something. We don't have our own electoral body, we don't care. And then our subjects, when they come to the agenda, put in the late afternoon, late in the evening, that no one ever knows that's what the debate was about.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12548	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Josip Boric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12549	Well, I agree more or less with everything that my colleague Lesar said. And the fact is that even today's consolidated agenda, it's constantly pushing some points to the end of the agenda, and it's only the right, not the President of the Parliament or the Presidency, but we can't get the points we're preparing for and we've got a commitment for them to prepare ourselves to keep those notes for three years. So, we must, when we have received material from the Government of the Republic of Croatia and to discuss it in this House, then it would be correct to discuss it within an appropriate time and that we parliamentary representatives say what we think. So this is how you can get, let's say, some report by the public procurement control committee, and now it's going to last from 2011, somewhere we're going to discuss it at the end of 2013. I think it's inconclusive and I have to break that story and deal with it the way it's coming. We can't get new reports, and then they're the ones that were behind the ones that were before. It's simply not good, and I think the Parliament is losing one part of its credibility and what it should be, and that's the democratic voice of the people. There. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12550	Thank you. Next up for the Sun Head debate. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12551	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So the abolition of the Institute of Inaccuracy will certainly not restore the dignity of us MPs in the Croatian Parliament, that is absolutely certain. And I'm going to say that for those of you who were here in the last session that he was irrevocably disrupted and the level of communication in the Parliament in the last session. The current Minister of Science is the founder of the famous chicken, so I think he said all about himself and the level of communication in the Croatian Parliament. I'd say this is very hypocritical... So, fellow Lesar, to hear you, I hear you. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I would say it is very hypocritical, which is now happening and is contained in the formulation of fellow Jelusic. I don't think he's here anymore who said he's being abolished, and it's really not being abolished, so it's like that, we could say, "If we had to ease the layoffs, to make it easier, or, for example, we have to raise taxes, so we can cut them down." That's his statement, it's exactly the same as these two findings. So if we wanted to make fun of something, then we'd call it that word. Everywhere in the world people are calling for democracy, we often use that word here in the assembly. But what is really with those who feel this democracy every day, which is actually with Croatian citizens who, if they look at this right now, are wondering what they're actually discussing. Is the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament something that will make it easier for them to pay for electricity, water bills or gasoline, which, today, collects 5 to 6 limes again. They ask if this is the most important thing that can be discussed in the Croatian Parliament right now, and what our representatives, whom we have chosen to speak on our behalf, can be said today. We are dealing with whether another trick can be done in the Rules of Procedure and we are offered very thin explanations. I think that, in some ways, it's something deep down inside of them that the promoters also recognize. Because we are aware of this, were here a book for writing which we are now using or whether it is an electronic record it is no guarantee that one of us will work better or better, or that he will at all work, that he will speak at all, and that is what MPs must talk about the laws that come to the Croatian Parliament, of course, as much as possible in that politically correct overwiseness. How many MPs are in the assembly today? Well, here's fellow Lucic here, he's not here right now, but surely some of our colleagues who aren't there, they're the mayors, the mayors, and they didn't sign up for this book today. What's it gonna take? Bring the apology. How will he have to justify himself to someone? They can answer for their inability to say it only to their voters, but they also have a responsibility to be in their place of work in the city or in the municipality. What will the members of the county congregation do? Asking for an apology from the president of the assembly when, for example, there's a assembly in my Međimurje County on Thursdays and if I want to work responsibly, then I'm going to go there and that Thursday I won't be here and they're going to ask the citizens where the other MPs are? How many of us are here today? Who are they paying? Those are the questions they ask. We deal with the Rules of Procedure and do some things that will not solve their existence in any way. By the time we touched the Rules of Procedure, then he had a chance to solve other things, such as the length of those legal proposals that could not come to the agenda, or if you really want to do with the maneuvers of the current morning, perhaps it could also be arranged with the rules of procedure. Instead, what is going on here is also what is sure to be glad to hear especially for all those who unfortunately cannot find a job, which is that other than the public competition in the Croatian Parliament can hire people. And of course what will people say? They are politically similar, they are those who have a political background, which are in political parties, so they will be able to get a job, and we who are not we still have to be at the Employment Service and be there in that record unfortunately increasing number of unemployed. I am not against the promotion of work in the Croatian Parliament but not by abolishing one institute and no change on paper whatever it is we call it, however nice it is, it will not send the message of new democratic standards to the Croatian Parliament or change the image of our behaviour or raise the dignity of the parliamentary representatives. We can do it ourselves or we should do it on our own regardless of whether it's an inaccuracy institute or whether it's a replica. In a communication that would be appropriate that would not be at the level of insult, at the level of the incident, and then not only would incident situations get a minute in our information shows, in our journals, not just consignments, files, etc. finished in the media and thus destroyed the picture of what is done in the Croatian Parliament and here there are quality debates there are people who do their job well, who want to do it consciously and consciously but unfortunately that will not change with such a proposal. Correct political communication is something you can or can't do and it's on each of us. It is the same as whether you are well raised in your family or not. If we go from family to family, then many should ask themselves, or their parents, where did we go wrong and some obviously did? He said before and his colleague Tudjman here's democracy certainly isn't a state that can be reached once. I agree with my colleague, Tudjman, with you. It represents a permanent task. But not by imposing no denial, because unfortunately this presence at the sittings is not a guarantee of work and responsibility that will continue to depend on us. The public gives us a passing grade. We are also faced with this, we need to accept it, however, another fact of how much this work in the Croatian Parliament or its perception in the public has helped us to have the age structure of legislators between 51 and 60 years and that our young people with full respect of course to colleagues in this age group, that our young people are not at all interested in politics, that our young politicians are not interested, but they probably do not care about politics as they get through our media, such political communication as we do from the Croatian Parliament. In the end, I don't really know what's changing. Nothing but replication and record is arranged, and it is clear to the MPs that the latter will be at the end of the government's or government's representative, that the introduction of the replica will completely turn what it was meant to be, not the Government over the Parliament, but the Parliament as a correction of the Government, and I don't think it's good at all. It is likely that this will be passed certainly, given that some laws have not yet passed, for example, the Law on Sports, which will become the Law on Sports, which is already in Article 25. It's supposed to change that, too. So no matter what they tell me here or don't tell me how much political competition they have or don't compete with their colleagues on this side of the assembly, they'll raise their hand for these proposals. We'll see if it improves our political communication and whether it will improve the picture a little in public, but I'm just saying with something you put on paper it just can't be done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12552	Thank you, too. We have a replica of your exposure. Miss twilight. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12553	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So here's a colleague you see just before Mr. Vice President wonders why I'm raising our replicas from the club. Well, that's all we have left to talk about. I can't, of course, lift anyone's replica from position because they don't have an argument. But here's a colleague they'll do after this Rules of Procedure, they've already done, they've changed the HRT Act, they'll have their director, they'll have their editors, so this Rules of Procedure isn't so much needed anymore. In fact, only those MPs who will glorify the government will be shown, so all those who will speak differently or disagree will either be late afternoon or evening at 9 p.m., and these others will be neatly on the morning shows. And how important this is at all today and this Rules of Procedure, and what is still waiting for us after this Rules of Procedure this afternoon, I think are very important laws waiting for us to talk about them in the morning, which is the proposal of the Financial Business Act, and concessions, and executive laws, and so on, I think that's what Croatian citizens are interested in. However, we will probably have colleagues by one 10, 11 hours tonight, as we were here the other night, the truth of all of us twenty, but the second day in the morning was in the media that there was no one or five representatives who came to the Croatian Parliament. It's unfortunate all together, but here's the HRT Act they can do without the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12554	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Sunhead. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12555	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. HRT, HRT, we'll see which faces and who will be the new stars on HRT, but I absolutely want to tell you something. So long as politicians don't stop being "stars" in our media, so long as politicians don't stop filling the first, second and third pages of the daily newspaper, so long they won't be able to take politics seriously. I want it to change as soon as possible that in some more advanced democracies I will dare say of ours, which is that politicians do their job as well as any official and he doesn't have to be on the cover. Of course, I'm not sure that we're going to reach that level so quickly because if it's HRT and so are some other media, I think politics is very dictating the pace, and that's why politicians want to be present in the media anyway, which I think is completely wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12556	Thank you, too. Namely, I owe one clarification to my colleague twilight. Mr. Djakic hasn't even started talking yet, and you've already raised your line, and now I thought you might be a predecessor, that you're too late, so I asked for clarification. Thank you. We have next to discuss Vice President Zeljko Reiner. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. Ilija Filipović, he's gone And there you are, excuse me. [[Intruder Filipović: I am here.]] Here's my colleague Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12557	Nothing, nothing. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12558	A colleague, Shima Djurdjevic, took cover, so I didn't notice when you got up. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12559	Thank you very much for your word. My colleagues and fellow MPs. I will briefly refer to this Rules of Procedure which, however different from other Rules of Procedure, are so many rules of procedure, mainly legislative procedures and others that we must regulate in this most important fundamental act of one Parliament, so the Croatian Parliament, they are here somewhere. I think the great truth was told by his colleague Vuljanic when he pulled a parallel between the current opposition and the current governing structure which was an opposition earlier and the government's relationship and voting on laws and legal proposals in this Assembly when they were ours and conditionally speaking, so now yours and our government have proposed certain solutions to the Croatian Parliament. I will not experience, and I believe no one here that the government of the parliamentary majority proposes some law, that this parliamentary majority does not accept the amendment committee where the majority of these committees are precisely these parliamentary majority or even refuse on the board or God forbid that this happens to us in the Croatian Parliament some legal solutions to which the opposition will point very qualified, very high-quality, therefore logically and say it is not good, there are better solutions. Your professional service has not set up a legal solution properly. But we will not experience it, we are still in this party's path to the point of not thinking, so I speak in principle, I speak for myself, I think of myself first of all, I do not object to anyone, so we like to respect the party's discipline but to oppose some wrong solution, and that is a pity for the democratic processes that we are developing in the Croatian Parliament because tomorrow we are also a member of a large European family by entering the European Union. We are now discussing this fundamental act that interests us, so all of us because we are living these procedures from this Rules of Procedure and this thing and this story of all happiness so no transmission, the public doesn't follow this, so I guess we don't have direct television transmission. That's not interested at all, that's what Col. Mlakar said as a introduction on behalf of the club, that thing is not at all interested in the public because it can only be counterproductive because the barbecue debate here in the Rules of Procedure assembly and some provisions will simply trigger new problems for parliamentarians who are taking care of themselves, and so many problems this country has. And that's why my colleague Vuljanic is like a great european, because he has to be there tomorrow as a representative in the European Parliament, if he has to be, to advocate general interests and therefore he cannot be there as an advocate of only the interests of the country from which he comes. If we have such relations in other parliaments, this may mean one step in the democratic processes of other parliaments, a step that will also mean the development of democratic relations in Europe. We have also heard from the presidents of the parent committee and vice president of the Parliament, the esteemed colleague of Lek, in which he touches certain articles, certain provisions, certain norms of this Rules of Procedure, and are nothing special, are not so significant. This Rules of Procedure, which we now have, is essentially digestible, so it is good, time-seeking, new relations and new steps, so Croatia is also looking for what the Government and this Assembly have done, which have changed certain legal projects, so they are asking to adapt and the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and that is quite logical. The most debate and the most bile among us, mainly in the opposition, have produced provisions in this third group when it comes to practical terms, is because of the abuse of the right of frequent use of the correction of the incorrect allegations and infringements of the Rules of Procedure, because here in our perception, therefore, there has been created one nuance towards this change because, we say, it is the abolition of the right to freedom of word, the freedom of thought to say and correct the incorrect assumption. Very often we have an inaccuracies through our discussions, perhaps that someone is ringing something incorrect and I'm saying, and it's quite logical that someone reacts. Besides, it's this Parliament, that's where we're talking, we're facing our views, etc. But in an indirect way and the breach of the Rules of Procedure is practically removed, one step is being taken away because the practical move is to respond to the breach of the Rules of Procedure to the Committee of Mr. Lek where it is now to wait, that time is passing and becomes a little unnecessary waiting week, seven, eight days, I don't know how long it will take until the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system has met and considered something that someone has interpreted as a breach of the Rules of Procedure. And finally, this fourth group is on hold, we wait for this law, and I am very interested in seeing what it will look like, what it will be, what it will look like, what it will look like, and what it will be offered to us to regulate the relations of the Government, that is, the Croatian Parliament and the Government when we know what these relations are like today. I do not think, therefore, he is now referring to the relationship with, he will regulate on issues related to the European Union, which should be adapted in practical and parliamentary committees in their respective capacity, in their competences, in relation to what awaits us, to the needs of European Union membership. But I want to know exactly how it's going to be set up. As far as I can see, these amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament touch 54 articles and some changes are, therefore, very, very significant and I will touch this amendment to the article of the fifth speaking. At least I thought that after the board the other day for the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure would at least be redefined if this Article 5 was not removed. However, he remained as such intact and I think it also, therefore calling out in us a little discomfort because someone has already used that word trying to discipline a parliamentary representative here in a different way that I have not met. I've been to many parliaments. There is almost no Parliament in the European Union and in this one where I have not been. So I have not met anywhere to record the entry and exit of a parliamentary representative in this way. There is no such thing in the Council of Europe, there is no such thing in the European Parliament, there is no such thing as us in the environment here either. It's not even on other continents. You know, it is. It is not a run from new technologies, but it is something that makes us questionable about the representatives of the Croatian Parliament who has their responsibility and it is aimed at the public, it is directed towards the electoral body that chose us and the electoral unit where we were elected. So that, therefore, is an integral part of both morals and ethics and the work of each of us individually. And because of that, it feels a little bit. I also said that on the board that it was an attempt, a form of discipline by the parliamentary majority, which is not good. So, here's if it's wrong for my perception you correct me, convince me that it's not like that, but it's obvious that almost all of us in opposition in the same way, the exact same way we're thinking about it, and we don't think that that's going to change anything. You see, if you want to have a full assembly, we have here today a third of the MPs sitting in the benches. Then we need to make a deeper cut and make fundamental changes, profound changes to the concept of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, so that we can discuss the Rules of Procedure. The bell will ring, please gentlemen enter the assembly and we will declare the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which would bind us to any act that has been held in the debate, chairing the debate, let's make a statement about it. It would bind us all days. I'm running out of time. Now I'm just gonna Let me just say one more thing. [[/Invader Batinić: Time is up. Here, bring the end.]] So, I must say, I only express my dissatisfaction that on Friday I and all of us received so double the amount of acts. So over 20 new points are included. Many of those points, then, on the moment the Parliament found it as a complement to the agenda did not pass the committees, the constituency bodies. It's very bad and it's a bad example. That's how we marginalize the board's work.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12560	Thank you, fellow Filipovic. Here's a chance through the replica. Thank you. Three replicas have been reported for your presentation. The first one was Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12561	Thank you, Mr. President. Kola Filipovic said we probably won't live to see it or some of us won't experience MPs voting past party instructions, decisions, etc. That's probably true, but what's the reason for that? If we had another Electoral Law to elect MPs, each MP had his own constituency in which he was elected, if he had directly responded to the voters, then the vote of the MPs at individual points would be whether the party was in power or not, or whether the primary responsibility of the MPs would be according to its electoral body. And in that case relations and within parties, between parties would be quite different. Therefore, it is something that we should probably keep in mind and see what this would bring in general for the development of democracy and stability of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12562	Thank you. You didn't report a replica. It's okay. We have the next replica of Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12563	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Tudjman took my discussion from the last line. The basic vision is the way to choose a representative. The MPs are responsible for party bosses. Why? Well, because the party bosses put them in charge, the lists, and that's how they get into the Parliament, so they're responsible for whoever brought them here. It doesn't matter how many people voted for him. No one voted for him personally. In the great parties of Gregor, put the black sheep first, it will pass. Gregor will appear here in Parliament and we all know it, we all know it. We can play crazy, but that's the truth. Then when, and we have proposed such a proposal, such an Electoral Law a few years ago when parliamentary deputies will be elected in their election units by their name and last name with open lists then they will be responsible for those who voted for them. Until then, nothing. And that's why it's a shame that our colleagues don't watch us on TV right now, to see the citizens talk about themselves and their work and that the government doesn't have anything to say about it, the party in power. I sincerely hoped that 8 years of opposition would teach people to behave differently. When Prime Minister Milanovic gave his performance speech here I was convinced here is a new time, here is a man who will start in a new time, who will pick us all up on a pile and make this country turn out to be something better. It turned out to be exactly what it was four years ago, seven years ago. Same technology, only a little side has changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12564	Thank you. We have another replica, Mladen Novak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12565	Thank you very much. A colleague Filipovic found that removing the instrument of correction of an incorrect quote and I would add that the electronic presence had caused perhaps the most controversy between MPs in the Assembly. I'd say it's probably true, but unfortunately. Unfortunately, I think that's one of the most peripheral things we should actually discuss today. In my opinion, we should talk more about Prime Minister Milanovic's opening speech when he said we will not let what happened before happen happen again, everything will be rejected and the priors will refuse what comes from the opposition, we will change it, we will do differently. It goes on the same way. In a public appearance, Vice-President Leko said he would try to use the maximum possible consent around the Rules of Procedure. The maximum possible consensus has come down to it will be what we say, and everything else I'm sorry, but no. And that's exactly what ruins this House's reputation. That's exactly why they're the twos. A colleague, Boric, also mentioned those reports that never come on the agenda. So now we have what is interesting to me, the 2010 Railway Market Regulation Report, and now we are witnessing that Croatian railways are now failing and are now bringing them up with a new restructuring project that gets them by the end of the line. Also, the proposals, the legal proposals the opposition offers, and you know it won't go away. You have so many that it can't get through anything. But what's the problem even to discuss it? I see the time has passed, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12566	Thank you, too. Next up for a hearing, Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12567	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In the light of this law, the proposer spoke of it as more democracy, more parliamentaryism. However, the fact is that these arguments cannot even pass a simple test. It is simply the test to ask which, all of them, is there an agreement in the Assembly of all parliamentary parties or most parliamentary parties on consent, on how to adopt this Rules of Procedure. Can we bring this Rules of Procedure to two-thirds of the vote? Obviously we can't. And what reflects democracy is to adopt with as many rules of conduct as possible, not decisions that will be made or priorities as has been said which will be made by these decisions. What, then, can happen to this more democracy? It may happen that after the next elections, the parties change on the government and then the new set of rules. Or worse still, it can happen to keep those rules existing because it corresponds to the party in power, not the opposition. Only then will those who make arguments be found on the other side. This lack of common rules, the rules on which we can have agreement is what seems to be a problem to me, and what this Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament, which is claimed to be between him and the Constitution there is no more law that he is therefore the highest law on the work of the Parliament, that we are simply making this partial on the basis of the majority, though, we cannot say that it is not democratic, but we cannot say that it is more democracy and more parliamentaryism. So, with these changes, in my opinion, we're dealing with some fragmentary less important things, and basically the relationship hasn't entered. There was no problem with what was raised as a question of Parliament's dignity. It does not interfere with the parliament's relationship with the legislative and executive authorities. We've had our chance to hear here today, and down the road, we're the government. We are not the government, or you are not the government, you are the legislative authority, and the executive government was meant by the executive authority that this is an identification, it simply cannot work. What is the result of this identification? The consequence is that this House, which is said only God above it, is unable to bring its own captainship, nor agenda, nor session order, or committee. Those who, going to the European Parliament, the Council of Europe and other these institutions can already get the schedule of meetings to be held in 2013 per hour, per day, in the rooms where it will take place. We don't know when the session's gonna start or when it's gonna end. We had a chance, my colleague Lesar thought he was saying that the agenda was going on until evening, so it's changing the next morning. That's not true either. The other day, I think Thursday, three times the agenda changed during the day. We had an example that a debate was concluded last week about some laws, about the Privacy Act, about the Security Checks Act, and it didn't come to a vote, so we don't know why. It would be at least a turn if someone said something in the Assembly, etc. Therefore, the issue of this relationship between the government and the parliament, regardless of the ruling majority, is not as simple or as it is today. On the other hand, these changes are simply peripheral. A question about records, for example. What are the real duties, the obligations of the MPs? It's already been said so I won't repeat here we have representatives who are city, municipality, etc. So they have their own obligations, if they don't know the schedule in the Assembly, that mess will be transferred to local administration and self-government. Therefore, the obligations are not only to sit in the assembly or are at least obliged, the problem is to prepare the law, to be with your electoral body, to talk to experts and people, to participate in the work of the committee, etc. There's one way he wants to manipulate himself to the public, and imagine you don't have them here and what else we should do all those other obligations, they don't show up, and then it's for manipulation. Or you have a relationship with the law. Here in the Rules of Procedure you have prescribed what the Proposer needs in order for the laws to be laid down. You do not have such a provision that it is necessary, and in my opinion you should put it that it is necessary to state exactly when the public debate is open, who has all participated in this public debate, what are all opinions and views and put forward so when we adopt one law we have a consensus on it and that we know how much support that law has in advance in the public, and not just from the ruling majority. It seems to me that this kind of approach simply deepens the crisis, and there's no way that with this kind of approach we come out of the crisis, is it known that the consensus on the values that we're seeking is what allows us to go a long way, and that's the only way that allows us to get out of the crisis. We had the opportunity here to hear the first day of Mr. Milanovic's Prime Minister when he said when it came to the so-called. It's not against the law, it's not against the law, it's not against the law, it's our worldview. After that next week we heard when these public tenders for individual institutions were lifted, we are not interested in qualifications, we are only interested in people of trust. That's what's happening now. All these discussions about Secretary Holy's shift and it's just going the wrong way. As far as I'm concerned, it's not a problem for everyone to propose, advocate certain people, and normally the party in power puts their people in certain places, but changing the laws, changing regulations, changing statutes to put their mad without qualifications, that's what leads us to an even bigger crisis out of the company we're going to have a hard time getting out of. This simply means the party privatisation of the state and that is not what you want in this law and on this example to say that it is more democracy and more parliamentaryism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12568	Thank you. To your presentation one replica. Branko Vuksic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12569	Dear Professor. Tudjman said that above the Croatian Parliament is only God, in fact above the Croatian Parliament should be the people, but unfortunately it is neither God nor the people, but only the Croatian Government is above the Croatian Parliament. Turns out everything's wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12570	We have a reply to the replica, Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12571	I probably wasn't precise, I said that some people are saying that it is and that here is actually the relationship that exists between the Parliament and the government or the ruling majority in the Parliament and the government, practically if we want to caricate, then it's some kind of board or subcommittee of government. If you look at just a reaction from the media, as soon as the government proposes laws, it's immediately written down, it's settled, as soon as the government appoints someone else to take over Rohatinski. Therefore, the role of the Parliament, the Parliament's integrity, is thus minimised.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12572	Thank you. Next up for debate Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12573	Dear Vice President, the other vice president. I'm holding this in my hands, and then I'm going to hand over Mr. Lecki a correction to the incorrect quote, but I'm going to hand over this key that doesn't do any good. That's what we've been hearing for months now, it's the ones before us because they installed the wrong technique, so I think six months is enough, they just said that democracy is the most expensive non-democracy. I think it would be much more democratic to have these keys serve something, so I'll hand it over later. Here I think that a good part of the debate that has been conducted to deal with completely the wrong things, the wrong problems in the Croatian Parliament are listed. One of the only or most crucial questions is what is the Croatian Parliament actually turning into? But this Croatian Parliament does not turn hypocritical into what it has been for the last six months, it has been turning into what we are today 22 years since 1990, not to go on in history. The Parliament has become a voting machine. The MPs are dolls at the end. You know as well as I do who pulls the strings, who's the one who's done the strings before. The ends of another hill in Zagreb used to be, today they move across the border from the Parliament in the government. They used to do this in HDZ their leaders, today they are working here in Kukurik coalition Milanović and Cacic and it is absolutely certain that the Rules of Procedure, whatever we bring, will not solve the cowardice and will not solve the half-tronity. We know very well what Comrade Tudjman used to say, all decisions are made here in the Parliament only being voted. You know very well that at 12 p.m. on Friday, the stampede, the parliamentary representatives of various parts of Croatia and the world are coming to raise their hands, and they often don't know what they're raising their hands for. That's the problem with colleagues and colleagues. We didn't deserve a two, we deserved a clean unit because we here, before someone said the same, just to fulfill, not all but mostly from the authorities, before it was in HDZ's power, today it's in the power of the Kukuriku coalition. Remember, there used to be a man a parliamentary representative told from HDZ that he was smarter than Jesus, Ivo Sanader. He's pulling strings, he's giving it up today. He didn't wonder if the law was good before, he doesn't even wonder today if the law is good. It's often said in the halls that, we know, you're right, but it's party discipline. He's voting against his conscience, he's voting for party discipline, the voice seems to be due to the chair. ... I didn't hear you, so I can't answer. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] When this situation will change in the Assembly, above all by changing the Election Law, when more party leaders will not decide who will be on list 1, who will be 5, who will be on the 14th list, means when voters will be able to decide that they will be sitting in the Parliament on the 14th, not the 1st, I guess people will start and speak on their conscience and vote as they think they should vote. When they will be held accountable to a truly elective body, then, surely, this Assembly will begin to regain dignity. All of this that we are talking about in the House today, whether the abolition of the correction of an incorrect allegation is indemnity, whether the replica is better than the correction of an incorrect allegation, whether or not the members of the government will be given the opportunity to be superior to the MPs in the House, I think they are all flossules because they are essentially superior to the parliamentary representatives. As a matter of fact, the Parliament appears to come from the government, not the Parliament government, and that such practice will continue even after the adoption without any doubt Friday after the adoption of this Rules of Procedure. Croatian Labourists, whose president does not decide who will be on the election list, have proposed some additions, amendments to the Rules of Procedure. They're about procedure. However, no such proposal is respected. Why isn't he respected, because of what they say we'll take responsibility, we decide we won't listen to you. We are responsible to the people and we are responsible to the people and the people have chosen us and we have received the trust of their constituents in their election units. And the opposition in the House has the right to debate and the opposition has the right to propose laws and you as most should adopt proposals for discussion, and your responsibility is seen in that you will either accept or reject these proposals. But what's going on is that you don't even want to discuss it. The evidence of this is the HRT Act, for formal reasons you refused to discuss the two laws at the same time. And so you would adopt the one that you think is better, and the better is always yours because the government always has the greatest sense, and later on, you can see that it's not like that. So the rule of democracy, parliamentaryism, should be cherished here in Parliament, and this is the attitude of the majority towards the minority and that is, the essence of democracy. However, it is often unparliamentary in the Parliament itself, and opinions are not respected. As the majority MPs serve only to vote Friday at 12 pm, the majority of parliament consider the opposition only to be a decoration in the parliament. Everything proposed here will be run over just by raising hands, even no one wanted to look back on the proposals, so they do not want to discuss what the opposition is thinking, what the opposition is proposing, let alone consider whether these proposals should facilitate the work of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, make it easier for the majority in the Croatian Parliament. All that we are, the Croatian Labourists who have proposed it is going towards the fact that parliamentary representatives are doing their job more easily and that when you come to the opposition tomorrow, it is much easier for you. But you're just like HDZ thinks you'll rule forever, 20 years, that no one... But what you are doing now to the opposition, which is that you treat the minority unparliamentaryly, it will certainly come one day at a charge. [[You don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12574	Thank you. Three replicas have been reported for your presentation. The first one was Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12575	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. What my colleague Vuksic was just talking about is populism, it's a typical populist speech, that speech that counterpart Vuksic could hear about the Croatian Parliament at the bus station, those arguments, in the tram, in the cafe, in the market. Such a kind of populism government on the one hand, avoids because it does not go to the bus station, to the markets, does not drive on a tram and function otherwise. To be honest, this relationship between the Government and Parliament, which is their latent conflict, is not our specialty, is happening in the European Parliament as well. Permanent conflicts between the European Parliament and the Council. But what is the difference, there all groups in parliament are placed on their backs when the government, executive power, council, European Council, heads of state when they want to do something next to Parliament and something that has not passed the smart parliamentary procedure. That's not the case here. Here, always the ruling majority stands by their government no matter what the government does and which government it is. Someone's gonna have to break this vicious circle someday. Either we set up an office system in Croatia, then we know what it is or this vicious circle will end someone. I was sincerely hoping it would be the current government. You're obviously waiting for the Labourists. Well, you won't be waiting long.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12576	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Branko Vuksic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12577	Well, colleague Vuljanic, I agree with you. We will certainly be a mature parliamentary democracy, or we will begin to be a mature parliamentary democracy when this Parliament, or the Croatian Parliament, rejects the government's proposal. Remember how many times you got on the assembly bench law, an hour after that the amendments to that law came. If the amendments hadn't come to that law, it wouldn't have occurred to anyone to give amendments. But in the government they remembered to give, we made a mistake. The MPs seem forbidden to think and it's forbidden to contradict the government because the government knows, the Parliament doesn't know, the Parliament raises its hands, the Parliament is sitting dolls watching the moment across the street from St. Mark.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12578	Thank you. Another replica, Josip Djakic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12579	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's my colleague Vuksic. You've noticed a lot. I would refer only to those legal provisions that speak of civil servants. State officials are defined by the law on them and clearly says that jobs are being filled in the public services. So in the way in which the job is filled, which is defined in Article 45. The vacancy of public authorities shall be filled in through a public tender, an internal ad, promotions, transfers or schedules of a civil servant in accordance with this Act. Everything is explained in further articles as defined and how it can be. The procedure for admission to the state service as well. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. It is clear that they, which are the conditions for admission into the public service. The person receiving the service must have an appropriate degree of education, appropriate expertise and work experience except in the case of the admission of trainees. In the following sequence, it is clear what it must have if it is in the public service. He has to pass the state's professional exam. Without that, he'd be fired from the service within a year. He can't be admitted to state service temporarily, but up to a year, no longer. Everything is clearly defined. Even in this proposal, the Rules of Procedure also apply a law that has been put out of force other than its provisions on pay. I mean, it really has nothing to do with common sense that the laws that have been passed in this House that are valid and that are not put out of force are so rudely broken. The transitional and final provisions clearly state that, in relation to civil servants, the Law on civil servants ceases to apply, but applies only in salaries. Of course, we can't agree with such adoption as you have noticed that without a public competition, without internal competition, without advances in the service, there are also representatives clubs, and then finally that the club president is the one who is measured to fire that person for a certain time or to move him out of the system because he doesn't meet his conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12580	Thank you, Mr. Djakic. We have, we don't have a reply to the replica. Next line, Mladen Novak, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12581	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Vuksic, you said in your debate, the Parliament comes down to the voting machine. Your predecessor, Professor. Tudjman said around the media are announcing the government's decision as final because the parliament is no longer or less I will not say irrelevant, but pro form in making some decisions. To one and the other of those statements on this side of silence. The silence is a sign of approval. The explanation is democracy in the bandages, we are a young democracy. So what are we doing to change that? But nothing at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12582	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Branko Vuksic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12583	Dear colleague Novak, silence can be a sign of ignoring, ignoring. Thus, as they are ignored from the government, the opposition is likely to try to ignore them from this right hand side whether it is right, whether it is left, every four years it changes. However, it is certain that the bosses on the other side of St. Mark may be forced into the assembly by parliamentarians, and we could certainly order that and the position to discuss this. The position doesn't discuss it at all because it doesn't seem to be an important topic, because it's already written and my God has to discuss it. But the party heads don't force them, they don't force them because they reached an agreement. You raise your hands, and after that you are not required to be in the assembly. It is absolutely certain that, for the sake of Parliament's duties, parliamentary representatives should be raised and for the sake of the Croatian Parliament's dignity, think about it and prepare one Rules of Procedure and change some other laws and see if any parliamentary representatives should sit on five chairs and not perform any of their functions properly and with the mayors, the mayors, as well, do their duties in colleges, to appear, to just show up at the vote. These are topics to be discussed by parliamentary representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12584	Thank you. And next up for the debate, Ante Babic, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12585	Thank you, Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. A lot has been said today and it's not good to repeat itself, but I can't say some things that have been a little touched. In fact, in the term in which I came to the Croatian Parliament, I, like most in the Croatian state, would say that under the quotes of the ordinary regiment, we would have an opinion on the Parliament and parliamentary representatives. However, it was also conditioned to the media. However, by coming here to the Croatian Parliament, I have completely changed that opinion not only about parliamentary representatives in the Croatian Parliament, but also about these people who serve us here in the restaurant hall, from cafes, info centres, libraries and phonogram services, printers and all that. These hardworking people who serve us here, who don't actually see each other, and they work alone while we're here and in the time we spend here in the Croatian Parliament. That's why I would disagree with my colleague Vuksic, who says the MPs are only here to raise their hands as he instructed his party leaders. Well, let's just say, here's my arrival today at the Assembly of eight o'clock in the morning because I made a mistake in the term of the Committee on Gender Equality, which was supposed to be at 9:00 today, not tomorrow, but tomorrow, I used it in our congregation library with women who can very well direct you to some of the things that are happening here. And after that, we had the admission of the citizen Croats who came to us with their problems here to the Parliament so that we could help them with their parliamentarians because of the recent National Minorities Act that will be passed in the Austrian Parliament thinking that, because we are in nature, we are talking about ourselves worst and we are showing ourselves in the worst light. And when we see it in countries that have a longer democracy, some things don't go the way we think. The fact is that this final proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament is changing three important things for me, and that is what we were talking about today is the correction of the incorrect allegations, then the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and what I cannot agree with is the registration and registration of parliamentary representatives. Theoretically, they can sign up and be here for one minute and get out of here. Today, however, there was talk of modernising all of this in the Croatian Parliament. I'll tell you, here I am sitting there believing like most colleagues at 70 cm, I have this device and it's my device, it's not a Parliament device, where I have my cell phone, I pay it, it's not paid by the Parliament. In these 70 cm, I have 20 bill proposals, some of my materials that I use to prepare as best as possible for debates in the Croatian Parliament. Believe me, it's not enough, it's small and compared to other parliaments I don't think we should talk at all about how we are here, or how we work here in the Croatian Parliament. Now, with that electronic record, it's true that some of our colleagues have said, and there are a lot of us who are mayors, mayors, and it's certain that we have to perform our duties and from where we come from. Of course, I would also agree with my colleague Tudjman who says if there is a mess, thinking about a riot on the agenda, and if we don't know how this agenda lasts, of course it's being transferred to local self-government units, or to lower levels, because if there's something wrong down here, then it's going to be cuddling up or otherwise, or we're not going to honor those terms that we should have. So the next thing you know, there's been talk of political communication here, and there's actually a Parliament to be in charge of the government, not the Government of the Parliament. I believe that both these amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament will agree on some things that should serve all of us. I believe that, but I'm not in favour of these things changing, and I'm sure I'll be with my club against it and against the amendments and additions to this law. In the hope that we will all be better believed that we will always look for better solutions so that the public and, first and foremost, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will be better off not discussing such things about the most important things in Croatia and knowing the economic opportunities today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12586	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12587	I agree with you. Parliamentarians also work in committees, parliamentary representatives communicate with citizens, parliamentarians write laws, parliamentarians write amendments, all this is done by parliamentary representatives. But in the end, I am talking first of all about the parliamentary representatives of the majority, eventually parliamentary representatives of the majority decide whether to accept or reject the laws proposed by the government. And what happens then? They never refuse. Which means they don't decide anything. It means it's all over. If the prime minister can replace the governor and write about it in public about the almost matter that the governor is being removed and will be appointed because the Prime Minister is appointed by Mr Vujčić, and Rohatinski is removed and when the prime minister does so on the phone because he says what he will meet then he really is this Parliament Puppet Theatre.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12588	Thank you. Next up for debate, Franjo Lucic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12589	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. So here I am also going to be attached to these amendments and the additions of the law and I will say what I said in the replica earlier that this debate today, which is being held here in Parliament, is really saying everything. He says that we who are in opposition today have objections to this law, and that at the same time the position, so SDP and the other parties that are in the coalition, simply today do not have the need for discussion because they must be all clear, and we who are reporting here today, which we are discussing, which we point to something that does not turn out well that we are some different representatives from these people who come from the SDP and the coalition. Is that really how it is? In the discussion of the club president we just heard in front of the SDP and where I personally told him that he himself convinced himself that this law is good indeed shows and says earlier this activity that I was talking about that there are no simple people interested in the debate in front of the coalition shows that it is indeed one thing of one mind, that it is a display of one force within the Parliament which is what are here and my other colleagues were talking about because it really points to that. No one can convince me that's not the case. Just for the reason you're thinking, we have a majority, and you tell your story, you replicate. And you're also denying us the correction of an incorrect quote because what if by any chance the HDZ had done in the last term or by God's sake eight years ago? Well, we remember very well the rhetoric of colleagues from the SDP who used the dictionary in the past term. How many times have they used what you say today is a malicious correction of an incorrect allegation. How many times were spoken in inappropriate language, insults, insults from the Prime Minister and beyond. Today, here and in the past days, you are giving us a lecture on good behavior in this House. So do you think we forgot the last year and the last term? And so today, indeed, all that we're saying and all that you've said today, so through one or two exposures, it's exactly what you're doing is you're going to be carrying out a violent undercover act, so we're going to do it in any way we want you to or not want to do it. So is it really necessary today in the 21st century when we are watching at the same time other parliaments who have just given their representatives not only speak for the main speaker but also to express their opinion and corrections through all possible implementation within the plenary session? Do you think, first of all, that you are probably leaving from your representatives who are not here today but from the beginning of the Parliament, I know them, but I will not be so mean as to name them, how many times they have been at a session of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, I will not talk about your prime minister how many times he has been in the past four years. And today you're introducing some cards. Yeah, and we're into cards, so we'll see who's coming who's not coming, who's talking, etc. You are these days just as fast as you want to do today and the second item of the executive law, you want to simply put everything that's staged in the afternoons when the cameras aren't involved, you want to distract the public from the comments and debates of the people from the opposition, you simply want to offend in every way everything we propose and indeed in these 6 months you've made mistakes, so much of it, you fly, you correct yourself, you bring laws, you withdraw laws, etc., etc. Isn't it enough said in the past days how you and how you passed the Law on Public Television? And that's where you also made one blow, to all of us here who thought differently, but what's most important is you hit people and who chose you and those who watch state television? So is today allowed and the EU's recommendation is that HRT or the state must not be party, you have said all about it in these past days. You let and force you to replace all those people who have been elected in one democratic way and then two days before you pass those laws you send as police, invent there because they did something or didn't do it. Well, you've had that time and after you've set up your men, but this is better this way to send the police before it's said that we've replaced you, we have to change you, you're not doing well. So such a repressive law has been passed where you will have party television, where all your leaders will be able to praise with your mouth open in the morning, and at noon and evening, but the people will recognize it and already know it. You've passed repressive economic laws that will kill the economy in a very short period of time. We said we weren't against it, but we're against being brought that fast. You have passed many more laws that are against the interests of the Croatian people and will certainly be harmful to them. Why in this day and age did one of his colleagues speak, so do you think you will rule for 20 years? So what if you lose power in a short period of time and prepare like you're going to live and rule for 120 years? Do we need such laws in this day and age? And when we talk about cards, so we're talking about going out, we're just the culprits that we created in public such a perception that parliamentary deputies don't work without them, at the same time, not asking where we are, what committees we are, but we're just all together guilty because that's what happened. From another piece of shit today we also have representatives who are both mayors and mayors, and you are now proposing a new law where you can and the mayor will be able to be a parliamentary representative which I think is the same because that representative colleague Vuksic spoke as if we shouldn't deal with everything, colleague Vuksic if you didn't, and you weren't the head of local self-government and regional self-government, I'm the one who is both mayors and mayors and mayors far more easily able to solve their problem locally than if you're not. It is so much better that these representatives, and tomorrow the mayors should be here, but don't limit them from being able to go out and go to any ministry, to any fund or to any institution, because simply helping all those people who work in our local self-governments is just the necessary help of MPs who work here in the Croatian Parliament because they are in direct contact with all ministers and with all those people who make up the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And that's why this passing of the law and refusing to say what's meant here, to deny it, and you say that you won't be able to correct an incorrect quote but you'll be able to have a replica, yes, you're giving the government's representative that we're replicating him and at the same time that he's answering you and you can't answer him anymore. And you have to comply with his answer because your opinion is worth nothing. A representative of the Government or of the Proposer of any law will have the final word and what he says is sacred, and all that we think is different or that we have already convinced you several times that you are not making good laws, it will not all be worth it, and every word of counsel will be offended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12590	Time, buddy. We have a replica of Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12591	My dear colleague, just to correct you, it's not state television, but public television, HRT should be public television so far has not been state or public or party. They didn't support her. That's what I'm threatening with hypocrisy, and the police need to handle it, and I don't believe the SDP sent the police to Prisavlje. According to high-level police officials, police were not allowed to edit HRT at the time of HDZ because every time she found some insubordinations, they said to themselves, don't touch our people. Therefore, as critical as I am of this law, I would not have drawn such a relationship between the police and the authorities, or HTV. I think Parliamentarians should do one job, or when they do three jobs, then they don't do a single job well because they're not supermen, and that's proven. You can't be in two places at the same time, you can't be good enough to be able to do two jobs, three jobs, four jobs, be mayor of a big city, say Split, and be a parliamentary representative. Surely, there is no man who will perform one duty well. That's what they're called. people who think they're irreplaceable, people who think they're going to ruin the world, but you can see that Croatia is going down with them too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12592	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Franjo Lucic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12593	My colleague Vuksic, we didn't understand each other. I didn't say we had to be, so we have our deputies working at the local administration. So we, if we're there and we're not there, but we're that extended arm that'll solve the problem of local and regional self-government. So that's what I was talking about. We have people doing certain jobs. You're saying HDZ had people on TV. Well HDZ, that's exactly what everyone knows, maybe it's a shame HDZ didn't set up its own people and we didn't have any people... We haven't had any of our people on public television. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So what this is doing right now is just guessing that the SDP and the coalition have their own people from the director, from the editors, from all those who run the HRT and you'll see it very soon in a short time and you'll see that these existing people who are there will be replaced and then someone will tell me that it's not political and someone will tell me that it's in some general public social interest. Television must remain public television and must simply run such a program that will not be colored by party colors, and this will just happen that public television will become a party television paid by citizens and we will certainly fight that television should not be paid by subscription. It will make Malta not only party but commercial television and everything it shouldn't be, because so far this television has really been in the interest of the Croatian people, but from now on it won't be.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12594	Thank you. Next up for discussion, Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12595	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. Here are the six hours we've been discussing a document that should be regulated in a certain way to raise the dignity of this house and all of us sitting inside, sorry for four hours, I'm sorry, not six. However, it is very interesting that in this debate, except in clubs, colleagues from the ruling coalition do not participate at all, and the logical thing is that it may not be, but it is obvious that, when this Rules of Procedure is viewed from the positions of those who are in the ruling majority, then it should look different, when you look at the position of the opposition, then again you feel that it should look different, and at the same time the representatives of the Government when they sit there then think that this Rules of Procedure should be different, that the MPs have little too many rights. But just what might be the lack of this together where we are is that we're not going to make our own rules about how to behave and how to work here. Do we really think that it is important that we pass some law regardless of what we think intimately and personally about it or that it is far more important for this law to bring something better to Croatia tomorrow? Here you are, today the government has made a decision to amend its regulation that it made three days or four days ago on excise duties. Four days ago, it was said that the price of fuel would fall and that that would make the excise duties rise, today another story. So how could someone have made such a mistake and whether it was more important than this Rules of Procedure? Is the Institute correcting the incorrect allegations, is the record of when parliamentary deputies coming or not coming to the Assembly, whether hiring one or two club counselors is far more important than how we in this House are doing and whether we in the House are really suggesting that someone in the Government may have simply made a mistake in proposing a certain law. Did we perhaps need to pay a little more attention in this Rules of Procedure to how the work on our committees looks and how these committees discuss laws and in a certain way prepare them for parliamentary debate? We're going backwards at a time when HDZ was in power. I'm not just gonna talk about these six months. How many times has it been since the debate on committees that parliamentary representatives have changed the government's proposal? Almost never. You can count two hands on your fingers if that's what happened. You get some small amendments from two or three committees, it's agreed with the proposer, he adopts some kind of amendment from the ruling coalition. Now, colleagues and colleagues, one elemental question arises, should we have arranged for this Rules of Procedure to make our activities and work through committees more quality and better, then perhaps the debate at parliamentary sessions would be a little different. Perhaps then we could put this discussion on committees and some other things beyond whether we will have or not tomorrow to correct the incorrect allegations. Because look, colleagues from above all SDP, they were the most in the past term when they were in opposition, then that correction of an incorrect quote as an instrument in a parliamentary debate, a parliamentary struggle seemed to be something great, something phenomenal. And, however, the presidents who led the meetings can very much confirm that it was actually very difficult to determine the limit where the correction is, where it is not a correction, but simply used as an excellent instrument in the parliamentary struggle. And what they're doing now, knowing that it was one weapon that they used very well, they're taking that weapon out of the hands of today's opposition. And that's a fact and it's true and that's why the institute is abolished by correcting an incorrect quote, nothing else. Because he can't say the vice president who chaired it when I was correcting some incorrect assumption that the bench could be wooden, so you replace it with a stone, it remains a bench. It's true, but we now have a replica, no matter what it may be, but we are left without correcting an incorrect quote. In order for the Croatian people to have a 20 per cent break of electricity, the gas 30 per cent, when taxes are raised, to entertain something, then throw them so little to discuss whether the parliamentary representatives will register their entry into the assembly via some kind of electronic card or sign into this book there. It hurts the concern of Croatian citizens how we are going to register, but for God's sake, when they got their first gas and electricity bills now in the sixth month, their hand, wallet, heart and soul were in pain. And when they get their first gas bills in 12 months for that gas war that's 1,000 and something else, so when they have to pay 300, 400 kuna, then they're gonna get in the way and then they're gonna be interested. Then they'll ask us what we're doing here. Because after all, they chose us here to create conditions for them to live better. And we can pass on to each other as much as we want, and then you did this, and then we did it. See what's going on today? Do you really think that this Law on executives and executive law does not entangle Croatian citizens? If that's what you think, then you're wrong. But look, we're gonna push that bill now at 6:00 in the evening into a parliamentary debate, wondering if any of the ruling constituency clubs will discuss it. The ruling coalition MPs will not debate at all, they will discuss the opposition only enough to keep it recorded that we have discussed. But I'm telling you, don't be fooled that law doesn't really encode Croatian citizens. And how it enlarges them, so you'll see when it starts to apply. And let's not switch to one of you who wanted to create some kind of caste, some who would be rich in what they would do. Look how effective these judicial perpetrators have been in recent years and why they haven't done their job the same people, but that's what we'll do when it comes to that law. I'm just trying to tell you what our priority list is. We've been discussing something here for four hours that doesn't matter to me. The dear God and the Croatian people care whether we here lift up a rod with a replica or with a correction of an incorrect quote. It's all the same for Croatian citizens. But if someone told them on Thursday that their fuel would go away not 15 but 19 because it's still being paid for and VAT up there, so to say sorry today, we miscalculated, so it won't work, it'll only go to 24.7. This speaks clearly of one insecureness, one instudiocy, one simply ignorance of matter. And now I come to what I want to say in the end. The biggest tragedy and this House that he is turning into a voting machine of the Croatian government. It's the biggest tragedy. I know that colleagues from the ruling coalition would be most fortunate in the end and we acted like that when we were in power, I will not say that we are not, the happiest when the law is proposed to vote as soon as possible and that this goes on. Now, are we going to go by principle if that's how it was, so now we're going to do it anyway or we're going to do what our job is, and that's to make Croatian citizens better and to be in a certain way a government corridor. That's the key question, that's the key question. And if we are in this way unable to discuss in this Croatian Assembly then we do not satisfy what we are chosen to do here and we can talk that we can be chosen from both the list and one way or another but we simply do not meet what we should do. Dear friends, we are waiting for the economy and all very, very hot autumn. Unfortunately, the government did not do what was meant to be done and what was said here when was the inauguration of the government and when was the adoption of the parliament, which is the reduction of consumption. And you'll see how the financial institutions react in the fall. These union talks, so look, it was said three years ago, but then it was blasphemous, then it was convenient to parade with the unions and sign a request for a referendum. But when people don't know how to assess the problem of the state, then what happens today is what happens, and that's why my colleagues and colleagues are sorry that we simply don't talk about a document that should have been raised in a certain way and our personal dignitity in some way so that people don't look at us the way they look at us, we're not able to discuss it properly, but we're saying things that are totally irrelevant. I think the conditions for the work of parliamentary deputies, and they are unfortunately none, because if you want to get ready for the debate then you have to have an office, you have to have access to both the Internet and everything, and unfortunately most of the parliamentary representatives don't have it. And if we're going to look at this Rules of Procedure and the general agenda points depending on which position we're currently in, then we're not going to do anything good, and we're going to be able to pass on to each other who did what. Everyone at a certain historic moment in this country had a chance to do something. Therefore, the people will judge who did what. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12596	Thank you, too. We have a replica, Anna Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12597	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Shuker, you said you cared about whether the MPs would register with a card or in a book that they didn't care. Of course they should care, and they don't really care. But today, the media has been talking about how the cards will be drawn and, of course, while they're talking about it, then forget to think about the government's misjudges, forget to think about how much more expensive their lives are, how much price increases. And when they get those bills for electricity and for gas, of course they won't, they'll forget who they're really supposed to be mad at, but they'll have a red cloth of council representatives coming to work or not coming to work. Sometimes it seems to me that it's intentional to direct everything towards the MPs. The other morning, Minister Mrsic was in the Assembly, on a radio show. An angry citizen, of course, was talking about the costs of transportation for civil servants and workers, where a citizen asked and what about the costs of transporting parliamentary representatives, when you would end it for them. The minister instead of saying that parliamentary deputies were two years old, because during HDZ the right was abolished, that and another MP, instead of answering that, he said yes, and we're going to ask that too. We're going to correct a few of them there, too. Now, sometimes it seems to me that it's just on purpose that this blade of anger wouldn't go to the right address.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12598	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Comrade Shucker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12599	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Yes, colleague Lovrin. Instead of breaking news tonight on all the radio televisions, on the portals, tomorrow in all the daily newspapers, it is simply the government that made a catastrophic mistake because it has deceived Croatian citizens, because Thursday said that raising these excise duties for 19 lipa will not go up, because simply the price, the situation on the world market will be such that the price will fall down nicely pushed slowly with the great all doctors aside and debated whether the MPs will push the card one way or not. But otherwise, only so much for the Croatian public, because of the record of this famous and brilliant vote at the time when the world had already voted by fingerprints or otherwise, it was there somewhere in 2001 that the then president of the Croatian Parliament had introduced so that it didn't work for three years, etc. And this has its own career, and it's better not to open it. So, the easiest thing is with such benign things that are generally political or costing or not costing someone to entertain the Croatian public, and what is crucial, which is important to push aside. For look also at these conflicts within the ruling coalition are not politically harmless. Or talk about it, about the division of the union in the position of one union group and the attitude of another union group about how someone today would take away the rights that convinced them yesterday that they had the right to those rights and that the wicked HDZ government should simply not take it. Because it's anti-national, it's anti-human, so that some rights would be abolished, and that's what HDZ people wanted to do. See what happens a few months after coming to power we realize that this anti-national government was right and that this should simply be done. And now the biggest problem is that the film can't go back and that signature can't be overwritten so that Croatian citizens don't see how someone fooled them, how someone gave them a fake story. And look, all that talk about saving a credit rating is just a farce. Croatia was due to receive an increased credit rating at the time of EU entry, rather than a decrease. Just as a bonus of what, or a bonus of what she entered the EU. And we talked about fighting to keep an existing credit rating, but since we haven't done what we need to see what happens to us in the fall.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12600	Thank you, fellow Shuker. Next to discuss Ruža Tomasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12601	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's when something goes down or changes, then it usually changes better, more efficiently. I don't see how removing an institution's correction to an incorrect quote will be more effective. Imagine now a representative of the government who proposes the law and then someone gives him a replica and he answers it with a replica and it's not true again. And then the representative waits until he returns his word and then gives him a replica from what he said. So the replicas will never end. And I don't know how if a government official keeps saying what at least we don't think is true, whether we're going to have some kind of sign on which it's not true, doesn't tell the truth, or maybe even worse. Or we'll write on a piece of paper not telling the truth. So I don't know if that's what's been thought about and thought about it all the way. In fact, the quality of work in the Assembly is not determined by either the electronic card, and neither by removing the correction of the incorrect quote but by the quality of work is appreciated by the respect of MPs and by respecting the Presidency of the Parliament and each other. So, respect us by sometimes accepting our opposition's proposals in the form of a proposal during the debate or in the form of a bill. Then we know that we respect each other, we know that we're worth something and that our opinion counts. That's how we know we respect each other. As for the Rules of Procedure, if I could change something in the Rules of Procedure or add something, I would add that the party's discipline is banned and simply voted on by my conscience. Imagine, then, what the bill would be like in this House, imagine what the bill would go through in this House. Unfortunately, in all these 22 years of the Croatian Parliament, the party's discipline is still valid. Besides, I think the wise Presidency of the Parliament should convene sessions, each new session once a month. Then they would allow for current mornings or questions and see on these issues what the opposition thinks, whether they are wrong, and if they are wrong where they are wrong, and then they would correct it. And so far, the relationship between the opposition and the position will be agreed, as we say. Unfortunately, all governments have so far thought that with their mandate they would gain wisdom, but this state of affairs in this country shows the boredom that there was no wisdom at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12602	Thank you, too. Next up for the debate, Anna Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12603	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here is the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. It is certainly our basic act that we should regulate our relations and rules of conduct in this House. It should certainly be our act to protect both the Croatian Assembly and our parliamentary representatives. And what is the dignity of the Croatian Parliament and of us MPs, regardless of the ruling or opposition, it is seen here from today's work of this plenary session, but also from Thursday and Friday when the entire position of the ruling one had nothing to say. She had something to say, she'd have something to say, but she got a simple warrant not to discuss. Why can't he speak, and this is the message we won't tell us to do it all, and you can say it that way and so what most people want will be voted on, and you choose to argue and the punishment for what you debate will be for you to sit down by midnight today. Here we are today going to make an extremely important set of law enforcement laws and follow the laws we will begin the debate sometime after 6:00 p.m. until it is. Now, if we're going to argue, we'll be sitting by midnight, if we want to go home early, don't talk. We'll vote that anyway. So much for that, and I don't think that's good. This shows how much the government itself thinks and appreciates its own representatives. Cacic and Milanovic, as they say, will vote and you have nothing to say, especially when we have decided that it must go in an urgent and urgent and fast procedure. And what we would expect from the Parliament's Rules of Procedure is, above all, to regulate what is not regulated by boredom and what would be necessary to resolve, and that is what European Parliaments have therefore a programme of the work of the Parliament, a provision on how long a single session can last. So, could it take months, could it be endlessly complementing the agenda, could that agenda be completed on Friday, two days ago with 21 laws, and here on Friday we got on the table, let's say, the Executive Law. Look at the size of it, today we have to discuss it. The committees messed it up in no time, they didn't even argue that there would be assumptions for a debate at the plenary session. Maybe it could be arranged when we're past the cards if it's Parliament's working hours from 9 to 19 so we know how long we'll be discussing not being told this way if you're having a debate, then you'll be up till midnight, etc., etc. So, that's the thing, remember when this coalition came to power, at the first session of the Parliament president and prime minister said we weren't like you, we won't have marathon sessions for months that there's no actual clock, we won't be supplementing the agenda. Those were promises, and behind that, what happened? Here's the session that lasts, it seems to me, since half of April, so for almost three months, we're getting a new set on the table. The amendments to this Rules of Procedure have in fact been virtually zero, and the institute is abolished to correct an incorrect allegation. I agree with my colleague Tomasic that this will go on forever. That's worse for a government official because before you had to hunt him down in that you could correct his exact factual assumption and now he'd be able to replicate everything and when he answers or she'll be able to look back at what he did before and there really won't be an end to it. And these recording provisions, they seem to me no offense to the proposer but really pointless. I don't know what their purpose is. So the last thing is that the MP would like to avoid being present here in the Assembly, especially not because I am regularly here, but here I read says "the representative confirms coming to the Croatian Parliament by electronic means" and item 2. "The confirmation of the arrival referred to in paragraph 1 of this article shall also include the participation of representatives in the work of working bodies, the travel of representatives after the approval of the President of the Croatian Parliament, and the obligation to the club of representatives". What does that mean? Yeah, before he goes on a trip to get there in a hurry, that break-in, register or when he comes to the club? I really don't understand. What's the record for besides standing somewhere to entertain the general public? What's the point? What's the penalty? What happens if someone doesn't register the 10 working days of the Parliament? One of the reasons was that MPs don't take sick leave, but after which day they don't register they're going to have to bring in signs of sick leave. Does that mean we're gonna have to get a solution for our vacation when we, for example, take a vacation? We don't register for a month, does that mean we're going to have to be given a solution for our vacation when Parliament doesn't work? I find that provision completely pointless. Even so, it is a book or a card if it does not pull or edit any other device behind it. Furthermore, infringement of the Rules of Procedure, amendments to the provisions on infringement of the Rules of Procedure that the MP is obliged if he is not satisfied with the President's reply, to submit a request for a statement to the Committee on the Constitution and to the Rules of Procedure, if he does not do so, he loses the right to repeat his objection to the breach of the Rules of Procedure. It seems to me that we have not received much of it, and that this institute will continue to be raised, which is fine, I have nothing against it, to lift up a plate of infringements of the Rules of Procedure, and mainly will not publically declare a representative to have the intention of requesting a Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, so nothing important will happen about these amendments. I'd like to say one more thing about these employees or employees of the club representatives. These are employees who certainly carry out official tasks that are at work in the professional services of the Assembly or the club. I can understand further the need for them to be taken for a certain period of time, but I cannot understand why it would be worth not applying to them the provisions on the national expert exam on the need to have some knowledge. They come in contact with documents, etc. Therefore, all of them, as well as the ethical code and all that applies to civil servants, should be valid for them. I don't see why that's not worth it to them. Here, I think this is a lot of stories, a lot of speeches but actually changes none. What I personally expected in view of the discussion of SDP representatives when they were in opposition on the occasion of the 2008 amendment of Rules of Procedure, the main representative of Stazic, who spoke on behalf of the SDP club, about the establishment of a new unnecessary 4 committee, that these are coalition appetites, the division of the electoral prey, we cannot satisfy the appetites of HDZ representatives and coalition partners, and therefore, as amoebes, these committees are emerging. Here is the 2012 representative Stazic and SDP and HNS are in a position to amend this Rules of Procedure. I have not seen that these proposals amend those committees and estimate that they were not necessary and that they are not needed today. It is likely that there are coalition appetites today and that is the way to satisfy them. Only I can understand that, but let's be honest and be objective because we are parliamentary representatives regardless of ruling or opposition. The elections are every 4 years positions change and we really shouldn't look at who's on which side but bring a good basic act to which we will act and first of all protect the integrity of this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12604	Thank you. We have a correction to the incorrect quote by Peja Grbin. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12605	Thank you. Well, here's a colleague of mine. I'm going to look back on your very incorrect assumption that in laws, in concrete law, there was no discussion on committees. In particular, I had more objections to the proposal for the text of the law on which the competent ministry would be shown when the draft law was concluded and you would probably notice that you were at the meeting of the Legislative Committee. And not only was it not for you, but I don't think there were any other HDZ colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12606	Thank you. We have on your presentation of colleague Lovrin's 5 replicas. First responds Ivan Shuker. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12607	Thank you very much. It's nice like this when a fellow parliamentary advocates predicate to each other when they were, only your colleagues told us you're ruling you're to secure the quorum. But in this undemocratic HDZ time, it was agreed that fellow Leko could confirm that the sessions lasted up to 18.30 minutes, and if something extraordinary was working longer. And fellow parliamentary deputies, it was an internal agreement, they could plan their time and everything together. But what's been happening to us lately, first of all, is that the Parliament's session was being pulled apart just so there wouldn't be an actual morning, that most of the laws that were nothing at all for an emergency procedure were passed by emergency procedure, for reasons only to vote. Let us now see colleagues and colleagues, what is the effect of these laws on better standards of Croatian citizens if they are adopted by emergency procedure and if some Croatian citizens lose that these laws have been passed in regular procedures and that perhaps some solutions have been far better. I guarantee you this would be the other way around. Unfortunately, however, there is no agreement and we will be doing so this whole week, from morning till nightfall, I remember that once when my colleague Arlovic was Vice President of the Parliament, when he sat there at 6 o'clock then we knew that we were 11-12 o'clock without worry and that one 30 laws would break down that day. Of course, no one from the ruling coalition debated. We are obviously back in time from 12 years ago as far as the work and behavior of the Parliament is concerned. But look, colleagues and colleagues, in a year we become a member of the European Union, I don't think we care what laws we pass. If we have already passed some laws and said that they are in line with European Union legislation, why are we now changing them upside down, which are diametrically contrary to what was adopted several months ago, while Croatia has finished negotiations. So if, just one more sentence please, I see that time is up...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12608	Please finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12609	If we all boasted that we had completed successful negotiations, why are we now denying ourselves what we used to say was very good.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12610	Thank you. A colleague named Peja Grbin has announced a violation of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12611	The Honorable colleague Shuker injured the Rules of Procedure and that Article 209(3), because instead of replicating the esteemed representative Lovrin, he replicated my correction of the incorrect assumption. Although he was right, most of them are here to secure the quorum but welcome when the opposition is involved in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12612	My fellow coat of arms, there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure. I think we're still parliamentary democracy and we're being tolerated, even though by now you might have noticed that in the debate and the replicas, we can make a connection and replicate. I think you'll agree with me that it wasn't a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. We're moving on with the replicas. Answer. I'm saying it's my problem again, and I'm saying inside the club, we're replicating it at the club's session. Here you go, colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12613	Thank you very much. We might have someone else to discuss, but we have no one to talk to. But I will agree with my colleague Shucker that in fact, they have no effect at all, or in the vast majority of cases, no effect on these laws that are passed needlessly under the emergency procedure or will have the effect of all the laws that we are now engulfed to make decisions on our return. Well, then I must say that, if these terms were to be the way they were supposed to be, I'd be at the session of the Committee of Law and at the meeting of the Justice Committee on Mondays and Tuesdays, so we can sit there and discuss ourselves freely. And since the session was scheduled to be held at 2:00 p.m., a club session was to be held before that because we received the materials at 12 p.m. on Friday. So one man can't be in five places at once, and I'm sorry that I wasn't at that committee session because I would debate, but there won't be any big effect either that this law now that we're going to discuss from 7 p.m. probably by 10 p.m., we could also discuss it tomorrow morning and a series of these laws that are in the proposal could be discussed in regular procedure, and if the ruling majority, or the government, assess that something very urgent and important for the state, then there is an extraordinary session of the Assembly that can be called after 15 July, of course, but for important things, and not for this everything that we are proposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12614	Thank you. Next replica, Miroslav Tudjman. Here's a colleague of Tudjman's.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12615	Thank you very much. My colleague Lovrin talked about how we are now in a situation where one party is not at all participating in the debate, and the debate is on the other hand only, but the fact is that we have discussed and not discussed it, because these laws will be passed anyway. The debate over why the position has not been part of these discussions for a few days is obvious that all these laws would be passed without debate so that it could go on vacation, or not to call for an extraordinary session of the Parliament. The way to really avoid it is what I tried to say in my discussion to define the rules of conduct. If the Rules of Procedure introduced that proposals, legislative proposals should introduce an analysis of the effectiveness of the previous laws, which is why they change and what needs to be changed, if it were to be transparent who was all involved in the public debate with what kind of objections, then we would have far more quality discussions, it would not have come to this and what counterpart Schuker said, these laws would have been much more thoroughly prepared and, in that case, sometimes, it could have happened that both parties were not taking part in the debate if we realized that these proposals were well prepared. This kind of motive for participation and non-participation is quite different, and what we're all here for, is to bring real and good laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12616	Thank you. We have an answer, Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12617	Thank you very much. So that fellow Tudjman, right, position, rule boycotting the debate by dictatorship. A lot of people might like to say something, but they just can't, so that's the party's deal and they have to keep quiet there on the side. But also by dictatorship, here's a colleague of the coat of arms as a junior representative who wasn't in the last meeting. Maybe he doesn't know he's ruling today, and then the opposition boycotted the work of the board, so I'd say, well, for over a half a year before the election. No one ever came on boards again, and before that they would come here and there when they were given, of course, if they were cameras to say something to the cameras. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12618	Thank you. Next up for the replica of Gyurjitsumrak. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12619	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Lovrin, so it's not just today's position boycotted the committee's work. You remember very well that in the last term we brought 800 here, here is my colleague, Boric, who gave statistics, 815 laws, half of which must have been a alignment with the European Union. So today’s rulings did not even participate in plenary sessions. Since they did not participate in these sessions in harmonising laws today without a problem they break all these laws because, of course, nowhere in the phonogram does it appear that any one of them has said anything about it. Similarly, these two days ago, three days or three days when they say nothing will not leave a trace anywhere in the phonogram that any member of the ruling coalition has in any way declared himself to this, of course other than the proponent. I apologize, of course they said some of it. Well, here's the reality of that philosophy. If I say nothing, I am not guilty, I am not involved again, but I can spit it all together on what was brought for the European Union. So, they're still doing things their way. Here's the 21st plan. That's how they got it, so I'm sure that's how they'll lose it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12620	Thank you. Do we have an answer? We don't have an answer. Thank you. Josip Boric, replica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12621	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I have to replicate to my colleague Lovrin in the part where she talked about how our sessions would last indefinitely, the current clock, etc. I've looked at what's on this, so I'll tell you what, a year ago, that famous Kukuriku agreement of all parties to the Kukuriku coalition was signed. And that's when they told us at Mark's square: "We'll have a more democratic, fairer and more moral government." And now I'm reading a full statement as said by one of the party's leaders of the ruling coalition. "The time we enter is looking for a completely different policy, a completely different government, quite different people. This coalition is based on other political foundations, other moral and human values, and we will build on it a completely different government that will fully respond to the demands of the times ahead. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12622	Thank you. We have an answer, Anna Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12623	Thank you very much. ... My colleague, I'll fight for that, we've hoped for that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I'd say, "Don't be a hero when you can't spend it!" We listened to it, of course, "We'll be different to you, we're not who you are, we'll be more democratic, we'll be conducting broad public debates, we'll be the prime minister at the opening speech convincing us that he'll consult with the general and professional public on every bill, etc. After that, we got from the fact that the last piece of 78 laws seemed to me, 77 of them went through emergency procedures. So he didn't consult with nor the parliamentary representatives, nor did he give us the opportunity to break the law through two readings. And many laws would have been better quality if there had been an opportunity. Because it can't be fixed by amendments that are wrongly done. Therefore, they would be far more quality if they had passed the first debate, that objections and proposals were made, because it does not mean that, if someone is an opposition or ruling that must be necessary in respect of individual laws and the quality of legal texts on the other sides. So, I remember those speeches and I say, "Don't be heroic if you can't do it!"
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12624	Thank you. Ante Babic, replica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12625	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mrs. Lovrin, in your debate, you touched that relationship we had with the Parliament and our coming to the Parliament. But that actually offered me and I know that somewhere in Bundestag, Germany, you can't get into plenary sessions or some premises of Parliament unless you have one dress code of conduct. You have to come decently dressed, so this has offered me here in our House often watch our colleagues and colleagues come dressed in this House without a tie, without a suit. Our colleagues in the minivan and so it's definitely not good, so maybe that's something you can count on. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12626	Thank you. There's no response to the replica. I beg you to, please, refrain from commenting. We're done with an individual discussion. On behalf of the promoter, my fellow Members, please, on behalf of Vice President Josip Leko. Here you go, colleague Leko. Please!
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12627	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I, as a representative of the Proposer of the Amending and Complementary Decision, can indeed be pleased. The motion for a decision has raised really significant attention in the Croatian Parliament and a significant number of MPs have signed up to participate in the debate. Very good that the opposition came to life in the Croatian Parliament. That's where I think first of all about the HDZ club. That's a good thing. When such a club comes to life it is very good for parliamentary democracy and otherwise democracy is good. I hope that this life will be passed on to the future by now to the next law and the following laws, that it will last this lifetime, and that could contribute to the better solutions of this government. I think Business is really important matter because it organizes the work of representatives, clubs in the Croatian Parliament and the entire Croatian Parliament. So, it arranges how they are placed, they represent policies and protect the interests of those who chose us here. I have nothing to add from that point of view. And there's something else I have to say. It is absolutely legitimate to represent different attitudes, even opposite attitudes, even when it comes to the Rules of Procedure. From that point of view, I can truly again be satisfied as a representative of the motion. There were different very opposite views, although some have lost or gained visibility after they went into opposition as the Rules of Procedure should appear. But my God, that's good, that's good. Possible consensus, I think that if we accept that our legitimately different interests in the Parliament are to represent different political options, different policies, then for the political consensus around the Rules of Procedure we really need to work on a broader and different basis. Namely, what am I saying? Those who say that today's position is voting on the government's proposals, so no political order has changed in the Republic of Croatia. The structure, the constitutional structure of the government, remained the same. The relationship between the government and the Parliament is governed by the Constitution. The relationship between the Parliament and the President of the Republic was determined by the Constitution. The political position is determined by the Constitution and law. So it's not a word to show the position to reject the government's proposals. It's about cooperation, and that's what the Constitution says the authorities are cooperating. Therefore, it is about the preparation of acts, constructive preparation of acts and cooperation in preparation. When it comes to these institutes, the parliamentary institutes most discussed I remain on behalf of the promoter in that the institute, the parliamentary replica Institute, can and contains in itself a correction of the incorrect allegations, the possibility of correcting the incorrect allegations. Therefore, all those who have advocated to preserve the institution's correction of an incorrect allegation are not in my court to correct an incorrect quote so that they can use it because they will be able to use it in the replica, but are not to be able to respond to the replica, that is, the correcting of the incorrect quote. They are against the fact that everyone in the Parliament who comes into a position to speak, defends their policies, they have the same tools, they are against it. I think our position is and the proposal's view is that it is very important in the Parliament to allow everyone to have the same tools. This is much more democratic than being used by correcting an incorrect quote, especially when it is quacking or incorrect or when it has not been corrected at all by an incorrect allegation. And that was the most common case. Whether one of the MPs, I think a respected counterpart, Djakic, said it would be 30 replicas. What's the problem? Whoever wants to use 30 replicas will use 30 replicas. Living in Parliament is not unnecessary, as much as anyone will show their face through this institute and government and opposition and position. But we think it's much more democratic to leave everyone the same tool, the same responsibility in protecting their views and their policies. When it comes to employment in Parliament's Professional Service, only if we won't admit the facts. The Institute of Employment through clubs existed and we don't change anything. There was, and yet, I repeat that, it was too much to involve in the service and the state administration through the club, people how much? I don't know, we can check. But I don't think that's gonna get us anywhere. Now what are we doing? We're limiting that employment will continue until the term of the one who brought them here. Not even the mandate of a whole new political option, but the person who brings them with him, the official. So it's more open, fairer and more principled in my court. I think the record in articles 4 and 5 of the Amendment and Supplemental Decisions I think is very important, and I will now read this, quote "The MP has the right and duty to Article 14 of the current Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I repeat, the representative has the right and the duty," it always goes together "to participate in the meetings of the Parliament and to debate and vote on them." What is more logical than to determine who is coming and who is not coming to the meetings? What's the matter here? I don't see what's going on here? Well, he won't when the Parliament doesn't come to the assembly to get through the card, will he? So don't banalize things and get rid of them so I can say an idea that's meant to make a record of who's there for a reason and who's out there for no reason. There's nothing mysterious or controversial about it. That's what we've had so far in books. And what would be questionable if, instead of a pen, a valid representative card were put in place? ... That's another thing. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We can even cut costs and we'll be even more rigorous. Every morning we put the key in ours and we'll register. But I think it's important that we register. There's nothing wrong with that. I won't be long, I won't really be long. Well, it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. I think that really the breach of the Rules of Procedure deserves our more responsible relationship. If we accept it, and we cannot accept it, that the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, or Parliament's Rules of Procedure, arranges a lot of things and elements that are part of the constitutional matter, we must have a more responsible relationship with it, so when the chairman or someone else in the Parliament hurts the Rules of Procedure to have a serious weight. So if the chairman tells him that it is not a breach of the Rules of Procedure and it would be a turn if someone could say properly qualified, which would be the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, to assess whether it was really an infringement of the Rules of Procedure which the chairman or chairman did not respect for any reason, ignorance, ignorance, non-request, political options or so on. So our point of view, our desire in good faith and good intentions is to enable easier, faster and more dynamic presentation of our own views, the views of our own party, our own club, to be replicated by the representatives of the government, the authorities, and that they can also defend their views. Did we make it? We will see, before us is the time when we will be able to test solutions because we have a commitment to supplement and create new solutions for the Rules of Procedure because we simply get a new role in the supervision and control of the Government when we are a member of the EU. Thank you very much for your discussion, your suggestions. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System or tomorrow or the day after tomorrow morning, we will consider the amendments and determine and return them to the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12628	There are four incorrect allegations that we have on your exhibit. I wish they were replicas. The first one was Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12629	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Vice President Leco told the occasion that it cannot be passed by consensus because we exist from different political options. Since I was talking about consensus but I wasn't talking about consensus, and I didn't think of political options.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12630	Comrade Tudjman, forgive me, what are you correcting?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12631	I'm correcting the thesis that this cannot be brought, it's wrong to say that consensus should lay down a rule on how to make rules. That's what we're talking about. So this is the wrong interpretation of the discussion that was previously said.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12632	Thank you, too. Next for correction Josip Djakic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12633	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's Mr. Vice President and colleague Leko put out that this is how the Rules of Procedure's proposal gives us all the same tools. That's not true. We get nothing, we get nothing but a replica that we will be able to experience again and from representatives of the government or representatives of the ruling coalition. While, in another sense, the explicit assumption demanded that what was incorrect about the facts presented be corrected. It's a big difference, and you don't want to understand it at all. It's incorrect to keep saying that it's an equal opportunity and a tool for everyone. That's incorrect.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12634	Thank you. We differ in our opinions. Miss twilight. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12635	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Vice President Leko has several incorrect allegations, in my opinion, and I'll tell you one. It's incorrect that there's something in the matter that we had to register. It's absolutely incorrect because we're registering right now, and we're just recording ourselves with our own hand and with our own handwriting, and that's exactly how it should be relevant that we're here. I'm speaking electronically again doesn't mean that the representative is here, it just means that one day he'll be able to say, is I've been from 332 times all 332 times without being seen by a Parliament. That's one thing. And the second false allegation is that what you said is that there are no tools that would introduce this correction of our incorrect quote besides the introduction of the very replica of abolishing it, you can introduce another plate of answers to the correcting of the incorrect quote. You're going to give the width of one in this assembly, you're not going to cancel anything, but here you're going to give if it's so controversial, let it be an answer to the correcting of the incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12636	Thank you. And we have another correction to the incorrect assumption, I hope not. Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12637	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Vice President Leco said we all practically all had the same tools for parliamentary debate. But whether we want to or not to admit it is incorrect. From today's debate, it is clear that the correction of the incorrect quote and replica are instruments that are far more important to the opposition than to the ruling... you simply took one instrument from us for this parliamentary struggle and that is a fact that you cannot escape from. The second thing is to bring opposition deputies that, after theirs, they can always match him or a representative of the government who has an unlimited right to speak after any debate or ruling representative, I don't think he's right. And as for the living in HDZ, you hear that you've been offered this great life in the ruling coalition, we've had to take a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12638	Thank you. This is what we've exhausted the corrections and reported for discussion. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12639	We move to a statement on the final proposal for a decision on amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the text of the decision is over. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System submitted an amendment after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Article 166. I am giving the Rules of Procedure the motion to discuss and decide the amendment of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? And please score. I find that with 91 votes in favour, 42 against and 1 abstention, we have agreed to discuss the amendment of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. I ask the applicant's representative to explain the amendment. Here you go, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament and the chairman of the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12640	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The amendment of the Committee on the Constitution to Article 8 of the Decision concerns the importance of introducing in this Article 30a an additional provision that officials in clubs and posts shall be admitted until the date of termination of the term of office of each Assembly. Since the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system proposed to adopt the amendment of the SDP Club to delete the provision of Article 30a(8) of the valid decision, it was necessary to supplement the provision of Article 30b which will now become Article 30a. That's an explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12641	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Only representatives of the representatives' clubs can participate in the debate. Is there anyone here to discuss this? I'm closing the debate. I'm voting on the amendment committee. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the amendment has been accepted by 86 votes in favour, 6 against and 47 abstentions. This amendment thus becomes an integral part of the proposal for a decision. We're moving on to a statement on the other amendments. Amendment No. 1. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff of the Commission in accordance with
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12642	The Committee does not accept the amendment. Recital: the Committee has accepted the amendment of the SDP Representatives Club, which is proposed to delete the provision of the added Article 30a, has been partially consummated with this amendment. In view of the current Article 30b which is now becoming Article 30a, the Committee considers it necessary to make clear to the Rules of Procedure in question that civil servants are assigned to jobs in the representatives’ clubs for a specified period of time. In addition, the proposed addition of the Rules of Procedure is based on analogy with the provisions of the Law on State Servants relating to the deployment of civil servants to jobs in the Office of Ministers, the Office of the President of the Croatian Parliament, the Office of the Government, the Office of the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament and the Office of the Head of State Office.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12643	Thank you very much. I'm asking the subject of the amendment how this is manifested?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12644	So, given that most of the amendments are consummated by the amendment of the SDP's Club of Representatives and the amendment committee, we accept this explanation and we withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12645	The amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment No. 2. The HSU representative club does not accept Article 21. The MPs also got an explanation, didn't they?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12646	Thank you very much. But the Committee does this, in fact, promise special concern and debate on the committees' and working bodies' part-round that they will commit to the next amendment of the Rules of Procedure, which we hope will be by the end of the year. We believe that the current provision of the Rules of Procedure, with the necessary correction of this proposal, is the decision of the Committee on Labour and Social Partnership, i.e. the future Committee on Labour, Pension System and the Social Partnership, in an integrated way. Any overlaps between the departments of the competent authorities two or more on certain issues do not interfere with democratic debate, although this contributes to a better view of the problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12647	I ask the applicant of the amendment to plead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12648	So the fundamental motivation of the promoters was that we do not have too many overlaps and that not only should the work of this committee be considered by all committees, given the frequent changes that took place in the Rules of Procedure, i.e. in the establishment of new committees. That part's certainly not cleared up. I want to believe that this will be about the new opening of the Rules of Procedure, and I am therefore withdrawing this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12649	The amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment No. 4th of the same applicant to Article 25. The Committee also does not accept. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12650	Article 22
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12651	On number three.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12652	I'm sorry, Amendment No. 3. The Board of Representatives Club accepts most of the votes and becomes an integral part of the proposal for a decision. Amendment No. 4. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure incurred by the Commission in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. Please explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12653	The Committee considers that the provision in question should be maintained as well as the responsibility of the Committee on Family, Youth and Sport to discuss these issues because the protection of workers' rights is, in particular, a prerequisite for family planning in the country's demographic recovery.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12654	I ask the applicant of the amendment to plead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12655	I do not dispute the right of every committee to discuss any issue that is within the scope of its work, i.e. in the zone of its interest. However, I believe that protection at work is universally resolved and is covered by the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership, which includes both women and pregnant women and young women and everything else. Therefore, I believe that in this article it is as the jurisdiction of this second committee too high. But I'm saying, since we're going to meet again with this problem, I'm not going to complicate it, I'm withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12656	The amendment has been withdrawn. Moving to Amendment 5. A club of representatives of HSU which the Committee also does not accept. Please explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12657	Thank you very much. The Committee considers that Article 209 is amended as follows: The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, the final proposal, in an entirely orderly manner, the Institute of Replica. As for the proposal that speakers, so all MPs speak from the central speaker, the proposal deserves a broader discussion and a deeper analysis of the club in the Croatian Parliament, but also some technical changes. We estimate that this amendment will be analysed properly by the end of the year when the Rules of Procedure is amended. It has a significant number of reasons for accepting, but it has a number of reasons not to accept the amendment, but what it will be will be will be seen in the next amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12658	The applicant of the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12659	I am aware that this explanation is correct and that the replica institute is fully defined in Article 29, but I did not have when proposing this amendment, or this new creation, that all speakers speak from the speaker. I had nowhere to hang, since this amendment number 211 wasn't open, so the proposing board didn't open that amendment, so I hooked it up here, and now I'm gonna have to dump it and give up the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12660	Thank you very much. The amendment has been withdrawn. Amendment number 6 of the SDP representative club to Article 8 of the Committee has been accepted and it has become an integral part of the decision. Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final proposal for a decision, and in accordance with Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, for the adoption of the Rules of Procedure, require a majority of the votes of all MPs. So we need 76 votes. I'm asking who's in. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 86 votes in favour, 49 against and 1 abstentions have been made.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12661	We continue with the draft law, first reading of PZ No. 128, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the implementation of the budget implementation, first reading of the PZ No. 130, Proposal for a Law on the Termination of the Law on Public Executors, First Reading of PZ No. 129, Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on Public Execution Taxes, first reading of PZ No 131. A united debate will be held. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by post, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. And before I give my word to the Proposer, please choose your colleague Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12662	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So on behalf of the HDZ Club, I have to point out two facts. No one at the club has consulted or proposed us, it is your right as ruling, but I think that the elemental decency at the end of the day that we can also install it in our Rules of Procedure was to try to agree with us on a common debate. Since this was not done, the HDZ Club shall apply the provisions of Article 223(3). The Rules of Procedure, which states on the proposal of the Chair of the home working body or a representative club of two or more points of the established agenda, may be held by a joint discussion. Since we're against it, I'm asking for a vote on it. If that doesn't happen, let's discuss it individually. And this is just one example that when there's no agreement that we're creating unnecessary problems. It is just a follow-up to this debate on the Rules of Procedure that we want to point out how many life gaps we are not working on. Because look, there's no reason why colleagues from the ruling coalition have also proposed to the HDSSB, both the Labourists and the Independent Representatives, we could sit down for five minutes and arrange everything and there would be no problem. But just to point out the shortcomings of our Rules of Procedure, I brought this up. One bright example a few seconds after we finished the debate. We will not therefore, Mr. President, I am asking for a vote on this proposal of yours since we did not agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12663	I'm a colleague of Lesar's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12664	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Indeed, the practice of agreeing and united debates was something that was always respected. And secondly,... arrangements, and you have not made the proposal but a finding when two or more points of the agenda are united, then the time of the debate on behalf of the club is extended. You didn't say anything about that. I demand a vote on uniting the agenda points and if it is adopted, the time of the debate on behalf of the clubs will be at least 25 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12665	What, what are you looking for a break?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12666	No, the vote on the proposal to discuss four points of unity because it was not reached before the club agreement. And secondly, if such a conclusion is adopted that the time for debate on behalf of representatives' clubs is increased by 15 minutes by 25 minutes. Am I clear enough now?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12667	I didn't hear well, so I begged you to repeat. Thank you. I understand now.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12668	If this climate blows less, it might sound better.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12669	We're starting with the draft law, so there won't be a vote... Let's take a single point at a point if you're okay with it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Can we? All right. So we repeat, we have - Proposed executive law, first reading, PZ No. 128 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. I would like to ask the Deputy Minister here to present Mrs. Sandra Artuković-Kunšt on behalf of the Proposer to explain the proposal. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12670	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. So here we go in a single debate and we'll talk about our proposal for a new executive law. Starting from the priorities we have just talked about, we have set out to amend the implementing legislation by putting our citizens first because we have found that the 2010 executive law in those provisions where it proposes the introduction of public enforcement officers into the enforcement system represents such a category that it leads to such an increase in the costs of the executive procedure that it cannot go unnoticed and that there is no justification for anything that costs less or less today, or does not cost at all, the price it achieves. I will now present the calculation that we have made based on the data of FINA on the total number of received executive titles in FINA on the average number of each demand money that was requested, so we have projected the cost that would result from the introduction of public contractors and this cost would be 161 million 460 thousand kuna. This 161 million increased cost would be shared by 63 people selected as public contractors. Each of these individuals, by introducing this Law on Public Executive, would earn at an annual level of 2 million kunas individually, each of them. It is a cost that cannot be justified, especially when we consider the system that we have now worked out and where we have made it possible for what is now a cost for citizens to be abolished, reduced, or not to pay the cost. The situation in Croatia is now such that the executive procedure is governed by the application of two different laws. The 2010 executive law prescribed the termination of the '96 executive law. which had its changes and additions by 2008. The main provisions of the 2010 law did not cease to apply, it continues to apply and, in fact, the implementation of this '96 law is practically carried out today, with amendments until 2008. The provisions of the new 2010 Implementing Law have only partially entered into force, and that main provision that causes the discussion that we are talking about has been postponed in its application now until 15 October 2012. We're talking about this law we're proposing to conduct a public debate. In addition, we have been intensively negotiating with the European Commission and we have talked about this before, so we have received a positive statement from the European Commission in the sense that what we previously negotiated in 2009, or '10. and proposed in the new Implementing Law we are changing. It was not easy for the European Commission to explain our guidelines and where we are going, but with a lot of data, calculation, analysis and, in particular, of what I have initially cited to citizens when they are implementing the exercise, we have come to explain that our path to go represents a path that primarily protects Croatian citizens, and then, of course, implements those guidelines of the Council of Europe for effective implementation, and these are economical, acceleration and efficiency of the executive process, discharging courts and implementing the exercise without insulting the dignity of debtors. In the previous period, the executive procedure was improved by the introduction of an extrajudicial order. The Institute of Out-of-Court Implementation was introduced in the Croatian legal legislation in 2006 and provides that the creditor, as an executive, may directly request the implementation of the enforcement procedure with the bank which manages the main account of the perpetrators on the basis of a valid executive solution on the performance of the public notary, which determines the conduct of the transaction by the bank or generally on the property of the perpetrators. What has also directed our action towards this proposal and justified the change of the decision on the implementation system as introduced in Croatia is the Law on the implementation of the budget implementation. Since we have an individual debate, I will not talk about the law in detail now, but it is also important to say that this law was passed in 2010, it has been in force since 1 January 2011, and this law has actually directed our executive system towards FINA, according to so-called. Agency business. In European legal systems, enforcement is determined by different systems, one of them is the Agency's exercise and it is applied in Scandinavian countries. The system of public perpetrators that we have postponed, which is from which we are now giving up the proposal for an executive law is being applied in the Netherlands, Belgium, France, so countries that are not traditionally close to us. And there's another third system, a system of judicial enforcement that we've had so far. We consider the FINA and the Agency’s implementation to be much closer to our legal system because FINA is actually related to what the SDK used to do or later ZAP. Therefore, we have legal or systematic instruments on the basis of which we can upgrade the Agency's performance and we believe that this is possible and desirable in the light of the circumstances adopted by the Act on the Implementation of the Implementing Act of 1. January 2011. There have been talks here on the need to monitor the impact of previous laws, so exactly the effect of the Act on implementing the implementation as a very positive and good law adopted in the previous composition we consider to be the one to be upgraded in accordance with the proposals that we have made. One of the tasks we have taken into account in the implementation of the Council of Europe's recommendations on the implementation and establishment of a clear legal framework for the executive procedure. This Implementing Law is based on the one put off by the new Implementing Law in 2010 and we have drawn up a new proposal based on these provisions and upgraded it with these instruments that allow for more uniform treatment on the basis of executive documents and on the basis of credible documents. In our legal system, we now have a situation that it is easier for an executive to charge the demand if it is charged on the basis of a credible document than on the basis of an executive document. In order to be more precise, if the party has an account which is not paid by maturity, the public notary may take the decision on the performance and may go beyond the court order and charge itself much faster than that party which has established its claim in the court proceedings. If she conducted a litigation procedure that is what our situation, which we are of course aware of, lasted a few years after she received the ruling on monetary demand, she should initiate an executive procedure and then in this process to realise her monetary demand which may also take time and we have witnessed that and sometimes for several years. We find that inadmissible and we see no obstacles. On the contrary, that is what We have suggested. Therefore, the performance of the executive documents can also be direct and can be implemented directly. This is a major novelty for the executive process, and I think it will improve considerable action and lead to what the Council of Europe's recommendations are. Therefore, acceleration, efficiency and dispensation of courts in carrying out the performance. A party having a verdict on monetary demand may directly implement the implementation through the FINA. And we did not disbursement the citizens of these new 161 million kunas that should be paid through public perpetrators, but we charged them with a special extra cost in the procedure of the exercise now being carried out for executive documents, and according to our proposal should not be implemented. We have therefore concluded that neither the existing legal path nor the provisions of the 2010 Implementing Law constitute a simplification of the enforcement procedure, so in this sense we have proposed this step, which is called direct enforcement on the basis of a request relating to monetary demand. In this regard, we have extended the basics by which direct payment can be made in the Law on the Implementation of the Act, and in the Implementing Law itself, we have laid down a procedure for such direct payment. The party will, when it receives a ruling on monetary demand before the FINA, fill in a particular form indicating what claim they wish to collect and guarantee under criminal responsibility for the accuracy of the data it has made. In order to prevent the abuses that were true we have developed systems of information integration and networking of public records offices and financial agencies. We also consider it a very important category that will allow for a higher degree of security, creating a register for debtors. In addition to simplifying the implementation of the budget implementation, we have simplified the procedure concerning the implementation of this remaining part of the movement and real estate. We have significantly intervened in the procedure of implementing the exercise of the movement because it is the stage of the procedure that comes after the party could not be charged on account. So it's the perpetrator who either has no account or his account has been blocked for a long time. We are now coming into a zone of persons who are actually economically at risk and we believe that the implementation of an exercise on movement should be a process that takes as short as possible and in which it cannot be, must not bring an perpetrator into a position to discredit or to bring his dignity down. That is why we have put the accent on the part of the believers in the process. Therefore, a believer or an executive should be present at the actions concerning the implementation of the exercise of the movement precisely in order to definitely decide whether this is the procedure which can charge for his demand at all. And if so, then he'll be reduced to as few stores as possible. We have received complaints that we have increased the cost by such an arrangement, since a lawyer should participate with an executive in such a shop, and that is not necessarily necessary. Therefore, an executive shall not, with legal assistance, be admitted to the list or to the plying of the movement of the perpetrators. We have significantly relieved the courts of this bill, unlike the 2010 law, which had the solution to deal with legal medicines concerning the work of public enforcement officers by first-degree Municipal Courts. These are the courts that are normally the most burdensome and their further burden on the legal remedies in connection with the actions of the judicial perpetrators is really unnecessary and this was the easiest way to explain it to the European Commission in terms of reasons that justify the change of concept we have proposed. We've also amended the provisions on real jurisdiction. So, instead of performing in front of the Trade Courts, we introduce the exercise before the Municipal Courts. This is not as important a novelty as it sounds precisely for the reason that the existing executive provisions can be entrusted to the Municipal Courts to carry out certain actions in the executive procedure before the Commercial Courts. And trade courts use this legal option and trust certain actions to municipal courts. This is, therefore, a change that will not in practice lead to greater difficulties, but what is significant will lead to the arrangement of our system because we actually have a situation in which two different cases are conducted in relation to the same executive procedure and we are numerically showing more cases than in reality Croatian courts are dealing with them. The provisions of the proposed law provide for adequate control of socially sensitive activities and adequate protection of the dignity of debtors, as well as legal certainty and transparency of such proceedings through jurisdiction in the remaining proceedings other than the extrajudicial exercise of money. And with regard to the implementation of the money that represents almost two-thirds of the executive procedures, transparency is provided by those two tools that we consider the most significant and which can lead to exactly the achievement of the objectives as recommended by the Council of Europe. These tools are a unique account register and an OIB. These two categories of connection make it possible for the execution to be effective. Of course, the question will be, why haven't all the executions been carried out? Well, they weren't just spent because the perpetrators didn't have enough resources to carry out the execution. However, this goes beyond the limits of the executive laws, i.e. the enforcement system, cannot, by one law, be placed in a position to have sufficient resources to charge all claims. But this law can create a system that enables an efficient, efficient and fast performance that is not expensive and which exercises the right of a believer on the one hand to ensure that his search is carried out and on the other hand by the debtors to ensure that his dignity is fully protected. And of course, if we're talking about the debt industry that was often mentioned in the argument earlier, it's just the debt industry, the interest size, and what follows because of the long-term implementation of the performance of the category that burdens the debtor the most. The debtor is, after his obligation has been established by power and enforcement, in the interest that the demand is charged as soon as possible and that he does not, in that sense, pay the heavy interest which increases the cost. Of course, it is in his interest not to pay the extra cost that would be introduced by introducing a public enforcement service, which, with such a proposal as we have agreed, there is no such cost. We had and considered that 63 persons, i.e. our colleagues were appointed public perpetrators, but by bringing their interest, so I am talking about 63 persons, individuals, in relation to the interest of all Croatian citizens and the fact that by introducing public enforcement officers, the cost of the exercise would increase to 161 million kunas, however, decided that protection of citizens should be more important here than protecting the individual interests of public perpetrators. And therefore, we gave up this system of conduct through public perpetrators. As I said, the European Commission has supported our proposal. After detailed analysis, the data and what is presented we have received a completely affirmative view of our bill as it is before you and what we are only obliged to do is monitor the effect, i.e. the impact of the implementation of this law. So I fully agree with what was previously said that the effects of previous laws should be monitored. This will certainly be one of the laws to be followed in this regard. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12671	Thank you very much, well-respected Deputy Minister of Justice Mrs. Sandri Artuković-Kunšt, and a correction of the incorrect allegations has been reported for her presentation. Dear representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12672	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I'm correcting the incorrect assumption that public contractors represent a category that collects the executive procedure on the burden of citizens by 161 million kuna that will share 63. First of all, it's an incorrect quote because here I am reading one of the same information from the Ministry of Justice hope that not the journalist Slavica Lukic invented it in an article, where she says that this prey is what she calls it, and she received data from the Ministry of Justice, is 75 million. So we're hitting on those 75, 168, etc. However, I might have believed all that information that Madam Deputy Minister said it was a calculation. That's not a calculation, that's one aggregate that tells us we've calculated 161 million. We'd believe more if we had exact indicators on exactly the examples. Yeah, for example. I have several examples with precise amounts for court fees and
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12673	Time, time. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12674	Thank you very much. I'll continue in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12675	Thank you, too. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Board of the Croatian Parliament want to take the floor? The Legislative Committee? The Justice Committee? Nothing. I'm opening a debate. We are going to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The first is the Croatian Labour Club and the respected representative Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12676	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister. We're talking about the Executive Act, I went to elementary school there in that black state long ago, and we had history books where capitalist Yugoslavia was described in one picture by two finances, two gendarmes dragged by a cow, a peasant grabs his head, and the children there are crying as needed. And of course we made fun of it because at that time something like that couldn't have happened. And that was comical for us. Today we shouldn't afford to talk about the performances as cold as we speak. Namely, there are two types of performances. It is not the same if a million-euro house is being completed by some Mr. Pevec or another Pevec, or a pension of 2 thousand kuna that has not paid a television subscription for a few months or I don't know how much that is carried out by a respected Zagreb lawyer. It's not the same. Maybe it's the same procedure, maybe it's the same law, maybe the same principles, but it's definitely not the same. And we shouldn't talk about the whole thing that easily. She said the deputy minister said that 70% of the commission was cash. So, 70% of the executions were just these workers who took credit for the boss, did the boss fail, fled to Bosnia, workers of the quarry of one in Slavonia, and today they repay the loan to the boss. These are the performances that happen. These are the living people who are left without anything. Sometimes they're guilty, everyone has to pay their debts, but sometimes they're not so guilty. The aim of this law according to here in the opening section is economics, acceleration and efficiency without insulting the dignity of the perpetrators. I found a lot of arguments for these first three objectives and for economics is better at less cost than what was the previous law to speed up, of course, for the effectiveness of course, to protect or prevent the insult of the perpetrators I found Article 6 where it reads "in implementing the exercise and insurance will take care of the dignity of the performer or the opponent of the insurance and that the execution or insurance for him will be as little less unfavourable as possible". From this whole book, that sentence speaks of this one who didn't pay for the TV subscription and how it's going to be spent in the whole thing. It's also for a businessman if his business has failed, and especially for an ordinary man if his world fails if that happens to him it's a tragedy and that's how it should be looked at. Why is it not good to privatise the implementation of the exercise of public enforcement? Because the tragedy cannot and should not be privatised, because the state must stand there firmly on its back to protect as many people as possible who have sinned, who have gone into credit and have lost their jobs, the failed firm has lost their jobs, but those who did not, who entered because of other people's malversions, because of the interest, which is why I know what, because of the foreign exchange clause, because of the thousands of things that happened without their guilt. If the state won't protect them and then why the state? And the whole job of the state has to be held in its hands just because of these people. The role of FINA in the whole thing has been to send an executive order to banks so far and block accounts. FINA, of course, would neither have been able to deal with the fact that social aid accounts, child benefits, I don't know what everything is and what isn't. FINA simply blocked the account and then that man, and yet please remember who these people are. This man who has 2.5 thousand wages and a child's allowance on her and has not paid something, let him be guilty, let him pay, sit on his entire salary. He is expected to come to FINA to find out why he was sitting down because the postmen couldn't find him, so it was hanged somewhere on some kind of ad board of courts that solution for the execution. It is expected to come to open a protected account and to carry out 2/3 of its salary and child's allowance on this protected account. Of course, it would take each of us 15 days to do it. Of course, an uneducated man who has a thousand and one care in his head as hard as we are here can think of it for two, three months. In the meantime, he sits on full incomes and now a little demagogy and pulsism and his children are hungry at home, which is true. And once he gets to the protected account, then he won't get back what's gone, he ate the donkey wolf, it's gone. But now, FINA to this second law, which will now be the turn to complete the money, will informically connect with who needs everything so that these protected accounts can be opened immediately and this will not happen. For this job, the FINAs will take a year to build a joint database with no idea how many entities but no more than a hundred in Croatia. Is it really a year's worth? It's impossible to do that in a short time? I have a feeling I could do it in a month? All right. They'll know what they can't do. When it comes to the protection of dignity in the process of enforcement in the last 2.3 months, two people from the sea, one from Rab, one from Arbanus near Zadar, who are both in the final procedure in one ugly, ugly, ugly way almost told by a fraud, lost money and no real estate. We all know these cases and the papers were at the end of the ballad. Nothing about all this here. In the status description, this is not listed as a problem. Not listed as a problem, let's say the woman took a mortgage on her house, bought construction material at the craftsman, the craftsman didn't deliver the building material, she sued him and the procedure went slowly, slowly. But the execution on her house went very quickly and sold her the house. They sold her house on a drum. She expects this process with a craftsman to win it and will probably get it and will get that couple of hundred thousand kunas or million kunas I don't know which one it is back it will only get no home anymore. Now it's not definitely a procedure, a complete court case that preserves the dignity and interest of the workers. And speaking of FINA and keeping citizens' interests, I don't know if you know that FINA protected accounts their opening and their use and any service, every paper in the process of the execution charges these same people who took it all away from? FINA is a state agency, here submits a report on the agenda is now a report. I don't know if anyone's going to ask the director, Director of FINA what his name is, which is it. I'll ask him, ask him what it means and what level of morality he's working on. Articles 3 and 8 The laws speak a little bit specifically about the delivery of a solution. They're very complex all worked out in detail. However, there is a procedure that very rarely, at least, how many cases I know gives the right result. Very rarely in time, the perpetrator gets the solution to know what happened to him. Further, Article 18 discusses the availability of data, who is all obliged to give information about the perpetrator to interested persons. They're all mandatory. Even under Article 42, banks receive these data before the power of attorney, so that the perpetrator does not accidentally come up with a plan and empty the account. So everyone gets this information and everyone gets it mandatory and it's being prevented by punishment if they don't get the data, and nothing's been prevented if the perpetrator doesn't get the data. So I know the specific cases that a man came to the house of the movement to take away, he owed several thousand kunas for contributions. The warrant didn't say at all where he could pay for it, the man told the executive, listen, but I want to do it now in cash, just tell me where to pay and the executive didn't know it. But he managed to get him out of the house, and I got him to go to the President of the Court and he went to the President of the Court and it all worked out. And the president of the court was actually appalled by the fact that the warrant didn't say what the law predicted, it didn't say you could pay for that and that one, or we'll take you to the TV and the couch from the house. The order of charge in the business provides that the tax and the rest of the State's fees are in front of the creditors, so let's say in front of the banks that gave the loans, and that's usually the case, and otherwise in all other regulations, the state takes its own billing championship. I'm curious about how it could have happened, and that's what the previous law said, how it could have happened in the Arbanas that the man's house went to the drum because of the tax debt. It's okay, he didn't pay his taxes, the man's aware of it. And then on that money that he got sitting down to the bank as collateral that he'd pay off the loan for that house. He lost his house and still owed his taxes, and the money he got for selling the house more than what he owed the tax was in the bank as a guarantee to the bank. What logic that is and how it is possible we don't know, but it obviously needs to be asked by a court in Zadar. In the event of an enforcement of FINA's cash assets, if he is already charging everything, the perpetrator would not take the obligation to directly inform the person whose account has been ordered, what has happened to him and why it has happened to him. If you want to at least protect a man's dignity so much that he doesn't find himself insecure when he comes into the bank and finds that he can't get the money he knew yesterday that they were on his account, at least let him get a piece of the paper notice, that's what happened, you didn't do what you needed, you didn't pay the debt, you didn't pay the loan, you didn't pay the TV subscription, you didn't do what you needed, so we sat down on your account. I almost don't know a man who's had a run-in who knew the exact moment that actually hit him and hit him from which side. As far as Croatian Labourists and myself are concerned, it seems to me that it could function effectively. What he's missing is this human part of humanity. In hard times we live, every day it gets harder, it's hard for people who make good money...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12677	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12678	And those at the bottom of the social ladder are desperate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12679	Time, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12680	Let's not insult them.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12681	Thank you very much. The next club is the HDSSB club and respected representative Josip Salapic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12682	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I welcome the representative of the government, my colleagues and my fellow MPs. It's a little late today, and we've extended the debate on the Rules of Procedure, but maybe this is and this is really more important than the questions we've been discussing for five hours. Why is it so known to those who suggested this. I'm going to use the possibility, and since the laws that follow after this are also related to this proposal of the executive law, I'm going to say something about what we said we're going to discuss point by point. It's really about talking together, because we didn't agree on it saying that the Rules of Procedure didn't work because the opposition had to be agreed before, and this is a more important law, too, it was supposed to be the reverse Mr. Vice President, this was supposed to be the first item of today's agenda, and the Rules of Procedure is the last, so whoever stays, stays. What is not good is not a good thing to talk about this sensitive issue as if it were some other citizens of another country, another country, not the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It is certainly a condition for Croatia to find itself in a crisis and recession caused by economic problems, people to remain jobless, jobless, family, students, pupils in primary schools, secondary schools, colleges, hard to live, cannot be educated. Parents have raised loans, some have raised loans for their children's education, some are truly innocent of the situation in which they have found themselves not by their own fault but by their guilt and time and life and circumstances in which the Republic of Croatia has found itself in this difficult time of economic crisis. This is a sensitive question, this question needs to be looked down on. Why and how the European Commission has given a positive opinion on this law will show time. It took a long time for the Government to convince the European Commission that this Implementing Law is better than the previous one, that this Implementing Law will bring better results and that the abolition of public enforcement, and we must not forget that this Law on Public Executors in the Croatian Parliament, with 111 votes, so we voted for it by the majority of MPs in the Parliament. The law was a condition for the conclusion of the negotiations, for Croatia's entry into the European Union. As the SDP voted in favour of the law, both the HDZB and HDZ and all those sitting in this House voted. This law was a condition for Chapter 23. And what I am and as a lawyer to colleagues who have now found themselves in such a stupid situation, which is that they also citizens of the Republic of Croatia and have applied to a competition for public contractors based on the positive legal rules of our country, that they have invested their financial and personal resources, some have raised and loans to... Named to go through heavy testing. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In order for us to say no today, we do not need them and that the Government has announced the abolition of public enforcement before it has received the opinion of the European Commission. Therefore, it was known in advance that public perpetrators will not survive, and we found some 163 colleagues at the stage of shame, but they are experts in the area in which they work and they have received trust above all from the Republic of Croatia, our government and the state to work in the interest of Croatia. And so it's not good to treat these people like that, we're sure some of them won't be able to repay their financial resources that they've invested. One part might be yes, and most of it isn't. What happened and this is a bad message from the Croatian Parliament that we must assure the European Commission that something we have adopted together, so with 111 votes, in terms of Croatia's entry into the European Union that this is no longer good, that we have better solutions. Whether these solutions are better will show time, but it should be kept in mind that neither the citizen nor the person who lives hard cannot pay his obligation should be treated humanely. That's where I fully agree. But also, if the will of most then in the Croatian Parliament at a crucial moment was to pass the law, and it was then we might have to talk a little differently, not that something was too much for us or that we didn't need it. Maybe the solution is better but maybe it's not better, it'll show time. But out of solidarity with colleagues who have indeed shown in the competition of certain knowledge, they have shown the will to work for the Republic of Croatia on this, so it is still important to take care of it. Is that really the cost of 161 million kuna we don't know. And as my colleague Lovrin said, it's going to cost 75 million of these executive procedures. Is it so or not it is a serious topic and should have taken serious and serious calculations to deal with it. That the execution should be effective, that it should be effective, that it should be effective, it was also known from before and by law which is now in the delay of the one who was from '96. It's been like that for years, and it's a rule that applies to everyone. We agree that certain results of the involvement of FINA in the procedure have proved to be good in some cases. And as for someone, I have data that more than 64%, namely 750640 cases of execution before the FINA remain unsolved. So that's 64.4%. Is this performance through FINA like a shorter procedure faster and better good, this data isn't that great. I don't know if it's true, but I've also read it in preparation for a media debate and I need to worry about whether it's really the information we're dealing with here when it comes to FINA and this extrajudicial procedure of whether it's true. What happens to establishing a clear legal framework? Therefore, establishing a clear legal framework on this law is a necessary need. It is about the interests of the Republic of Croatia. That courts, primarily trade courts, should be relieved, so these cases should be transferred to the Municipal Courts, which may be the proposal that is being asked. What will happen to the work of the Municipal Courts? Has it really been shown that these executions before the Trade Courts have caused such a long-term delay and resolution of these cases. Therefore, the state should definitely be satisfied in the procedures of the exercise, but there should also be citizens who have found themselves neither guilty nor obliged before some of these cases to have some protection. It is said here that both the European Commission and the Council of Europe have asked in their opinion that this human part, that equality, therefore, of the perpetrators and the executives should be evened according to the new legislative proposal. We at the HDSSB club, therefore, are not against the adoption of an executive law that will enforce the interests of the state and charge what certain wrong moves of individuals need to be charged to the state. We definitely don't mean ordinary citizens, workers, people who have lost their jobs either in the private sector, or in the state sector, in any situation where neither the guilty nor the debtors have found themselves in these situations. Therefore, it should be kept in mind that our Executive Law has been good so far, that there have been problems, that the involvement of FINA led first and foremost to one inhumane act, and that social benefits, maternity benefits, therefore without control, were based on the exercise and were found in a difficult situation precisely by those who, because of the situation in which Croatia was found both the economy and jobs should not be found. First of all, the motion for the Government of the Republic of Croatia should be taken into account by the ministry. Is it really going to be like, in the light of this first reading of the law, it's written, and it's explained that we don't know. But we believe that all the opinions and all the proposals made to the European Commission are not exactly as the promoter said today because there was a public debate and controversy about the abolition of public perpetrators, about the situation in which Croatia as a member of the European Union was found to be, and that is that, in a certain situation, by fulfilling Chapter 23 together, we passed laws because they were of interest to the Republic of Croatia. The arrival of the new SDP and coalition government announced in advance that what is not good would be abolished. whether the data are accurate is not the same as to say 85 million or 161 million, and it is not the same to talk about the success of FINA in executive procedures, and then to have information that more than 760,000 cases remain unsolved. I think the legislator should define what is really true and really what we need to know as representatives. And the HDSSB club will provide support in that part of the law when it comes to the interests of the Republic of Croatia, but in that second part of humanity we will follow what the promoter said whether or not it is so and until the final vote the club will give its opinion and its conclusion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12683	Thank you, Your Honor. The next club is the Social Democratic Party of Croatia and the esteemed representative of Peđa Grbin. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12684	I would like to thank the esteemed Mr. Vice President, the esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed deputy minister. Here we are above all the Executive Law, but after it and three other laws that represent one set that should finally regulate the Executive Procedure and implement the implementation of the exercise in the Republic of Croatia. For the past 20 and more years, we have witnessed that the performance in the Republic of Croatia, that is, the formerly called execution, is not working. We should not run from it, and we have all worked in one way or another to improve the system of execution. Why? Because it's one of the fundamental institutes of the modern state, which is the institution that guarantees payment when someone doesn't want to pay, which guarantees the execution of judgments. Without such an institute, no state can be called legal without such a system. That is why the executive law and the laws that follow it require great attention. We heard today that a law like this should not be discussed at this hour. I am of the opinion that the time at which we are discussing does not matter because everyone is interested in everything that we are talking about. After all, this law, or the ministry's proposals, has been made available to the public for several months. There have been major consultations, many in the ministry either sent their letters to us, their comments, and the law since the first proposed variant has experienced changes and has come in this form that we have before us. So it's about a very thoughtful law and a set of laws that apply two things. One is the efficiency of the execution, and the other is the protection of the perpetrator's person. It's my opinion that no matter what we're about before, what we've just heard about is the efficiency of this exercise must have a championship. For the simple reason that an executive procedure occurs when the debtor does not fulfil his or her obligations. That is why, in the executive procedure, by protecting the debtor, protecting his personality, by protecting his dignity, we must allow the trustee's superior to be charged. To this end, a set of laws was adopted in 2010 which included, above all, a new Executive Act which included the Law on Financial Requirements and the Law on Public Executors. To say that this executive reform was missed is wrong. However, this executive reform has produced a good, quality system. And that's the agency's system. A system that in our legal system has a tradition. We've heard it before from SDK, ZAP, etc. A system that proved to be good. Of course, that system had a whole series of children's diseases, but in these years and a half, they're in an important part of the override. The proposed laws that follow have additional instruments to help address the observed problems, observed children's diseases. This system is being built on this law. Why? It was presupposed, when it was yet to go, that a decision made by a public notary was delivered to the out-of-court. Of course, when she becomes all-powerful and all-powerful. I'm asking the question why, and this is suggested here, wouldn't the same importance of what kind of solution has been made by the public notary in the short procedure have a verdict often preceded by a long-term, expensive, painful litigation? The verdict that's after that, so I'm going to say over 90% of the cases have been given control of the County Court. The system we are changing predicted that such a verdict must first be addressed in the previous system of court and to public perpetrators in order to determine the purpose. We hereby cast out one totally unnecessary step, one verdict controlled by the court, which was brought by the court, we can deliver to the agency. There are no more costs of a lawyer where I may not be happy about it personally as a lawyer, but we will be one expense, no court costs, due to a fee that was previously paid to make a decision on the matter and based on an executive ruling. There is no cost of an perpetrator, nor for an executive, nor for a doer. And there's no time to waste before. Weeks, sometimes months, that courts based on such judgments because they had been conducting the procedure for years have made a new solution to the outcome. But it's just one of the segments of this bill. We have other important ones, and the most important one is the one that I've kind of set up, and that's the question of judicial perpetrators. And that's where we come in, I'm sorry to inform the perpetrators, and that's where we come in, and that's where we come in, that's protection of personality, protection of the rights of debtors. My colleague Vuljanić said that, and I have to agree with him. There is a limit to privatization of public services that the state must not cross. Privatisation of justice, privatization of a judicial system is, in my opinion, a limit that we cannot cross, and this was envisaged. It was intended to establish a para-state service that entered and seized property for others in the name of the state. We're not going to throw away the assets by this because we can't, because we can't, but it's going to be a court case. And no matter what I do in the Croatian judiciary, I still have much more confidence than in a private service that is led exclusively by its own interest and the goal of earning from its work. We can't do that and we can't let that happen. And for this very reason, we must also pass this law that lays the groundwork for those three laws that we will discuss after this. We've often heard in the media that these people are called sheriffs. It may sound rough, but the fact that in some legal systems, it seems to me in Canadian and Irish, they're wearing that exact name. So I don't see why it would be controversial to call them what their name is in some countries. Furthermore, this may sound cold, but we also need to talk about it, this law regulates itself in a much better way than it has ever been a matter of jurisdiction. Both real and local for the conduct of executive proceedings both in front of the court and in front of the public records. In particular, the executive procedure shall be transferred to the jurisdiction of municipal courts in the bulk of the work. I find that very high-quality. The Honorable Deputy Minister said and so far, the Trade Court in Trade cases would have determined the performance, the part where it was to be forwarded before the bank, and then the FINAs would have done it because it was simple, it was essentially a postal service, and when it had to be carried out a little more complicated procedures such as real estate, the conduct of the movables would have given way to municipal courts. And what did that mean? We have two active cases instead of one and we have time from the moment the Commercial Court receives the file, makes a decision, determines what to do and then directs it to the Court of Justice's exercise. This is what the practice has shown as a bad change. We leave the proceedings to municipal courts, and I believe that this is a very good and good solution that will lead to a reduction in the number of cases, so in one part, to speeding up and increasing the effectiveness of the executive procedures. However, there is also a regulated question which has proved to be quite controversial in practice, which is the question before which public notary we can launch an executive procedure when it is launched in front of public notaries. And it's regulated that it can only be with that public notary that's in that county where the perpetrator has his seat. And that's good because, at least in a way, we're making it easier for the perpetrator, and on the other hand, it's natural that the executive procedure is conducted exactly where the property of the perpetrator is assumed, and t is in the rules where his seat is. Furthermore, a very important change in this law is a matter of value by which real estate can be sold. We have so far had various situations of 1/3 values, so in some segments and situations where real estate seems to me to be on the third state could be sold without a lower price limit. Do you know what that meant? It was a punishment, often revenge against a debtor who had previously failed to pay his debts, it was a situation where many for 10 or 20% of the value of the property bought the same, and we cannot allow it. That is why it seems to me that setting the lower limit for another auction at one half of the value of real estate is of course not an ideal solution for those who fail to settle their debts but is significantly better than the one we have so far. Not to be too long, because the esteemed Deputy Minister put it very nicely. This set of laws executive laws and laws that we will discuss after him is not a revolution. It represents the evolution of the executive system that we have today in the Republic of Croatia. This executive system is not ideal he has much smaller but the fact that through all these changes through all the periods through all the turns that we had and finding new solutions he was still getting better than what we had when we started. I have no illusions that this will be the final amendment to the executive law. Most likely, in 2, 3 or 4 years, it will show that something needs to be changed, but this law is certainly better than we've had so far, and incomparably better than that system that was proposed and that we adopted with all its best interests in 2010. It was said before that there was a great consensus about this law in this House, I agree. But I also agree that if we see something wrong, that it is not good, that we have not only the right but also the obligation to change it, regardless of the negotiations that have been held with the EU. With all due respect, the Republic of Croatia is still an independent country and if we feel that something is wrong, then we have an obligation to fix it and that we were right this time has proved the European Commission's confirmation that we have received. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12685	Thank you, too. Next up for debate on behalf of the HDZ club Ana Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12686	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So is the European Commission's assessment that after a long time has given us a positive opinion or a green light for this amended executive law actually doesn't say anything that we're right and that's good. Equally, the European Commission has given equal green light to the 2010 Executive Act, of course, because there is no acquis in this area, so there is no directive on how to implement the exercise and what must be incorporated into domestic legislation in terms of enforcement is already only in negotiations and in the negotiating position we are obliged to pass the law as we adopted in 2010 and because we in Croatia then said that we would achieve what we were aiming at in Chapter 23 and this is an impartial, professional, effective judiciary in which it certainly belongs. Because the administrative and court case for the citizen is not that we have repeated it many times is not finished by having the paper in hand an executive verdict, an executive order based on a credible document or an executive administrative act, but when he in nature has it right or that material benefit and gets it. In 2010, we adopted the Executive Act, which introduced the public enforcement service. And it was once after a year lost after a year of preparation for the service. Publicly speaking, it is not good and in the pre-election promises of the present is not a ruling coalition, one of the great things was the promise to end the public executioner. As long as we're talking like this, that's why I told the Deputy Minister to throw himself at millions. The calculation of 161 million as much as public contractors would cost Croatian citizens I say it is not true because this data from the Ministry of Justice is 75 million so now I don't know what we've calculated and how we've calculated it. If we had the costs correctly calculated on a particular example with court fees to public enforcement fees, the costs of FINA and the costs of lawyers then we could have a quality chat. I here, for example, have a number of calculations and given the type of performance on movables, on real estate, on money that exactly makes comparisons between the costs of implementation with public contractors and in a system like today's Implementing Law, it turns out that all costs in the public enforcement system are lower except in claims up to a thousand kunas on cash and up to 65% but how? The Department of Justice's calculations probably did not calculate the expense of lawyers and the cost of public enforcement. Why the expense of a lawyer? Therefore, here is the last of these amendments to the Implementing Law. Says the Deputy Minister, so it's not necessary for a citizen to get a lawyer. Of course, it doesn't even have to be done when he's exercising his right in a litigation procedure to take it, or to take it as a assembly of charges, so a citizen can write that suit himself. But he takes it because he doesn't know how to do it alone. The same way he's going to carry out the commission, he's not going to be a citizen, he's not going to know the basis of an executive I.D. but he's going to hire a lawyer, and that lawyer's got his own tariff. Well, there probably wasn't a lawyer's expense in all these calculations. And then when I'm talking, and I'm not happy to say it, I don't like to say it like this, when we speak in the categories of prey that the HDZ has secured 75 million kuna for 68 officials, so it's not the HDZ that provided this Croatian Parliament to 2/3 of the majority. And then why don't we say this in such an ugly way, and probably it comes from these 161 million costs that will fall on the back of citizens, why don't we talk about the spoils of lawyers, why we're not talking about the spoils of public notebooks, why we're not talking about the theft of courts in the end, because courts are also paying court fees, the same ones that are included in the costs of public contractors, and those fees, and when they're being charged by the public executioner, are part of the tax of the state budget, as is the case with the public notary. So, I wouldn't talk and I don't think it's good to talk about these categories of prey and deceive the public about some enormous costs that would be thrown on the back of citizens. In any case, a new Implementing Law was adopted in 2010, and a new Implementing Act was adopted. Important improvements have been created in the application of this law for almost two years now as regards this law on execution on money. I'd say one more thing, that's good, but let's not glorify FINA now through the proposal for this new executive law. Why, because the FINAs took more than a year, we had to amend the law even though it was technical matters, so when FINA carried out the duties on those incomes of citizens who shouldn't have been the subject of the exercise. It was only because in the implementation, in the technical implementation of that law, it was not a bad law, the law was good, but the one who carried it out technically did not have a good time, so to do so we had to do some interventions. Therefore, this is to say that the excellent effect of FINA is in the implementation of the performance and that it is said by the Proposer in an explanation somewhere that the good system of enforcement is now broken by the adoption of the 2010 executive law, so it somehow does not correspond with the data because the unsolved executives from year to year grow, so if the system is good they should not, the number of outstanding executives should not grow. And as far as the agency's performance is concerned, the simplest and easiest performance is the performance on the financial assets carried out by FINA. According to the Ministry of Justice, a total of 414 000 were successfully implemented in these cases conducted by FINA, out of a million 165 50 executive cases. Why, because there was simply no funds in the accounts of the perpetrators and because it was successful to complete and appease all the creditors of 35.6%. What happens when they pass without success and carry out through FINA, they all end up as executions in the courts carried out on movables and real estates. It has been said somewhere else that in the public enforcement system it is not possible to ask FINA and the employer directly to implement the exercise, so it is simply not true because such a possibility exists in the 2010 Executive Act. There were also a lot of speeches and talk about public perpetrators as some violent persons, I would tell half-criminals what ton is spoken of. Here we are, and we just heard from a colleague of the coat of arms that some parastate bodies are going to break into apartments, etc. There was talk of protecting the dignity of the perpetrators. I read the provision of the 2010 implementing law, the law says: when implementing enforcement and insurance, it will pay attention to the dignity of the perpetrators and opponents of the insurance and to the fact that the insurance is carried out as little as possible. Paragraph 2: a public executive may carry out the performance in the executing home only with the approval of the competent court. So all those stories where the perpetrators will walk in in the middle of the night to someone's apartment thinks they're scared. I don't know, I just haven't figured out why so many people were afraid of this service that works in Europe, and they're not so scared anywhere and so susceptible to those terrible sheriffs as they were called. According to the public perpetrator, he can carry out the exercise in the executioner's home and on an unworkable day or night if there are reasonable reasons and only if the court approves it. What is the difference between the fact that it is now predicted that the same will be done by the judicial officer, and why and the priorities must be further educated and sworn before the authorities of the Croatian State that the procedure will be in accordance with the Constitution and the law and why we do not trust them. As regards the protection of the dignity of the perpetrators in this bill, there is only one sentence, and that is the one in the first paragraph. Thus, it is entirely identical that when carrying out the commission, the dignity of the perpetrators must be kept in mind. Of course, in the executive procedure, it is always necessary to keep the balance between effective exercise, between the believer who has been established in the judicial procedure of his search or, in accordance with the Implementing Law, having the right to effective exercise of his right, while keeping an eye on the dignity of the debtors and thus making no difference between this proposal and the former bill. As far as this Implementing Law is concerned, he has a certain improvement but that is why the whole system should not have been changed so significantly and gone to the denial of public perpetrators that we have introduced as a service to make this performance more effective. Why? The public contractor in his work is fully observing the performance. The public perpetrator is also a person who can suggest, who can intercede between creditors and debtors, who can do and suggest to a believer who often does not know what means and object of the exercise would be most effective for him, and also suggest to the debtor that, together with him, for the benefit of the believer, he chooses the object and instrument of the exercise that will be least painful and traumatic for the debtor. And when we talk here about the executive procedure, we always mention one side. A colleague, Vuljanic, spoke of people who are on the edge of the existence who are pressing on the top, who are having a hard time living. That's all true. But this executive law therefore has protective mechanisms, and it is very much so that it has said about the motions that can be done and what can be done. So the things that serve the existential needs can't go into effect. He also said the same thing in terms of monetary income. It excludes individual receipts from the performance and restricts permanent receipts to a certain extent, i.e. 2/3 and Õ except for specific cases. So he protected those categories. But don't forget that there are people who are very wealthy who don't meet their obligations, or where some of those poor people have been a credit guarantee, so they bought an expensive car and drove in a jeep and lived in a good apartment, and this poor guy pays off their credit and can't even settle for his demand because there's a bailiff who can't find that jeep or that Mercedes, he's never there in front of the house. And here's a new bill that the debtor would have to choose himself to say where the car would be, and when it could be taken away from him, unlike the existing bill that put it in the police's jurisdiction to inform him. Here, my time is up. Excuse me. From everything we say, we believe that the 2010 draft law was good and that it was only to be systematically implemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12687	Thank you. We're done discussing clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate. First came Ingrid Antičević Marinović, here are your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12688	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr Vice President, for the esteemed Deputy Minister of Justice, colleagues and colleagues. And with this bill of law, the government keeps its election promise. That their perpetrators would not enter at night because this allowed the provision of Article 42. A law now abolished as it was announced. That's what the media wrote about. Of course, by mocking that law, and in some way by participating in the torments of citizens who, behold, such an article without the law being seen and such provisions called going night, I will come to you at night. That's not gonna work! First of all, we all know and agree, so any court ruling unless it's executed is a dead letter on paper and mocking is justice. And no one here questions the court's decision has to be carried out, because otherwise, what's the trial for? Then let's drop the trial. And no one's against it. But, gentlemen, what kind of hell was going on with such a legal solution where it wasn't enough even for a court order, where it wasn't enough for the FINA, where it wasn't enough for the public notebooks who took over the good part of the charge, but we still needed public contractors. We know why, but it's a long story and ad personam, it wouldn't be my debate, in that direction my debate wouldn't go, but we stick to the content itself. What were the headlines, and what produced the solution so far? And it's all called that in the media it's been called hell of an execution. Here are just a few titles: On top of this, he sits on account because of other people's plates, we're running out of power, we're doing more over our heads, the FINA published 212317 citizens have a blocked account, so they don't have to pay him again, because of a long ex-husband being kicked out of their own house, the bank sold them the house, and the extra money has to wait, Omishana blocked the account because of other people's debts, as we're being cheated by merchants, the teleppers are charging out of old claims. And no one was responsible for the anti-chamber charge. That's what I'm always talking about, and nobody's ever cared about that before. And, of course, in the dim, many were invited to hunt. She didn't pay 45 kuna fines, now she has to pay 70,000 kuna and there's just no end to it. And the perpetrators make a public order, that they may, behold, do not destroy us, for we help the debtors out of slavery. There you go. And a few more maybe. My entire salary is given to the bank by a desperate Belovarian woman. They send warnings and errands. We saw now that they didn't have any. We knew that from before, but we waited calmly for years. We have warned that citizens are being robbed by these warnings. And we know exactly who has the right to warn and under what conditions and under what tariff. Only lawyers have it. But nice bankers came up with this kind of cute little thing from 20 to 200 kuna for what it costs 10 bucks to charge and no one stepped on their tails. Therefore, this proposal of the Implementing Law, which finally makes the missus and the deputy special and apostrophe, comes in a way and comes in the same rank and credible ID and executive ID. Because the solution so far has been completely illogical. That it was less worth a court ruling than someone's bill that may have gone out of date might already have been charged. It was an injustice that had existed for many, many years, and somehow we were even used to it that these authentic documents were not being misused, and we know which way. Now here's the end, in the same status they come and I don't repeat everything the deputy lady herself has said, I would especially point out the provision of Article 289 and the criticism given to public notebooks. Notary is one service that had a long history in Croatia until '45. Or '46. It hasn't been lifted. She was very quick to come from our best match shot. I'm talking here, and I'm taking out the data that they're pointing to, which is alarming because it also points to injustice, and we can't tolerate that when it comes up. Namely, public notebooks received 520 thousand 34 executions last year, and out of that number, only 10% of the public notebooks received more than 50% of the work. Then we know that in which they are in some way privileged to other public notebooks, which means that a large, that 265 public notebooks received items of only 25%. And this injustice came out of that provision by which the believer himself may be the archduke to choose for which he will go to the public notary. We must note that this is not a unilateral legal business where the party has the right to choose a person of its trust. This is about, the truth more about the indisputable matter at least on the basis of an executive document or credible documents, but it can also become during the exercise and disputed. Whether it has already been carried out, that the debtor has fulfilled his obligation to the believer or for some other reasons that are taxing in law and numbered and that do not actually change because they have always been placed and stabilized. So here's an example. In Hungary, such items are shared through their Public Bookmark Chamber. Madam Deputy, please fill in and remove this one irregularity that has been nested and interpreted amongst the expert, but also among the general public as one corrupt element. Because I'm saying it's not about one-sided legal work. He can't choose a believer to go to a public notary. Just like we don't choose where we're going to have the same public notary for the rest of the debate, but the court's order to go to a public notary. And there's no problem. Here, this alarming data that's really saying something's wrong. Because normally during things, this is not how an object schedule would be executed in a particular circle of notebooks that hold over 75%. So obviously there's something wrong with that, and here's what I suggest is that this changes until the final proposal of the Executive Law. And in the case of payment on cash claims that the Public Bookmark Chamber will also determine, on specific terms, how it will share those items. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12689	Thank you, too. We've got one correction on your exhibit. Anna Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12690	Thank you very much. So here I am correcting the quote again, and I don't know how many times public contractors will be able to get into people's apartments to prey on them. So I'm reading article 4. The 2010 executive law, which says "the public enforcement officer can carry out the performance in the executioner's home only with the approval of the competent court, at night only when the competent court determines it" so there is no reason to determine otherwise than for the court enforcer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12691	Thank you. We have one replica, Miss twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12692	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's a representative I'm asking you nicely, now you've set very good examples of robbery and so I'm asking you on behalf of the citizens and citizens of the City of Zagreb who in the last 10 days, whose addresses come with warnings and suggestions for accounts from Holding, here's exactly what you know, and we know who's in charge and who's in reality the leader of the SDP and HNS Holding. Please kindly, the bills of alleged debts came in from one account from '98, '99, 2000, 2001, and somewhere around 1,000 kunas had calculated it all together, and then they put another 2,000 and a few kunas of tight interest. In what way do citizens and citizens wonder, how are you going to handle it in the state? You're trying to solve some things, and in the City of Zagreb it's impossible, you see how you work, so please, here you are ruling them right now, but you are also in the City of Zagreb to answer people what to do. People don't know what to do. '98. Year or '99. It's been a long time, I don't know who's keeping that one account of something from Holding I don't know, heat or anything. Here, that would be my question and I'd like you to answer that.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12693	Thank you. And last in an individual debate, Branko Vuksic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12694	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, respected deputy ministers, colleagues and colleagues or colleagues because I have heard that colleagues always say the same thing from colleagues and colleagues, and then I will be colleagues and colleagues. I didn't mean to answer the question, but the impressive picture he told me here at my colleague Vuljanic's pay phone made me do it. It's that picture, if you remember, although we're not from the same generation, it's about the peasant who's being dragged away by a cow. Probably, even when I was writing to myself, I didn't come up with a rhyme, but he's gonna drag a peasant cow, and no one's gonna grab his head. Because a colleague Vuljanic said they were holding heads in that picture because they were snowing that it was possible in one country to do such things as they used to do in comic books or illustrated books. But what used to be just in the pictures of what we used to be like a colleague Vuljanic laughed today is a reality. Well, we've been waiting for what's in our picture books to come true. But it's not a fairy tale. It's a serious reality. Before my colleague said that I think that's what my colleague Lovrin said that there are protection mechanisms in the law when a person who is poor is a person who needs to pay bills but there's always one. I'm always afraid that these protection mechanisms of the state are a little too strong for those who have and too weak for those who don't. Look out, what are these protective mechanisms? On the one hand, it is a strong and unjust state, and on the other hand it is a dissuasive citizen. These protective mechanisms normally have to shoot. What is the essence of what should be the most important thing in this law that is needed and which, as the previous speakers say, is well written, it is very important to take care of the dignity of the perpetrators. That's the most important thing. The most important thing is to be human. It's important who is being executed, how much money is being made, and why it's being done is important. Whether she was always careful and whether she would always pay attention to grandma's dignity, we remember those cases where the perpetrators came and took the TV because she didn't pay a few TV subscriptions or a few months she didn't pay a TV fee, and she didn't pay a TV fee because a strong state made her not pay because she didn't have anything to pay because she didn't spend in a bar or in a casino. Thus, it seems by numerous cases that no one but the loved ones may be watching over the people being executed and in a poor financial state. It is absolutely certain that it is right that the state itself is charging debts and the state will assume and we are therefore the most concerned in the Croatian Parliament about the dignity of citizens, it will probably be more subtle than the perpetrators of those to whom the state has in some way denied the possibility of enforcement. There is a clear need to look back at the big problem in the execution, which is the business of the FINA. Her additional disillusionment of the unfortunate is certainly not good. FINA for each paper, for each report, for every information about the perpetrator requires compensation and this requires excessive compensation and requires almost a loan fee. The last fifth seems to me to be a passed law prohibiting the payment of notices to banks that can no longer charge 30 or 50 kuna to let you know that you have been over the bill for 4 or 5 days, so you didn't send the money for an American bill, so pay you 50 kuna, so if they didn't get it in 5 days, then again in 5 days, and then you have to ask to get your money back because you paid, bring the receipt, etc. It should also make FINA charge only as much money as paper and how much ink. I don't think it's necessary to explain why that's all. Yeah, you should think of those who don't, a colleague before said that many who have a lot of money don't pay bills, they're also obliged to do their dues. Yes, they should be treated quite differently, as I said at the outset, it is important who is being executed and how much money is being made. Care should be taken for those who have been deceived who have been either bailed or who have gone into trouble believing other people because of some other things, the state should certainly be compassionate to them. And in the end, I'm sure I won't shed a tear for public contractors. They were public to me, whether the state was always hateful, maybe just because of this picture from the textbook, and I repeat again what we used to laugh at here, it knocked on our door, and so when I talk about this problem, I need to know that when it comes to the collection of the debt that most of the people who don't have are on the other side are on the other side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12695	Thank you. We have a replica on your exhibit. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12696	Thank you very much. Well, our colleague Vuksic didn't do it like that. I mean those demagogue stories about that cow being dragged and led by the applicable or executive law that didn't come into force and the one from '96, so no one could drag that cow out today. It says that farmers are protected by what they need to do with agriculture, but otherwise, here is the protection of the perpetrators of the natural person, says when you can't and can't do money search. It says by exempting the subject of the application, there can be no clothing, footwear, laundry, food, heating, working fertilization, therefore, agricultural machinery, other war tools, tools, machines, etc. until number 8. So as far as monetary incomes are concerned, it says which are excluded from the obligation not to list up to 10 legal benefits, on the basis of social care, temporary unemployment, child benefits, scholarships, fees, damages, etc. says those who are limited and I must say that the amendments to the Executive Act of 2007 or 2008 seem to me that we are just to make that social moment even say that this refers to the average salary because 2/3 pays someone who has 20,000 and 2/3 pays someone who has 4000 is not the same, so we said it can be done all the way to 2/3 of the average salary. So, they won't be able to get that cow peasant out of this executive law that's for sure, but they'll be able to pull through pretty well if someone has a cow farm, and they haven't settled down, he bought expensive tractors, etc., and he didn't settle his debt to the believer and that believer who might have his own cow and his needs will have the right peace of mind.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12697	Thank you. We have an answer to your replica. Comrade Vuksic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12698	I find it strange how here in the Parliament if someone disagrees with someone says demagogue immediately. But it's not demagogy what you read, you read a dead letter on paper. Grandmothers took the TV, the cow is symbolic, so I guess you realized that cow is symbolic. They'll take a bike if you want, there's a little cow in Croatia, you know that there were 500 thousand of them in the early '90s, and now there's 180 thousand. So it's symbolic, and I find it strange for my colleagues that you're defending actually the SDP proposal, which is even strange to me.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12699	Thank you. Otherwise, our grandfathers spoke of the cattle as being mild and there I understand the symbolism of what my colleague Vuksic said. We're done with an individual discussion. Deputy Minister, here's a short one. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12700	Thank you very much. Thanks for the discussion. Here's what I'm going to do as soon as possible, not to elaborate what's just been said. In addition to Article 6, there is therefore a series of provisions that protect the dignity of the debtors. I'd like to point out one important moment here, and we continue to deal with the debtor in this debate. Croatian citizens do not only make up debtors but also believers and we are, in fact, at the same time, debtors and creditors and protection of the interest of the believer is something that should also be taken into account through the Executive Law, and everything in light of what we have been saying forward in achieving guidelines for an effective, economical, accelerated exercise that relieves courts. I'm going to refer to Mrs. Lovrin on this information about the cash cost. In principle, I will say, I do not think that there is a fundamental difference for Croatian citizens in whether the cost of introducing public perpetrators is new to 75 million or 161 million. We were doing a projection so we came up with 161 million, it's not a calculation, it's a projection based on the average value of the performance that was sought, the value of the demand. This amount of 75 million I can't comment on because I don't know what you were doing, or you were talking about the Justice Department's calculation, 75 million was done on the basis of the lowest enquiries, small enquiries. If we're going to talk about the average, it's this larger amount, but if we're going to talk about citizens' interests, every amount is not justified, especially in light of what we've been saying, so we're simply cutting down the procedure by cancelling a phase that shouldn't even be in the process of carrying out the performance of the executive documents on money demand, so there's no cost at all, not even for a lawyer like the esteemed representative of the Grbin, and so on and so on. We spoke here, or used several times a syntagma to make citizens neither guilty nor debtors have to pay for anything. Well, it's done right now, and it's done in the circumstances in which the citizens are in debt, so it's done. These claims that citizens don't know they owe something, citizens know they owe. We carry out the exercise on the basis of power and enforcement decisions or the correction of public notebooks, so the execution was preceded by a certain procedure. I allow there to be something called delivery through the advertisement board and here was the delivery talk. We in the judiciary have been facing a big problem for a long time, and now obviously we all have to face it, which is the application of the residence. Registration of residence to another address in order to achieve transport costs. We know it's hard to find a party in that address at which it was registered at the MUP, and a big job follows us setting up a residence. So in the advertising zone, I allow the party not to know that it is due, but every search comes from a particular account or from the consumption of a particular service, and that the judgments after court proceedings are not spoken of, the parties know very well what this is about. We were talking here about the position of the debtor who had a certain legal decision so he guaranteed something, so he didn't want to guarantee it that way, etc. These are categories of legal responsibilities for acts which cannot be resolved in the performance. There are renewals, fraud charges, etc., it's not something that can be resolved in the executive procedure. I repeat, the exercise deals only with enforcement based on power and enforcement decisions. We were talking about having passed the 2010 Executive Act. Yes, he was voted in the Parliament and he was based as I introduced and said on the projection that the introduction of the private service of public perpetrators would improve the system of performance. Meanwhile, a law on the implementation of the budget implementation by the Ministry of Finance at the time was passed, and the law turned our executive system into an agency activity. It has been said and it is not disputed that the Agency's performance has been demonstrated and we have actually upgraded the system previously introduced by the Law on the implementation of the budget implementation. We consider this law to be very good and very important in practice, and its effects and effects, which were created, were only possible to establish and determine them after implementation, so after 2011. That's why there's been this change. We did not commit ourselves to the European Commission to pass exactly this kind of executive law, but we committed ourselves to make the exercise more effective and to relieve the courts and we did so by amending this law. So we were not bound before the European Commission by the adoption of a certain law. We will, of course, follow the law in every way, and it will also show the need for some kind of change. However, both the course of procedures and new technological achievements, etc. will require some changes. That shouldn't be a problem at all. We have also referred here to the fact that we have proposed the abolition of the service of public contractors. Full observation of the performance by public perpetrators, which means for the executive. For an executive, it means further prolonging the billing of his demand. The state cannot be in a position that after the party has a powerful and executive decision, it depends on the disposition of the public service provider at its speed, whether or not it will implement the operation. And when we add to that what we have been saying about the choice of public notebooks, the law that we seek to abolish this proposal envisioned that the party chooses a public contractor in whatever territory it wants. And we feel that this solution is certainly not good. The question of what is the difference in the cost between the executives and the court, so the difference is that the cost is paid for the work of the public contractor, and for the exercise before the court is paid that fee which is significantly lower and significantly lower. If we're going to talk about lawyers, I'm very grateful that you reminded me of that. A lawyer is a private service and a party, or citizen has the right to choose it or not, and you are absolutely right there, he can choose it or he can't. But public enforcement is a mandatory service that this state wanted to introduce to oblige citizens to use this service. So, there's been... and it should be given to a lazy private public enforcement service to carry out its performance under these circumstances and to charge certain costs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not true that direct execution could be possible. This is simply not true because there is an Article 39 of the 2009 Implementing Law that provided that there are no items and means of enforcement in the decision on the work of the public notary. Therefore, the items and means of enforcement shall be determined only by means of a public enforcement officer and by the party without a public perpetrator shall not go into effect. This provision, referred to in Article 180, which you quoted, remained because during the transitional period of the party would have these old decisions that should be implemented. But from the day public contractors bring their executive titles, they can and are the only ones who are actually scheduled to determine the means and the subject matter of the execution. And so, the citizen can't get around them. And that's what was very difficult. But I wouldn't want us to continue to deal with the fate of 63 people. We know that what has changed in the idea or way they would have established their service for them is a problem. But in terms of the problem of 63 persons and other Croatian citizens, I think we should protect the Croatian citizens in the first place, and this bill was also on the trail. We will, of course, respect all that will be proposed and given in the form of amendments until the final proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12701	Thank you, Deputy Minister. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. And you turned the wrong way? This is how we have three corrections of incorrect allegations. My colleague Nikola Vuljanić first called, please correct the quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12702	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I've turned the board wrong one more time. Ms. Deputy Minister regretted that we are talking about debtors all the time, and that in Croatia we have equal debtors and creditors. I can't believe it. I can believe that the vast majority of Croatian citizens are in debt, and that the believer has very, very few places to go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12703	A colleague, Vuljanić, is not a correction to an incorrect quote. Whether you believe it or not. That's your opinion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12704	So is this. Well, that's a nice song that says what the state and God are supposed to do. It says God take care of the poor, the rich take care of themselves anyway. So let's not worry about the believers so much. They'll take care of it, let's take care of the poor girl.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12705	Thank you. We have a correction, Anna Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12706	Well, Madam Deputy Minister said it was passed, that this 2010 executive law was going in the direction of public perpetrators, and that a law on the implementation of the law on money was adopted. That's not true. It was first adopted in July of the Law on the implementation of the budget implementation as part of the implementing legislation, and this Implementing Law was adopted in November 2010, at the end of November 2010. As for the implementation of monetary resources, it could also be in the Executive Act because it is only part of the Executive Procedure, or one of the means of enforcement.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12707	Thank you. And another correction, Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12708	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So, Madam Deputy Minister said that practically this law will solve the problem of execution. Definitely in Croatia, the problem of enforcement lies in court judgments and therefore we have 45 billion unpaid obligations to the state. How much a mistake in this is best told you if the state is unable to collect its claims despite all the blockades and all the instruments it has and let's not fool ourselves with any legal provisions to solve this problem. Unfortunately, we will not, and what this law needs to do is to protect Croatian citizens in any case. What? No, I just said that this way we won't solve it effectively because the problem is in court judgments. So that disputes that show that someone owes someone something don't last a few years or more and that people aren't afraid that that's how it's gonna be then would be far less of a debt. And we first have to deal with it, because otherwise, if you don't know in Croatian courts on average, they have about 800 million deposited funds that have seized various judgments, blocked, etc. So about 800 million funds are being made from practically the monetary system of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12709	Thank you. This is what we've exhausted the defendants for the hearing. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12710	Fellow Members and colleagues, we can continue to work at the 4th session. I ask the ministers to take their seats, the MPs to sit on the bench. We're going to vote. First of all, the proposal for an executive law, first reading of the PZ No. 128. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "First, the proposal for an Implementing Law, Second, all objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare the final draft law". The quorum we have is obviously at first sight. I'm asking who's in. Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes with 80 votes in favour, 30 against and 8 abstentions have reached the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12711	We move to - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the implementation of the implementation of the law on money, first reading, P.Z. No. 130. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Deputy Minister, here's a brief introduction.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12712	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This proposal to amend and supplement the Act on the implementation of the budget implementation is a continuation of this previous presentation concerning the Executive Act. In the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Implementation of the Act, we extended the basics on the basis of which a direct payment can be made, and between the grounds so far, which were the decision on the execution, the decision on insurance, the debtors, the order of the Ministry of Finance to be paid under the activated State guarantee, the order for confiscation in the enforcement procedure and the final decisions and the settlements of the domestic court, the arbitration court or the administrative body which reads as fulfilling certain monetary claims and which have a confirmation of the implementation of the proposal and of the employer of the non-payment of the amount of wages, remuneration or compensation. I would like to stress this last in particular regarding the previous note whether we are believers or debtors, workers, or persons who make their salary or pay or severance fees are certainly believers. This law has certain improvements related to harmonisation and the nomotechnical part. The procedure for the prescribed direct payment form is introduced to seek direct payment, as previously stated by the Executive Act itself, and this prescribed form is guaranteed for the accuracy of the data. What will improve security is the electronic integration of FINA and other public authorities. The deadline that has been set for a year has been put as such as the maximum in order to connect the courts because it is the weakest link. But what we can say for what there are technical conditions to now implement the integration is the integration of FINA, public authorities and public notebooks because they're probably such bodies that don't have much to do with court ties. So they have all the electronic preconditions that connection can be performed immediately. Here, not to be too long now, it's mostly about the law on the implementation of the enforcement on the money we're changing in this most significant part of the expansion of the executive base. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12713	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Party club Dragutin Lesar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12714	Dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed deputy minister. You've made me a lot of trouble with the preliminary and final address in the previous law, and now this, and I'm going to start from what I heard from you today. The debtor knows he's in debt. That's not true. Because we have 10 cases where employees' employers tightened the loan the worker had in the bank and the money didn't supply the bank. And the worker found out six, seven, eight months when his account was blocked. He doesn't always know that his debt hasn't been paid. They have permanent orders in banks to pay certain obligations and are certain that the bank fulfils the obligation on a permanent basis. And if the bank hadn't made a commitment on a permanent warrant, because their system died on the 10th of the month it was due to pay, and on the 11th, when he came back, they didn't know the commitment wasn't carried out by the worker, that's what he finds out when his account was blocked. Are these the citizens of this country? These are the debtors who are subject to these laws and you ask us why we take so much care of the debtors? Because the state, but especially the supervisory authorities, put them in a position to enter the system of conduct, neither guilty nor debtor. What do we do with them? Declare them to thieves, debtors who knew and had and refused to pay, or did the system screw them up? And they will also pay the costs of the execution that are not small and it will take them two, three months to unblock their account because the blockade goes immediately and the deblockation for at least three months. And that's why, Your Honor, I know two kinds of debtors. Those who have and don't want to pay and those who would pay, but they don't. I also know a few kinds of believers. It's the lenders and the bankers. These are institutions, companies and persons who perform certain services to citizens and have the right to charge them in a very small number of citizens who cannot charge for something from someone. And that, of course, in a legal sense, the state must take equal care of both the believer and the debtor when it comes to fulfilling obligations. But in what way? Are all debtors really in the same position in the system of performance? For me, today's economic crisis due to the cancellation, the reduction of wages, the irregular payouts are not only a matter of execution but also of a deep social issue. So now a little populism because we're famous for hearing from the citizens the return of an incorrectly executed execution. How long has it been since it's been established that FINA has done the wrong citizen's work to pay him back? Six to eight months. Same name in the building, same last name two men execute his garbage delivery. And a man proves that he paid, that it is not him, and says find his OIB for them, for we have your OIB written down, and then we will charge him, and you shall make peace with him. If you don't believe go ask at the utility company where it happened. It's not far, it's in Chakovec. Second, the order of payment of claims especially when it comes to banks. What have we given them, Madam Deputy Minister? The mortgage, the variable interest rate, the judge, the bailiff and the currency clause. And persuaded citizens to take loans to buy an apartment with a government incentive. They had a job and a salary, and they lost each other and I can't repay the loan. So these are citizens who are being executed because the bank doesn't recognize this social dimension. And if these citizens today sold that apartment that they bought at market price, they wouldn't pay back half of the credit because they'd been paying back the bank for 20 years and they'd be left without an apartment in the meantime. But something else was a dozen cases where the bank started to collect, not from the debtors, not even tried to charge everything from the debtors, but from the guarantee because it was estimated that it would be more efficient and less resilient if the debtor was a known public figure from politics, estracision, economy, whatever. And we made it possible for them to have the asthma bank choose from whom to collect the debt. An example from today we've learned. To stay at work, you have to sign me as guarantees up to 30,000 euros each of you in Djakov is a firm. The company went bankrupt, the workers ran out of work, and the execution came. And the owner of the BiH firm comes to Djakovo every week to raise an illegal property rental he has hidden there. And no legal state institution can help these workers, nor can it take care of them with their debts and workers pay their debt. And it's all legal. What about those who signed contracts with the clause before the middle of 2008 to agree to the full income, the total income, and only then, in mid-2008, changed the law and gave it a maximum limit of one-third. Was there more important reason for a law to return than that? How many people today whose total income goes on top of not only wages, but whatever they earn and whatever they get. These people are out of existence, these marriages are falling apart, these kids are out of high school because parents can't finance them anymore. You're telling us why we're taking care of them? Well, that's my job. To seek a solution through law enforcement or in a third way what to do with these people because I will not suggest that they move out of Croatia and run away, I urge them to stay in Croatia, I appreciate them as good people who have acquired circumstances in such a situation not because they do not want to pay someone something and the system has brought them into such a situation. And you were able to testify on television every day under what conditions and how banks give citizens on signing contracts, especially in the currency clause, which makes loans five times as high three years after payment than at the time of taking and variable interest rates. And along the way, who allowed the banks to make a deal with the Amending Interest Claus in accordance with the Bank's decision and the Bank didn't have to make a decision on the change of interest but didn't have to deliver the decision to the debtor? We, the rule of law. And the debtor cannot calculate in advance for two months in advance interest obligations, let alone until the end of the repayment period. These are debtors that no one should care about but about the believers. Is it really possible to implement an executive system, an executive model, an executive procedure so that the debtor does not receive any prior warning? I assure you at least from the stories of all the people we talked to somewhere around 25% of them would pay the debt immediately if they knew. They find out in the supermarket, at the ATM, or somewhere when they try to pay with a card, then "I'm sorry" doesn't go away. And those who get along know where they have to go who don't know how to wander around for days to find out and come to FINA have to pay an executive order, see who's been blocking his bill. If you think the debtor doesn't have to get anything, I'll accept it as the will of this government. What about the refund or attempt to collect outdated claims after the expiry of the legal period? With the payment of already paid liabilities, the bank's case activated the tax administration's order, meanwhile, the debtor paid, the account was 8 years old. And only thanks to the zeal of the Financial Officer in the Tax Administration 7 years ago when it was not yet informed were the paper forms of the document that the debtor had settled his obligations but forgot to withdraw the payment order from the bank. When is this entrepreneur going to get the 300 thousand kuna that was taken from him? What he has to do to get back to his money. About these debtors you say we don't need to take care of. You see, I tried to give you good reason to see problems in the implementation of a system of performances that was probably not because someone was bad, not because someone was doing it on purpose, but because the system, or FINA, when it received these tasks and powers because it was not ready for human, organisational, or information. And that was confirmed by the officers themselves who worked there who were crazy every day from the amount of problems they didn't know how to solve themselves. And I want to assure you that most of these problems have not been completely removed today in all the services of FINA itself. I'm not telling you this because I'm criticizing you and your bill but to warn you that there are still problems and try to find solutions. The sale of real estate in the first auction of two-thirds on the second one is one-half a major advance compared to the current solution. That's right. But put yourself in a position where someone sells you your estate that you've been building for 30 years on credit, blacked out every day with your whole family for half value so that some private interest rate would be charged in a way that I don't know what age of your debts would be. Is it possible there is no limit to the amount of claims when they sell real estate that they sold the property for 10 thousand euros worth 200 grand for 100 grand. And we're stressing great progress? That I don't understand how good it is, that I don't understand that someone can praise it as great progress. Only if the claim is a relatively estimated asset or a possible charge would he understand it, but they sell the houses to people for 10,000 euros for 10,000 euros. Is it true that FINA is charging for the management of protected accounts? So it's that poor girl to protect herself, she opened up a special account, to which comes child's allowance, maternity benefits, social benefits. So, in order to save the slave of the debtor, those FINAs allegedly have to pay safekeeping. If it's true to ban these protected accounts immediately, because we're going to steal people and we're going to get little because they don't know it yet, because they're coming at the end of the procedure. Whether this simple method of enforcement is possible also on the resources of the state budget and the budget of the units of local and regional self-government or something else. Look at the law, the provisions of both laws apply, but also some other law, that's the Budget Act. And I assure you that there is no system, and the FINAs and that officer in FINA that will charge by way of an application from a state of one lip, according to this model. By law, percentage control is run by the Croatian National Bank, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice. For the second reading of only one data, Madam Deputy, how many supervisions these 3 institutions have performed as a strong argument when you will re-propose such a law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12715	Thank you. Next on behalf of HDZ Representative Ana Lovrin's club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12716	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister. So here's the Act on the implementation of the budget implementation, so it was passed in 2010 as if money payment transactions were arranged. They showed up in this so far application as, I'd say good law. I will repeat what I said, at first there were difficulties, not because it would have been the law's fault, but because those who were to enforce the law did not carefully implement it and did not provide all the technical conditions. For example, a colleague named Lesar was now talking about protected accounts, etc. to which state institutions that pay citizens this type of income should also take care that they are paid in a special account and help citizens to protect and exempt them from the exercise. I think it's a good improvement in the bill, which is that it can come directly to the FINA and come with, therefore, an executive judgment or a settlement, an arbitration ruling, a court of arbitration or a governing body, so that it can be charged to a financial agency. This system of billing through FINA proved to be far more effective in my opinion than it was before, which is that the charge is carried out through commercial banks. After all, commercial banks are always in some kind of private-legal relationship with their clients and there was indeed a possible conflict of interest, i.e. of particular interest of the bank, to charge or not to charge, perform or fail. So in that sense, we think that this is a single improvement of the law, and this provision that the law introduces the existence of a prescribed form of requirements whose substance is prescribed by a sublaw. Here's what I'd say if it wasn't really necessary, so change the law, that it could also be implemented all from the organization in implementation. What I'm interested in, and my colleague Lesar talked a lot about banks, about the position of the bank, about how they were in particular protected in some way, so we've had a good time in history that regulated banks were charging interest rates, and citizens had interest rates on interest. Then we were interpreted as being possible from the credit line, etc. And it all worked out until one, one citizen didn't pay the bank interest on interest, and then there was a panic and then the law was changed. If you remember that famous case. Now I'm interested in this article 5, perhaps the Deputy Minister can explain it, and it's about the implementation of the bank's cash implementation. It says the existing law to implement the implementation of the bank’s cash accounts is applicable accordingly to the provisions of this law. As well as the bank. The bank's cash execution is carried out from the bank's funds in the Croatian National Bank. The implementation order referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article shall be submitted by the Agency to the Croatian National Bank. That's what the existing law says. And now this article is changed in a way to say that the implementation of the bank’s cash accounts is properly applied to the provisions of this law and the specific regulations governing the business of credit institutions and interbank payment systems. So, I fear that there are again certain special conditions for banks to have some exceptions from all other legal and physical persons who are debtors in these executive procedures. And says the finance minister in more detail will prescribe a special manner of conditions and deadlines for the execution of the base of payment in the implementation of the bank's cash implementation. Furthermore, Article 8 reiterates the specific way in which the conditions and deadlines for the execution of the basis for payment in the implementation of the bank’s cash implementation. Here, I would also comment on Article 11 which states that FINA and public law bodies which pay receipts and fees which are legally exempt from the application will establish exchanges of data by electronic means, etc., and for all these are determined within one year of the entry into force of this law. I think it's too much of a deadline, that what's been determined a year since the entry into force of this law, and this is in the first reading, so it's going to be the end of 2012 that it's all supposed to be done. If not complete networking electronically, but at least some data exchange system because debtors and executives can no longer endure this way which has already lasted for almost a year to be implemented first on means that are excluded from the performance, and then on what the talk was about, therefore, that debtors do not know about the debt. There's a particularly dangerous area I'd say the exercise is not based on a credible I.D. and I think that even in the Implementing Law it should be considered, this credible I.D. is very, very broadly established. So there are also invoices for which, or derived from books, it can be derived from business books or invoices for which the person has no idea that an account has been issued, so nowhere by its act and the act has not confirmed the receipt of any goods or admitted that account, and it may happen to him that he goes on purpose. You should think about that. Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister. So here's the Act on the implementation of the budget implementation, so it was passed in 2010 as if money payment transactions were arranged. They showed up in this so far application as, I'd say good law. I will repeat what I said, at first there were difficulties, not because it would have been the law's fault, but because those who were to enforce the law did not carefully implement it and did not provide all the technical conditions. For example, a colleague named Lesar was now talking about protected accounts, etc. to which state institutions that pay citizens this type of income should also take care that they are paid in a special account and help citizens to protect and exempt them from the exercise. I think it's a good improvement in the bill, which is that it can come directly to the FINA and come with, therefore, an executive judgment or a settlement, an arbitration ruling, a court of arbitration or a governing body, so that it can be charged to a financial agency. This system of billing through FINA proved to be far more effective in my opinion than it was before, which is that the charge is carried out through commercial banks. After all, commercial banks are always in some kind of private-legal relationship with their clients and there was indeed a possible conflict of interest, i.e. of particular interest of the bank, to charge or not to charge, perform or fail. So in that sense, we think that this is a single improvement of the law, and this provision that the law introduces the existence of a prescribed form of requirements whose substance is prescribed by a sublaw. Here's what I'd say if it wasn't really necessary, so change the law, that it could also be implemented all from the organization in implementation. What I'm interested in, and my colleague Lesar talked a lot about banks, about the position of the bank, about how they were in particular protected in some way, so we've had a good time in history that regulated banks were charging interest rates, and citizens had interest rates on interest. Then we were interpreted as being possible from the credit line, etc. And it all worked out until one, one citizen didn't pay the bank interest on interest, and then there was a panic and then the law was changed. If you remember that famous case. Now I'm interested in this article 5, perhaps the Deputy Minister can explain it, and it's about the implementation of the bank's cash implementation. It says the existing law to implement the implementation of the bank’s cash accounts is applicable accordingly to the provisions of this law. As well as the bank. The bank's cash execution is carried out from the bank's funds in the Croatian National Bank. The implementation order referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article shall be submitted by the Agency to the Croatian National Bank. That's what the existing law says. And now this article is changed in a way to say that the implementation of the bank’s cash accounts is properly applied to the provisions of this law and the specific regulations governing the business of credit institutions and interbank payment systems. So, I fear that there are again certain special conditions for banks to have some exceptions from all other legal and physical persons who are debtors in these executive procedures. And says the finance minister in more detail will prescribe a special manner of conditions and deadlines for the execution of the base of payment in the implementation of the bank's cash implementation. Furthermore, Article 8 reiterates the specific way in which the conditions and deadlines for the execution of the basis for payment in the implementation of the bank’s cash implementation. Here, I would also comment on Article 11 which states that FINA and public law bodies which pay receipts and fees which are legally exempt from the application will establish exchanges of data by electronic means, etc., and for all these are determined within one year of the entry into force of this law. I think it's too much of a deadline, that what's been determined a year since the entry into force of this law, and this is in the first reading, so it's going to be the end of 2012 that it's all supposed to be done. If not complete networking electronically, but at least some data exchange system because debtors and executives can no longer endure this way which has already lasted for almost a year to be implemented first on means that are excluded from the performance, and then on what the talk was about, therefore, that debtors do not know about the debt. There's a particularly dangerous area I'd say the exercise is not based on a credible I.D. and I think that even in the Implementing Law it should be considered, this credible I.D. is very, very broadly established. So there are also invoices for which, or derived from books, it can be derived from business books or invoices for which the person has no idea that an account has been issued, so nowhere by its act and the act has not confirmed the receipt of any goods or admitted that account, and it may happen to him that he goes on purpose. You should think about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12718	Thank you, too. We don't have any more logs. Deputy Minister? You don't have to, okay. Thank you. This concludes the debate. ... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12719	Proposal for a Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the implementation of the budget implementation, first reading of the PZ No. 130. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals made by the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "First, the Amendment Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the implementation of the law on money and secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the Proposer in order to prepare the final draft of the law." I'm asking who's in. Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes with 82 votes in favour, 30 against and 12 abstentions have reached the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12720	We move to - Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on Public Executive, first reading, PZ No. 129 Proposer of law...... It's probably gonna be the deputy at the end, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Deputy Minister, please, for a moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12721	Thank you very much. Honorable MPs and MPs. A brief explanation, teaching what we have previously stated. In our proposal for an executive law and in accordance with the amendments and additions to the Act on the implementation of the law on monetary assets, we propose to suspend the law on public enforcement because this service is within the framework of the newly established so-called so-called ‘. We do not see the agency system as the one that will achieve the objectives we have taken over, and in line with the Council of Europe's guidelines for effective implementation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12722	Thank you, too. Do the committee's reporters want to see it? No, I don't. There's no record of a hearing. I'm opening a debate, and I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12723	Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on Public Executors, first reading of PZ No. 129. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "First, the proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on Public Executives and the Second, all objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the Proposer in order to prepare the final draft law". I'm asking who's in. Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes with 83 votes in favour, 31 against and 10 were adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12724	We move to - Proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on public enforcement fees, first reading, PZ No. 131 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the suggestions by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Does the Deputy Minister want on behalf of the Proposer for a short while? Here, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12725	Thank you very much. Well, now that we've come to an end, then I'm happy to say that I'm staying with what we said about public contractors and so on for public enforcement fees. We propose to suspend the validity of this law according to the reasons set out previously. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12726	Thank you, Deputy Minister. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the hearing because there are no reports. We'll vote when the conditions are met. For tonight, that's it. I've got two notices. The Finance Committee's tomorrow at 10 o'clock. You'll get the exact phone calls, and you'll be notified of it. And tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 Proposal for a law on the enforcement of sanctions imposed on minors for criminal offences and violations, first reading, PZ No. 136. Good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-07-09-0.u12727	Proposal for a Law on the termination of the Law on Public Execution Taxes, first reading of PZ No 131. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "First, the proposal for a law on the termination of the Law on Public Execution Taxes and the Second, all objections, proposals and opinions will be sent to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes with 85 votes in favour, 31 against and 7 abstentions have been reached.
