ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2564	We move to the first item of the agenda because we agreed so when we completed the meeting three weeks ago, which is - The 2010 report on the work of the state's lawyers was submitted by the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia on the basis of Article 40. Law on State's Attorney's Office. You received the proposal by mail. The government delivered an opinion, and the debate was conducted by the Committee on Justice and the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. Does the proposal's representative, Mr. Attorney General Mladen Bajic, want to further explain the proposal? I invite him and I greet him.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2565	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. President, the honourable MPs and MPs of the report before you are made up in accordance with Article 40. The Law on State Attorney's Office under which the Law of the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia is required to submit a report on work in the previous year to the Croatian Assembly once a year. In accordance with the legal provisions, the report also contains indicators of the state and movement of crime, of actions taken to protect the assets of the Republic of Croatia and of the material and human rights of the state attorneys during the reporting year. The report also draws attention, in part, to the state and functioning of the legal system, to the shortcomings in the legislative and internal business of the state's attorney's office. I note that this report is for 2010 because given the passage of time in a month or a month or so, you will receive a new 2011 report with current and fresh data, given that this in a certain way has already become obsolete in view of the passage of time in a certain way. However, the data contained in it on the 150 pages detail the categories we report on, which are the state and movement of crime and the actions taken to protect the assets of the Republic of Croatia. The report is conceptually and methodologically adapted, first of all in the legal provision that prescribes it, but also earlier reports from earlier years, above all so that it can be compared methodologically and used not only by you to assess the work and conduct in these areas but also by those involved in the scientific study of these powers, above all by criminality. However, regardless of this report in 2010, it also contains some other powers which were not previously indicated, since 2010 is very important for the state's attorneyship as a whole, since this is the last year of validity of the old Criminal Procedure Act, which has been worth almost 150 years in various forms in these areas. Namely, a new Criminal Procedure Act has been adopted in full in the Republic of Croatia since 1 September of this year, and in the field of USKOK jurisdiction since two years ago, since 2009. On the other hand, significant changes to the procedural laws and activities related to the accession of the Republic of Croatia and Chapter 23 on the judiciary and fundamental human rights have marked the work of the State's attorneyship in 2010 because, thanks to the law on criminal proceedings mentioned, as well as to other accompanying laws such as the Law on State's Attorneyship and the Law on the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, the position and role of the State's attorney in the legislative system of the Republic of Croatia has been substantially amended because the State's attorney has taken over one important segment of criminal proceedings, which is the procedure of carrying out the investigation. In this respect, when assessing the effectiveness of work in a particular area, in particular in the area of criminal protection, it is necessary to appreciate the quality and legislative solutions and the work of other bodies in particular in the area of prosecution of perpetrators of criminal offences. First of all, however, it is important to appreciate the work of state attorneys, i.e. deputies working on these types of cases. I stress, the state's attorney's office is that it's a legal and constitutionally defined law enforcement body and our fundamental right and duty is to prosecute the perpetrators of criminal acts. Other bodies, primarily the police and individual administrations of the Ministry of Finance, are authorised and obliged to disclose the perpetrators of criminal offences and submit applications to the State's attorney. Very often the work of these state bodies depends on the success of the state's attorney in the subsequent procedure. However, I reiterate, the success of the work depends primarily on the work of the state's attorneys. The work of the State's Attorney's Office in 2010 was carried out by 53 municipal state's attorneys, 20 county state's attorneys and the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime or USKOK and finally the National Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. A total of 577 state attorneys and deputy state attorneys with escort officers and tenants. Thanks to the amendment of the Law on Areas and Headquarterss of State Attorneys, the number of county state attorneys has been reduced in the past year to 15 and municipal to 33, and in line with the European Commission's requirements for the rationalisation of the network of courts and state lawyers. In this regard, in view of the number of people working in the State Attorney's Office and in accordance with the recommendations made by the Government of the Republic of Croatia in its opinion on this report, it can be noted that the planned resources of the beneficiaries of the State's budget were in 2010 289 million kuna, that a plan of 260 million was approved and that the plan of 257 million kuna was implemented. Of course we're talking about round numbers. So the state's attorneys spent as much as they were granted, as planned, or somewhat less in accordance with certain circumstances. By saying that most of the funds are spent on the salaries of state lawyers, deputies, officials and deputies, but also significant funds on material expenditures, including the cost of art and other costs related to criminal and civil proceedings. And now something about the state of crime and the movement of crime. Given the fact that the annual report has been submitted to all of you, that the passage of time has done its part in the interest of this report and the fact that the time that is at my disposal to introduce you to the basics I will try to present in the shortest form what I think is important, and perhaps by analysing our annual report, it has not fallen into the first plan. In 2010, there was a slight decline in the criminal charges filed by approximately 1%, the increase in criminal charges was present exclusively in the youngest population of minors, and that was 30% while they remained in minor decline. The increase is also against unknown perpetrators by about 3 to 4%. I must point out what results from the table data given to you in this first part of the report, and not only at the end of the report and the comparable data for at least 5 years back, it turns out that the deviations in the figures we follow do not generally differ from year to year or increase or fall show that the number of persons reported from year to year is approximately the same level. Following these movements especially in connection with certain serious crime or crime, which are particularly sensitive to society and we will talk about them later. Working on criminal cases, the State's Attorney's Office maintained a special level of urgency that was reached there somewhere in 2005. We had a criminal record against 62,000 people in 2010. We have resolved 50,000 applications by making decisions, and 10,000 applications remain unsolved from which 69 or 0.13% of the total number of applications have been made, while the remaining applications have been pending because these applications required additional notifications required for one of the state's attorneys' decisions. I have to point out that in the annual report, as in earlier years, it is proposed to have an update below three months, which means that there are fewer cases than a three-month inflow. A significant increase was recorded only in relation to the number of criminal charges against legal persons, which is no wonder that in 2006, this institute was first introduced into our legislation, the Law on Criminal Legal Responsibility of Legal Persons, and this increase from 6 to 2010 is constant, last year 1549 legal persons were reported and most of these were processed. With this in mind, I must warn you that in the report there are data on the state and movement of the crime reported, not the one that really happened. It does not contain estimates of trends, of dark crime, because the State's Attorney's Office is a judicial body, a body whose primary task is to prosecute the perpetrators of criminal acts. The assessment of the threat, the assessment of dark numbers, crosses our authority, and falls within the scope and jurisdiction of other bodies. Namely, the State Attorney's Office only works on the basis of reports of the cases it has in the proceedings and in which a criminal application has been filed but of course a certain number of cases and proceedings shall begin by that methodology a vote shall be submitted to the State's attorney. But that number is relatively smaller compared to the total number of applications. And now something about the state and movement of the criminality structure in those most important segments that may be of particular interest. Crimes against life and body in the overall structure of crime are involved with 3.1% of reported crime, although media surveillance could conclude that it is much, much more. But it's not. The data is accurate and there's basically no dark number here. The truth after 2007, when the number of applications in our records was especially increased, thanks to the adoption of one amendment to the law by which all crimes against the harm of minors were prosecuted by official duty after that number of those criminal charges fell, and in 2010, it fell by as much as 10.8%. In the table, we provided specific data on the most difficult forms of these crimes, and thus gave information in the area of the Republic of Croatia in 2010 whether the murders were serious 11, killings 35, attempted murders 127, etc. These are the exact information that tells you about the extent of these crimes committed in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, I particularly consider it an important point in the area of criminal offences related to the abuse of intoxicating drugs. The indicators in the annual report tell you that there has been an increase in the number of criminal charges filed, however, by analysing the number of criminal charges filed, type and structure, we see that the maximum number of criminal charges has been filed due to the basic criminal offence of the possession of the drug intoxication referred to in Article 173(1). 4227, and the other forms are mostly more difficult to participate with 1491 people reported. As regards this form of criminal offences or this type of crime, I must say that the State Attorney's Office has applied various institutions in order to reject criminal charges for the possession of intoxicating drugs for years and I am warning in our reports because we believe that applying the principle of the opportunist or the application of Article 28 which speaks of a minor social danger, etc., a large number of criminal charges are not being prosecuted in front of criminal courts, but rather in criminal courts, because we believe that this can achieve a greater purpose of punishment. This does not mean decriminalising this form of crime but simply transferring to a lower sphere that gives more effective results and less damage. Why are we talking about minor damage? A large number of persons reported for these crimes are minors, for the possession of intoxicating drugs, for their processing, for the prosecution of this crime would have far greater adverse consequences for these young people in future life than for the benefit or particular threat of not doing this crime anymore. Education, prevention, criminal punishment and control and supervision can win and deliver much greater results. The number of rejections for these offences ranged from 55 to 68 and 70%, respectively, different from those observed. War crimes, 58 new war crimes reports were received in 2010. Most of these applications as well as those remaining unsolved in the previous period have been resolved. 71 people have been charged with various types of war crimes, and the courts have reached 13 convictions of 11 of them. As regards war crimes, it is particularly important to point out that last year, in 2010 we completed the production of a database, it is one complex mechanism, which contains, in electronic form, all data available not only to the State's Attorney's Office but also to the police in respect of the crimes of war crimes but also data obtained from the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia as well as from the state's attorneys or prosecutors in the region. The database is available to police, secret services and to all state attorneys so that they can access useful data and open up numerous so far unprocessed and undiscovered crimes of war crimes. The data mentioned in the report are particularly interesting to you, which is that according to criminal reports and processed war crimes cases, at least 5 thousand 998 people were killed during the Homeland War, that 2,000 266 people were seriously injured, exposed to torture, inhumane treatment by 2 thousand 354 people and raped 67 people. Of course this is a variable category and it, depending on the results and new procedures of new applications, will change from year to year. In the report, we also mentioned research related to war crimes committed during 2nd. World War I. In this direction, we stressed that, under the order of the State Attorney's Office, the Croatian State Archives conducted a full study by and reviewed all archives not only in the Republic of Croatia but also available archives in neighbouring countries, especially in countries from the former Yugoslavia. It has been found unrelentingly that war crimes are also in 2. The World War whether in this direction both the police and the State's Attorney's Office are taking certain measures to establish the perpetrators and process them in the event that this is really possible in view of the course of time. I stress this is the 2010 report. Something else about juvenile crime. In particular, I felt it was important to highlight the crimes of domestic violence where the drop in the number of applications in 2010. The reason for this lies exclusively, the reason is primarily formal. In this regard, the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg adopted two years ago a verdict by Maresti against the Republic of Croatia which at the same time cannot be prosecuted for the same offence and for the criminal offence. The result is that, for minor forms of different illegal behaviour, the State's attorney is going to criminal proceedings, and for serious forms, in accordance with the characteristics of the offence or criminal offence, it goes to criminal proceedings. That's why this number of failed criminal charges. On the other hand, we are sure of what I highlighted yesterday on the board, the violent behavior in the family, and these numbers that we have are not the proper state of nature in life, for surely these crimes have much more. However, both the matter and social education of the impact of trust protection can lead to domestic violence being reported more than it has ever been. Of course, we analyzed the victims of domestic violence according to the criminal charges filed, and we came up with the fact that minors and women are in most of the victims of these crimes. As regards the criminal protection of children and minors, there was a decline in the 2010 application for crimes against sexual freedom, sexual disorder against the harm of children and minors, which is very good, but also against crimes against marriage in the family and youth. Two thousand 315 convictions were reached in 2010 with 86.4 convictions. Is something now about curbing corruption and organised crime, which in our opinion is of particular interest and importance not only in 2010 but also later. Unlike these previously exposed areas of crime, organised crime and corruption became the area in which the biggest changes took place in 2010. First of all, I have to say that on the 1st of August 2009, a new Criminal Procedure Act has been applied to which an investigation has been passed on to state attorneys and, since then, at least in this area, state lawyers have been investigating under new law and collecting evidence in each case. This is also the answer to all the questions why significant developments have occurred since 2009 in particular in the fight against the most difficult forms of corruption. I.D.'s records show how we've tried this before but unsuccessfully because we didn't have the right tools. The new Law on Criminal Procedure has made it possible for the good part now, but with certain reorganisations and reforms in the body area of detection, and also only the State's Attorney's Office, I think things can only be better from year to year. The movement and structure of the subject from the jurisdiction of the office. The corruption and organised crime control office in 2010 received a thousand 101 criminal charges. Of this, 152 applications relate to criminal offences of organised crime, and 925 criminal charges for corruption crimes in a broader sense. Table view and analysis of these numbers are given in the annual report much more extensively. However, on page 35, a chart which is particularly interesting where data on the movement of organised crime and corruption cases are given in the narrowest sense between 6 and 10 years. The chart shows that the number of criminal charges for organised crime is less than 2007 and so on. It's hard to figure out what the reasons for the fall are. Whether it is a reduction in the detecting activity of individual bodies, whether these are new methods of execution that have not yet been identified or something third. However, given indicators of the state of organised crime in the region but also beyond, it would be difficult to conclude that the reason for the drastic decline in the application for organised crime would be a real fall in these crimes. I think the situation is reversed, that the dark crime in this area is significantly higher, especially in the difficult forms of drug trafficking referred to in paragraph 3 where criminal organisations and groups are concerned. And I think that, in this direction, in the next period and the bodies of detection together or in coordination with the State Attorney's Office, they must take much stronger and stronger measures to process or discover certain procedures before that. Unfortunately, there is also a continuing decline in the application for corruption crimes in the narrow sense of the word. Unlike organised crime where the cause of the decline can be a new method of execution, a real reduction in the activities of organised groups or a weaker detection, which I think is primarily, especially today from a certain distance to which this report is written, all indicators that we come up with indicate that corruption crimes are not falling. Corruption is undoubtedly and continues to be present, and there is no adequate social condemnation of corrupt individuals, which all points to the conclusion that the reason for the decline in the number of reported reductions is the discovery activity, not a real reduction in the number of these works. True, when we compare the data, the reason for the decline lies among other things in the fact that in 2007, in 2008, we had an operational action "Index" that resulted in a large number of persons reported who were all legally convicted and convicted and I must say that again from a historical distance. And that's one category that, by looking at us or comparing to previous years, gives us a great commitment to have the number of these items up from year to year, but unfortunately the fall is still present and it's evident and we can't get away from it. The decline in the application for organised crime and corruption is a cause for concern because the number of reports both in the field of organised crime and in the area of corruption does not maintain a real state. This can be held responsible because the information that I cannot speak of, of course, from the results carried out which unfortunately have not yet given sufficient arguments to climb the Criminal Procedure Act more in the follow-up, shows that these cases are still very much, that they have to be well discovered, proven and processed. Something about sentencing. Acting on USKOK's charges in 2010, courts made 305 convictions for organised crime crimes, out of which 93.7% of those convicted, 90% of them prison sentences. Here it shows that the state's attorneys and vice directors of USKOK have properly prosecuted because the control of the courts has passed at this stage is indeed an enviable result. For corruption crimes, the case is similar, courts have reached 156 verdicts of which 90.4% condemning them. In '11. A year, because I already have that information, we have 97% of the convictions for corruption crimes. In corruption cases, special attention shall be paid to security measures and confiscation of property benefit. Security measures were imposed on 65 persons while 22 persons were deprived of the property benefit obtained by a criminal offence. In 2010, USKOK's assets worth 51 million kuna were frozen for criminal offences, and judicial decisions in the proceedings took away 32 million and 118 thousand euros, as well as various properties on which data are available in the file. The data in the tables indicate that the constant increase in the taken-up property benefit and one year later, and in 2011, you will see this in the following report. Speaking of the success of the state's attorney's decisions before the courts, which I consider to be the most important control of the work of a state attorney, at least in those cases that are before the courts, a total of 86.3% of the convictions, remained refutable or liberating. With that in mind, I must say that it is necessary to mention how the State's Attorney's Office, in accordance with the legal decisions, in this year, so the year of '10 was observed. is compared to as much as 5,000 and some persons or in 23.8% of all the defendants we have received so-called. Penalty orders. These are alternative ways of resolving criminal cases, which is a very great help in resolving the backlogs in criminal trial because 23% of the defendants brought up are resolved without legal debates only on the basis of a confirmed decision by the State's Attorney's office. Something about an interesting topic which is subject to interest and a wide public, but I am sure you too have respected parliamentary representatives, which are the reconnaissances of criminal acts and restrictions on fundamental rights and freedoms, a colloquially called listening. As far as special reconnaissance measures are concerned, which are harshly affecting the fundamental rights and freedoms of individuals, we felt that it was as important as last year to give detailed information on this in our report. The table shows that in 2010 the investigating judges or judges issued a total of 876 warrants for the implementation of special reconnaissance measures or demonstration actions carried out against 2534 persons. If we're aware that we're in '10. In the years received, there were 86339 criminal reports resulting in measures being applied once against 34 applications or once to 1760 citizens. The fact that 82% of the warrant has been issued exclusively at the request of the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime shows that these restrictive measures of constitutional and human rights are used primarily for the most dangerous forms of organised crime and corruption for which the USKOK is responsible. Out of 719 orders, 81% were issued for crimes of drug abuse, illegal transfer of persons across the state border and criminal association. I'm also talking about the structure of those who are listening. The regular jurisdiction of the state's attorneys has issued only 157 warrants of which 70% for the murder and trafficking of narcotics. And finally, 61.3% of the activities carried out have resulted in the result, and based on them, they have initiated appropriate criminal proceedings. These are the data for the application of these measures exclusively in criminal proceedings and on the basis of decisions by the competent investigative judges or judges, depending on which type of case. And finally, let me say something more about the actions taken in connection with the protection of the property interests of the Republic of Croatia, on the work on civil and administrative matters. In 2010, civil-government departments of state attorneys had a total of 159000 cases, which is 19.8% less than the year before. However, what is good and what is also seen in our report, the courts made 7500 first - degree decisions more than a year earlier. In the cases, we speak in which the Republic of Croatia is party. The highest number of court cases dropped by 36.8%, administrative by 21.6%. The reduction in the total number of new cases has been affected in our opinion by the reduction in the number of court and administrative cases, the number of cases has been reduced due to a small number of working disputes, the number of land-based books, etc. I see the light warning me to cut short. I would also like to say about representing the Republic of Croatia in property disputes before foreign courts and bodies. I would especially draw attention if we had such 19 cases in different countries. Of all the most important items that we did last year, that is, '10. represented in Germany, and this is an 80m-euro lawsuit against the Republic of Croatia, which we have received in the light of the high amount of the suit. The work and success in litigation cases has been particularly analysed in our report and in those cases where the state's attorney's office representing the Republic of Croatia's prosecutor has received 83% of the disputes, and where the defendants have received only 33.5% of the disputes, and lost 26%, the rest has been resolved in another way, or somewhere in the middle, we've gotten half, half lost. The largest structure in these litigation cases shows that labour disputes are the most still represented. Bank items are particularly important, so I'll just say a few more words about them. During 2010, civil cases have 770 bankruptcy cases, which is a significant increase than a year ago. In this regard, I must say that in the criminal act of our actions, we have also accused 20 persons of various forms of abuse of bankruptcy or abuse in bankruptcy proceedings. 20 people have been charged, and 8 have been convicted. And finally, we are talking about identifying and registering the immovable property of the Republic of Croatia, we are talking first and foremost about that 99.3% of the cadastrian particles for which there are records in the Republic of Croatia are registered, that the specific problem of agricultural land which does not have proper documentation, the particular problem of accounting for ownership of forests and forest land and finally maritime goods in the areas of the Republic of Croatia whose protection has a lot of problems that we point to and we believe that some legislative solutions should be changed to protect maritime well-being. There's a lot more I can say, unfortunately time has done its part. But one commitment I made yesterday, I have to say that for hate crimes in 2010, we received a total of 30 cases, that 16 of them were charged, that we had 9 convictions of which 5 were legally and 4 were inadmissible. And finally also for criminal offences related to the Law on Disclosure of Discrimination and the Law on Gender Equality and Crimes referred to in Articles 106 and 174. The penal law of the Republic of Croatia violates the equality of citizens and racial and other discrimination has been prosecuted by a total of 7 people of whom one person has been convicted so far, these others have been charged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2566	Thank you very much, Mr. Mladen Bajic, the Attorney General. I didn't notice anyone answering and responding. We're moving on to a debate. What? ... Yeah, yeah. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Does the committee reporter want to take the floor? Here you go. Mr Furio Radin, on behalf of the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2567	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Committee considered that report as an interested working body, and in the debate the members of the committee agreed with the assessment of the Government of Croatia that the 2010 report on the work of the state lawyers in the Republic of Croatia was very professionally and thoroughly presented and that the presented data show that a high degree of urgency and quality of work has been achieved both by the state lawyers and their deputies in the persecution of the perpetrators of criminal offences and the protection of the property of the Republic of Croatia. Since a new Criminal Procedure Act was adopted by the courts in the jurisdiction of the State Attorney's Office in September 2011, the conduct of investigations by board members expressed concern over the reduction of the resources planned in the State budget for 2012 in the State's attorney's office. It is pointed out that this law gives significant powers to a state attorney which significantly increases the scope of the work of state attorneys, requiring an increase in the necessary resources both for the recruitment of new officials and officials and for the introduction of new IT technologies and technical equipment, and also for significant means for expert opinions and skills to be implemented in particular in more complex cases. In particular, it points out the problem facing the state's attorney's office in the employment of officials who should work on complex cases and in the jurisdiction of the county's lawyers or at least at the head of state's attorneys. For such jobs, special knowledge and appropriate experience are also needed, and what problem is shown and the data presented in the report, under which 12 seats of state lawyers and 63 seats of deputy state attorneys were unfulfilled in early 2012. As regards the offence of hate crime pursuant to Article 89(6), the State lawyer also provided information which is not included in the proposed report, which relates to the criminal offence of hate in accordance with Article 89(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the Court of Justice of the European Union. The criminal law and the criminal acts of discrimination against gender equality, according to the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination and the Law on Gender Equality, as well as the criminal acts of racial hatred, have asked members of the Committee to present these data in the 2011 Report of State Lawyers so that all representatives of the Croatian Parliament may be familiar with these criminal acts. In the case of the determination of specific reconnaissance measures of proven actions temporarily restricting certain constitutional rights, in particular in the case of so-called ‘so-called’. "touching", i.e. by listening specifically to communications, it has been pointed out that the given data needs to be explained more precisely. The report found that 82% or 719 out of 879 were issued at the request of the USKOK for the crimes of organised crime and corruption. The remaining almost 20% is not more detailed. In particular, the problem of leaking information obtained by listening is being turned into media conduct. And that's what the state's attorney himself agreed to. In addition, the rights of third parties which are accidentally covered by this measure are directly challenged, although they have nothing to do with the criminal offence under investigation and, of course, the proceedings themselves are under investigation. The members of the board requested further explanation of the data indicating a significant drop in the number of reports from the offences of domestic violence and the finding that this does not reflect the real state of these offences but that the reason is that parallel criminal charges and indictments are no longer filed with the offence. After the debate was held, the Committee voted unanimously 9 votes for, decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to reach the following conclusion: A report on the work of the State's attorneys in 2010. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2568	Thank you. On behalf of the Justice Committee? You don't have to. I'm opening a debate, and I'd like to inform you that on behalf of the Clubs there have been seven representatives of the Clubs and 25 for individual debates. The first is Mr Dragutin Lesar's representative on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2569	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, your honor. You have quite shyly said I will make it clear that there is no doubt of course that it would be far more useful, more meaningful that we discussed this report in early 2011. Because today we are discussing what happened in 2010 just to satisfy the form because the law so requires, it is not good and it should be a lesson and a lesson to continue whatever reason this report has been standing on the agenda for so long, that this is no longer happening to us. The institution, this Report is too important for the functioning of the rule of law in every country as well as in Croatia, and I think it is not good for us as a Parliament not to discuss this report in time, we are giving a message that we do not care that it is not good. Perhaps this debate would be ideal if at least at the last session before the election we got it. What has puzzled me for the last two, three years, and this 2010 is covered by this period that significant progress in the efficiency of all state attorneys in Croatia is the trial, trial and condemnation of some changes in political will. Well, there was no political will before, so then, suddenly, the political will came and we have big processes that have caught not only tiny chickens and those who steal bicycles in the markets but also those who have acted in high government duties. I always thought that the work of the state's attorneys and investigative bodies was in general from the police to the judiciary always a consequence of the legislative framework, respect for the law, reading, reporting, processing applications, filing of indictments or rejections, but we learned that in Croatia there is not enough legislative framework but there must be some kind of political will. Now whose political will is decisive in the success of the work of the state's attorney. Political will in Croatia or somewhere else? Everyone agrees, it was written a lot and said that it was finally possible to process all the big ones in Croatia. Now, from this report, since it refers to 2010, I am still not convinced that Mr Bajic and all his associates, assistants and deputies have all or at least part of it, we will be able to see that when the 2011 report comes, which I hope will not be discussed in 2014. But it's not the state's attorney's problem. It's us in the Parliament. I know that investigations are secret and that any information or information on investigations or investigations must not be spoken publicly but I cannot resist not knowing which times I do not ask what is the matter with those affairs or cases for which it is not disputed that a corrupt or criminal action happened, only that we cannot determine who was in Croatia on the other hand. One of these examples is Deimler, it is known who was giving, how much was given, but we cannot determine who was receiving it in Croatia. I saw in the media the other day that information was requested from the US authorities, why not German and how it is possible that in such cases, which are the items of import corruption in Croatia from the European Union, representatives of the European Union never lectured us on these cases, but on some others. Hypo, discussing the 2009 report on my issue about Hypo, Mr. Bajic said the Austrian authorities were not meeting. If there were a lot of problems in this international co-operation, help, whether the case still stands. We also have the case of Patricia where a bribe investigation has been launched in Finland for someone in Croatia but we are not informed whether an investigation into who received it has been launched in Croatia. Now I'm only asking on these three cases, can these items be classified in that political will syntagm, because then obviously, if political will is not enough only in Croatia, but elsewhere. Now where it's all somewhere else, I'd really like to understand once because I'm going to admit that I really don't understand why political will is so important when it comes to this area. Two things I did not find in this report but, at the very end of the opening argument, Mr Bajic mentioned one of these topics, the first chapter of the criminal legislation is Article 114, which regulates the criminal offence at the expense of labour, workers, collective contracts, pension, health and social insurance. In this report, Mr. State's Attorney, you wrote only one finding that 281 applications were made in 2010 and nothing more. What was the fate of those reports? Who are the applicants? What crimes under Article 114 were the subject of your processing, how many of those 281 you rejected, and how much further did you go on? Where do the most common crimes occur when workers' rights are violated? Why have you been avoiding this area so clearly and forcefully in your report for the third time in a row? This is the third report when you refer to the violation of labour rights in the part of the criminal offence only to the finding of how many there were. Because if that's all it is, good for us. In Croatia, we have no problem with criminal acts against the interests of workers either individually, or organised in trade unions, whether it is laws or collective agreements. But we all know that's not the case. We all know that this number 281 doesn't reveal or even 10% of the actual sum, because Article 114, we don't know until recently how it's going to be in the future, interpreting it as chewing gum in which it was meant to prove that there was an employer's will that it wouldn't give the worker anything. So, out of obstetrics, he violated labour rights. That's what I resented you so far, I resent you now. And the second area is economic crime, and you mentioned in the last sentence of bankruptcy proceedings. If I remember 27 cases correctly, eight convicts in the end. Why did I think of that? Now I don't know if those convictions or charges were for that area of possible crimes in the bankruptcy process, but I'm worried about something else. What happens in these companies that end up in bankruptcy proceedings before the bankruptcy proceedings begin, so I will remind you and illustrate you. "Kamensko-Zagreb", "Djakovština", "KIO", "MTC Factory of Wash", "MTC Factory of stockings", "Jadrankamen", "Dalmacija wine", "Biocalnik", "Dalit". What's in common with these items? In the year to two before the opening of the bankruptcy procedure, employees individually, organised through trade unions or in different ways, warned and filed reports to competent state attorneys, doubting or even trying to prove that they were sucking money out of these companies, that they were doing machinations and malfeasances only in order to lead the company to bankruptcy, but before that, they had so much debt that they would not be able to charge even 5% of their claims. I have up on the bench copies of 20 of those applications that went to the competent state attorney's office and which were all rejected. All these companies ended up in bankruptcy proceedings, in bankruptcy, and all these bankruptcys end up being liquidated. None of these bankruptcys have been completed by reshuffle, no one has continued at least partially production, and then when you reveal after the liquidation, then you come to the point that it was actually a struggle for land or other outstanding assets. Why the Company Act Articles 251 and 626? What is the law on bankruptcy and, in particular, Article 4 which just obliges that when it is only one of the legal conditions for bankruptcy proceedings? Therefore, it is either incompetence to pay for more than 60 days or when the debts of the company exceed the value of the assets, it must submit a proposal for insolvency proceedings within the next three weeks. How many administrations or board members in Croatia have been sanctioned for disobeying these legal provisions and initiating bankruptcy proceedings on the 61st day of inability to pay? Why do we all stare at the fact that after two years, the conditions for bankruptcy last and no one opens it, and at the same time, the company still becomes the subject of borrowing part of the owner, just one or all, according to the model and recipe? Five companies, five companies. The production halls are owned by company A, machinery owned by company B, workers employed by company C, goods going exclusively through company C and of course the only one who gets money from sold goods and services is those companies where workers are and then the director's wife starts a savings-credit cooperative that finance and borrows, borrows money from the company to pay salaries, rackets and cameras for a year and makes them bankrupt. And this application was given to the competent state attorney's office and, of course, that the company in Karlovac had specifically ended up in bankruptcy. I can't understand that from so many warnings, reports filed, proofs of these items that I have given you, it wasn't possible to react so long ago until the debts came to such an extent that workers couldn't collect their claims. In your conclusions, you have often warned the Parliament that you have appealed, suggested and offered some solutions to the improvement of the legislative framework, this time it has lagged out from which I conclude that you no longer have a problem with the legislative framework as was mentioned earlier. And now I'm gonna end up with one warning that we didn't know after. One such preparation for bankruptcy is happening to you today in the middle of the city of Zagreb. Both the Vesnik List and the Vesnik printer in recent years have been brought into such a debt that they will have to go bankrupt. One and the other. First, "Vjesnik" will be given in "People's New", then yesterday I learned that "Vjesnik" is actually now owned by Croatian mail. Strange but true. A printer in charge if she didn't have a debt would be hard to find a buyer, but with no debt at all, and will end up in bankruptcy with liquidation. And what's in the background? The center of the city of Zagreb, property, land and building. Now just look from now on and back who's in charge of these two legal entities and who made 20 mortgages on that property waiting only for a moment when workers will lose their nerves and start a bankruptcy procedure themselves to at least get their work books so they can apply to the Stock Exchange. I am now telling you, for two years it has been working to end this location in the center of Zagreb through a bankruptcy procedure in one hand. The amount of robbery in the conversion of the '90s and today through bankruptcy proceedings is roughly equally devastating, equally valuable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2570	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS club, Ms. Representative Nada Turina-Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2571	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Chief State Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. So here's a report that, of course, is the first and main observation that it's a little out of date, that from 2010 and really the HNS expects the next report for 2011 to be in front of us in the first half of this year for the debate so that all the statistics you've given in the report that are quite exhaustive and I think that the report is very quality-set so that we can really and realistically compose this report with some past data and present some views on the work of the State Attorney's Office by analysing statistics at all. I don't think it's really an opportunity to talk about statistics today because what's shown in this report, if we compare it to the one in 2009, is that in quantity, means in the processing of the case, in the state of the State's attorney's office, the indicators are relatively good. So in a quantitative sense, it's done well. In a qualitative sense, this may be what we are more interested in, and the HNS is particularly interested, in a qualitative sense, it is very difficult to assess in this mass of numbers whether the very things that are most in the focus of the public, which show the maturity of our society in terms of quality justice in our country, are they saying that we are dealing with the right things and that these things are dealt with in a timely manner or something else is happening anyway. They say the justice is slow, but if it is of course available and that is, all of us can wait for justice, however, the justice system must be professional, it must be fast, it must be effective and it must be independent. Then from that judiciary and from that right, citizens can benefit and then it's worth something. If it's only available in some distant future, then it's worth nothing to our citizens. So I say here the data and statistics show good trends and that is something that we as the Croatian People's Party will of course welcome. As a rule, the numbers do not lie, and they explicitly state that the results of the work of the State's Attorney's Office in 2010 have led to some shifts. I would even look back in one section, so in some segments there has been a reduction in the number of reports committed, which has been explained by the attorney general that something has been resolved in the infringement procedure and this part of the case has fallen. However, perhaps in one part of which I seem to have read to me at the HNS that perhaps even as a society, we have made small but certain qualitative shifts as a society means that we actually have less in a small part, but still a little less crime. We believe that quality work of the State's Attorney's Office has a significant impact on the overall social climate and on citizens' confidence in the entire system of our country, not just in the legal system. For what? In recent years, we have all seen that we have focused specifically on the public's focus on the work of the State's Attorney's Office. We know why, because they were in the process, or in the investigations they were very high-ranking state officials. Somehow, the hope of our citizens opened up, and I will speak openly to our parties who have particularly advocated effective justice, has opened up the hope that we will quickly, what is said to be cleaned from the head and that in this State's Attorney's office will be the key lever and key foundation that will quickly solve it. Now here we are on the other question I said, which is the quality and even perception of that quality. Not wanting to diminish the importance of so-called small objects, I think someone mentioned the theft of bicycles, how important it is of course to those citizens whose bike was stolen. However, cases in which our senior state officials who are our representatives are under investigation for 20 months, and I come from a city or region where a very high official has been investigated for 20 months. We in HNS think that, except that it is of course a terrible burden to function under such a person, to function in 20 months in such a position as a person in a responsible place, how terrible it is for citizens who have given confidence to this person to run such a big city, in this case it is about the city of Rijeka, not to talk about what others think about us, or whether in those 20 months any honest investor would come and talk to the mayor who was under investigation that damaged the budget for some millions and millions of kuna. Is it realistic that any honest and quality investor will come to talk to such a mayor? And our country, we're right in that situation, waiting to get us... On many occasions, the European Union has warned us today that we need to solve such problems, to solve such cases now and here. [[You don't understand.]] You have great powers, the State's Attorney's office has great powers, and that results in great power. HNS, and I believe that the vast majority of MPs in this House will warmly support you in all the proposals and in all the steps you will take to solve these items at the highest speed possible. You will, of course, estimate at what speed you can, but if there is any doubt, if these objects are solved for 20 months like I said, then you are either incompetent or manipulated. And that's a waste invaluable. So here I say HNS, and I believe most of the MPs here will support you in all the suggestions that will come here for your more efficient work, faster work. You wrote in this report, we'll see in your 2011 report if anything has changed, but you wrote in this report that you're having trouble with the resources of personnel, material and everything else. That's a question we have to solve, that's a question you have to solve. If this is the main or one of the main problems that the state's attorney's office cannot handle cases in due time. Here, therefore, we will support this report, expect a quick new report, but we also expect everything to be done because the focus of the public, the interest of the public, and not only in the Republic, but also outside it is just aimed at solving all these accumulated problems lately which are most linked naturally to corruption. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2572	Thank you very much. On behalf of the IDS Club, Mr. Representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2573	Your Honor, Mr. President, State's Attorney, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Of course this report should be supported. I also have an impression of why the DORH report for 2010 was not discussed in 2011. Why? To prevent the debate from turning into a debate over the former prime minister, more specifically the then government. One word that the assembly would not turn into a political arena or rather a standoff before the 2011 elections. Here's what we haven't discussed, maybe it was best, but let's get back to the beginning now. I have said many times that there must be a policy responsible for opportunities in Croatia. She was doing the conversion, she was doing the privatisation, she was doing the "Storm" thing, in what was happening in these areas in the country's management from 2004 to 2009, and something like that at some local levels, etc., but I also said that the DORH might have acted differently, say '91. It wouldn't have come there in '92. to emigration, for example. from the military dwellings of the people who lived in them. That the DORH is, for example, the DORH. sanctioned some crimes committed on the Croatian side in '92. I don't know in the Paki plain or in Osijek there would be no tragedy elsewhere. That DORH was '93. sanctioned the conversion maybe there wouldn't have been an PLIVA, maybe there wouldn't have been any of these privatisations in our banking sector, maybe there wouldn't have been anything that Mr. Lesar had just talked about if DORH had stopped me from knowing, or rather sanctioned those fires on "Storm" wouldn't have been the case of Daimler, Verona, Salzburg or what I know is what it's called. Clearly, then, at the head of the DORH, and it should be admitted to being some other people, it was another time, but it also says that people from the Croatian judiciary were very much guided under the allegations of "rudimentary time" by people in politics. Today everything is different, let justice be done even if the world fails only so that the processes that are being conducted in Croatia don't turn into God's political processes. Don't let God answer in this country but I don't know, let's just say, the former prime minister between him and those up to 2 or 3 thousand euros, and that between these 2 and 3 thousand euros, they're all penitent. I'm not going to talk about some of the cases they've confirmed, so I can say that these TLM Aluminium also confirms in those decisions all new governments. We see what's just happening, what's going on here. I would really like to know honestly because even though we from the opposition two years ago were against that law that de facto beatified what was done until two or three years ago today it was confirmed by the new government and we will see how it would end. What are we gentlemen doing in this country with conversion? What about privatisation? What are we going to do with that war profit? And the answer is sure as hell we won't do anything. For 2 or 3,000 euros in this country, clearly everyone will have a clear bad time, and for 20, 30, or I don't know how many million euros or 200, 300 people are today the pillars of society. We see clearly this 2010 report, 2010 was a year of economic breakdown. After 1.07, there is a change I will say this kind of mini change at the head of the government, it comes there at the end of the year the new president of the Republic of Croatia, I am not saying that because we all know what happened after that, but I think that at that moment the state's attorney was beginning to accept those contours that were expected of him by Croatian citizens. I also dare to say that the people in the state's attorney's office are in some way the choice of Croatian politics. I'd really like them to be maximum independence, but the question is whether everyone in the state's attorney's office is independent. If only they could be independent? If they as well as MPs were to be, these are some examples from America and I know of some other countries, they may be elected directly in some of their constituency units. I just don't want people in the Croatian judiciary thinking about what they want from them at some point in time, state policy. One word I want them to stick to the allegations of the law to paraphrase a great Croat like, in fact, he said a little differently, like a drunk float. Clearly, Croatian laws are also an expression of the will of people in politics. Accordingly, sometimes man does not know which death to die from, but Croatian I would say the legal standard today is even for the spear above that in Britain or Italy or Germany or Austria because there is almost no way to arrest the first people of the state. In Croatia it was logical, expected, I think so, I'm not far from the truth. I am in that position to be so clear and state's attorney and behave but I am also convinced that it is far from the truth that one Italy is less corrupt than Croatia. But we're the country and that paradox. Croatia is a country of conversion, i.e. privatisation, Croatia is a country that has left economic power to large capital, and today it determines opportunities not only in Croatia or Croatian power in some parts of the Croatian judiciary. They are the ones who determine the Croatian future and who perhaps I would say, through some media, determine interest for themselves or for their employers. I will say once again, I claim that the Croatian judiciary acted in 91st, as it does today, there would be no war crimes on the Croatian side, there would be no burning in the Storm, there would be no conversion, there would be no guessing in some earlier periods. On page 11, there is a table on the movement of applications to legal persons, 2006. 588, 2010. 1549. We have the Public Procurement Act, I don't know if you know that, for example, under this Public Procurement Act, people in local self-government units, i.e. administrations, responsible persons, but not in the state administration or ministries that have 30, 50 or 150 times more money than local self-government units, and then man asks himself whether it's logical, it doesn't make sense, it can't change the DORH, but it needs to change Parliament. For the end I am absolutely for this Report, but the point is in the next I will not say that DORH in the previous elections, God forbid that, even at the end of my mind, it did not help me, the Kukurik coalition, because without the DORH, the Kukurik coalition would win, but also the Croatian judiciary and Croatian politics are co-responsible that we are where we are at this point, in a word not even among flowers would say Krleža nor always the right. The other same thing that interests me alive, are you gentlemen still present in DORH in 2010 today in some electronic media, here I am specifically thinking of a television house with which I have been on trial for three years, where the object of the dispute has passed 220, 250 thousand kuna, and I would like to know whether these judicial or police bodies have made any insights on Prisavlje. Because if someone can't say what they're thinking at some point, then there's no media freedom in this country, there's no right to speak, the Institute of Immunity isn't worth anything anyway, it doesn't matter, there's no constitutional freedom, we're not a civil society in one word. In one word, the report will be de facto that report for 2011. Secondly, why perhaps the Croatian economy or some investment in Croatia is standing, so I would dare say among other things, and therefore because of these properties, the State Attorney's Office is talking about it on the side of 86th almost every initiative of cities, the municipalities are blocking, which is why the DORH is dealing with the permanent "examination of historical works in the country's library courts", okay, representing the state ok, but among other things very often blocking very serious investments at local level. I think the time has come to put really heads together, that it doesn't matter what the state is, which is local, but to do something, to invest, to build on the condition that those who run these jobs, these jobs don't run for themselves, but to lead for the citizens. I almost lost the trains, not to drive all of us, but to normally do so according to the law and my own conscience. The state and cities are constantly arguing over the land. It is extremely important that this tourist land, without any kuna, is acquired by these transformed tourist chains that are mostly owned by foreign property. Part of the State's Attorney's Office is my court open on the side of that capital, it's bad, it's wrong, it's unspective, it's kind of dared to show the most valuable Croatian resource. The state's attorney is talking about the war crime for 2010, I think 58 applications, 71 indictees, 13 convictions, that must have been done a lot. In fact, what took the 1990s was done to make some opportunities different, to make Croatia less compromised. And as for the end of these bankruptcys that Mr. Lesar was talking about, I think we have in Croatia at the moment where 85 to 90 thousand companies are talking about. Somewhere between 20 and 25 thousand if not more of these companies are insolvent, so they should open proceedings before a competent commercial court within 21 days of the bankruptcy law. If commercial courts can solve everything, I don't think I can, just before the Vesnik case was mentioned, but are gentlemen different on Croatian railways, shipyards, dozens of other state-owned companies. What needs to be settled legally by me, it's not the State's Attorney's office again, if someone's running a company doesn't meet some obligations, can't open a new company, take some place in the state administration, etc. It is mentioned here that the struggle for land, perhaps, but who at this time invests in Croatia and on the other hand, when I was talking about the Vesnik in 10 years, has withdrawn 700 to 800 million kuna, today I read it in one press, politics will make a decision, I'm afraid of shutting down institutions among other things and Vesnik is it, God forbid to outlive us all but the question is whether some others will agree that every year 50 million kuna goes for one such medium. All in all this 2010 State Attorney's Office report is to be accepted, and I said the real report will be the 2011 report.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2574	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Mr. Representative Milorad Pupovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2575	Mr. President, Mr. State Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. The SDSS representative club believes that the 2010 State Attorney's report is a report in which many facts can be seen and in which you can see the real state of affairs not only of the State's attorney's office, but at the same time the real state of our justice system in general, and it is not only judicial. And in that sense as much as we may have individual objections to this report we think he's good at both aspects. From the aspect of showing what the current activities of the State's Attorney's Office are, at the same time, from the aspect of showing the real situation in the state. In that sense, I would refer on behalf of the SDSS Club to several aspects or several sides of this report. First, as regards the procedure for enrollment of the Republic of Croatia over land of water, forests and the like. is a process that has been going on for several years and in which the Republic of Croatia or the State Attorney's Office is relatively effective in registering the Republic of Croatia and the local self-government units where they are registered as owners in land books, and the cataster includes specialists who are rarely owned for not three years, but 30, 40, 50 years and then by the right to file and by a number of other rights of use should actually be enrolled in land books. We have discussed this on several occasions with a state attorney and we have found that there is a great danger of harming private persons who, for various reasons of this in the last 20 years, are not to be specifically talked about, so war chaos, unsettled communication, unsettled communication with the state and with the institutions of government, and especially in the earlier period when people for various reasons did not sign up for ownership books and can now be done on the one hand harm to those people, and on the other hand, damage can be done to the state, because different disputes that have already opened up will also be the cost to people and will be the cost to the courts themselves. In this sense, it is our proposal to the State Attorney to find ways to establish control that this is not mechanical and it is not automatic, but to invite people and to give them the opportunity to show whether they are the real owners of what most people are, regardless of who it is, whether it is an island area, and we know that it is often an island area and whether it is an area of special state care, and very often it is an area of special state concern. The second topic is the topic of intoxicating drugs. We record an increase in drug abuse and the report is exhausted in this regard. And this increase is especially recorded among young people, among young adults and minors, and that is what is a worrying phenomenon in our society. And there is no doubt that the increase itself represents a worrying phenomenon as well as the fact that it repeats itself from the report to the report, which is that it is in fact sanctioned mainly by those who possess fewer amounts of drugs, without sanctioning those who possess larger quantities of drugs or those who release drugs into circulation means those who actually earn money and who represent obviously organised groups and organised crime in the area of drug trafficking. In this sense, it would be extremely important, some of which we heard in the State's Attorney's speech, but it would be extremely important if the State's Attorney's Office were to propose to this Parliament as well as to the Government measures that should be taken in terms of changing such a trend, changes in the trend of increasing drug use and the continued maintenance of the trend to sanction only those who find fewer quantities or who find quantities of easier drugs that are often found to actually be legalised. And instead of discussing this, we are discussing whether easy drugs should be legalized or not, and during that time, big fish and big traffic, dangerous drug trafficking takes place unhindered by the living or by our institutions of government. The third thing I want to point out that the state's attorney himself specifically pointed out in his speech is the issue of trial for the most serious forms of war crimes, or for the most serious forms of crime if war crimes are of a different type where for the first time in the report we get some specific information about how many murders we have, how many perpetrators we have known, how many perpetrators we have who are unknown as well as how much data we get about how many who are being prosecuted. So, from 590 and some cases in war crimes trials 109 are all being prosecuted at the moment, and 490 unfortunately are not. We know a lot of cases. Last year when I spoke here about the 2009 report, I mentioned Varivod and Gosic. I mentioned cases in which war crimes were undoubtedly committed, but our institutions failed to establish that they were war crimes. Just as our institutions failed to determine Mr. State's Attorney in the 14 claims filed for damages caused by terrorist acts and public demonstrations that these were terrorist acts. If it is for people to mention Sisak or Karlovac or some of our other environments where people were staying in their homes or Bjelovar and were blown up along with those houses, and now it cannot be determined that it is terrorist acts. It would be hard enough just to peek into the professionally drawn up infrequently I say, not always, infrequently professionally drawn up reports of the police back then. In that sense, it seems to me that when it comes to the war crimes trial that it is necessary for this Parliament and the State's Attorney's Office to create mechanisms to speed up the war crimes trial process and better co-operation, especially with countries in the region. As for the topics that some colleagues like Lesar and counterpart Cain spoke about here, so those who in some way represent our socio-economic situation. If this is, and there's no reason not to believe that things are like you, Mr. State's Attorney, in your report,... in the field of labour disputes and payment claims based on their assessment of lost labour rights, they amount to nearly 19 billion kuna and that it is 7 billion kuna more than it was for 2009. [[You don't understand.]] You estimate that these are far above realistic estimates. And even if they're 60% above real estimates, and I can't dare say it's 60 or 50 or 70, it's huge sums. In other words, if it is not 7 billion growth, if it is only 2 billion growth, it is huge sums and huge amounts that are referred to the state, in which the damaged persons expect the state to protect them and make up for them more. We should, apart from this solid and concrete report, we should also analyze. What exactly is this about? That analysis should be done by the competent ministries and we MPs should get a more complete and detailed picture of the real situation in this regard. The third thing is liquidations and bankruptcys. No third, I don't know which one. If, on the basis of the tax, it's most likely that 2 billion kunas are left unpaid, so what are we actually doing? We need to save, we need to cut in health care, in education, we need to cut in culture, we need to cut in a series of segments, and because of the way bankruptcy is realized, in which the liquidation is realised only the state will remain unpaid almost 2.5 billion kuna. How is that possible? We need an answer to that question as to how it's possible, not just an answer to the question it's done to different types of marifetteluks, you shut down that firm where you got into bankruptcy or you shut down with liquidation, you open up a new one, and you avoid fees and taxes to the state. We need that, too, but we need more than that. The last thing of these issues concerning the situation is not as much in the socio-economic sphere as in the legal sphere. According to your report, or according to the report that we received from Mr. State Attorney, colleague and colleague, in 2010, we recorded an increase in the violation of the right to trial within a reasonable time of 8.3%. This cost the country 33, nearly 34 million kuna, which is less than 42 million kuna in 2009, but not because the total cost is lower than because the state decided to pay less because the number of items had increased. How is it possible that those of us who have concluded the negotiations, who have found that we have improved the work of the judiciary, in fact, in the last year, why we spend 33 million kunas, 34 million kunas. So this House is being stripped of 35 million kunas for its work, and we find that 34 million kuna last year has been paid for a violation of the fundamental right to trial within a reasonable period of time. Mr. State Attorney, we can't thank you any more than we thank you for this data, but we need more answers to questions. As possible, why such things happen, how in such circumstances it is possible for the state to save anything and what sense there is savings under such circumstances in the state. So we can neither guarantee people what is their fundamental right in terms of their legal certainty, and on the other hand we cut them off in their economic and financial security. It's simply not the purpose of the state, it's not the purpose of our action. Mr. State Attorney, before I conclude, we'd like to see more information or some information on the procedure under the official duty of the State's Attorney's Office, especially in cases of hate speech, especially in cases of hate crimes. I'm not going to say that a recent Split case has asked me to ask you how things are about how it's possible there's no sanctions for shouting in stadiums, how it's possible that there's no sanctions for messages that can be seen in public places, how it's possible that this institute isn't using anything more. And finally, as well as the chairman of the Committee on Human Rights and Rights of the National Communities, Mr Radin, and we from the Club of Representatives of the Independent Democratic Serb Party think that the State Attorney's Office and USKOK should keep at least last year's level of resources necessary for their work. If your report shows that 12 is missing and I don't know how many replacement positions there's no reason for what else needs to be improved and filled in to limit the improvement and fill in. Especially with a picture like this I took out only in one part, and which you have shown in, if not in whole, then in a significant part or in basic contours. Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2576	Thank you, too. On behalf of the SDP club Mr. Representative and Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Josip Leko. Here you go. Just a minute, excuse me. Just to let you know that at 11.40, the deadline is 10 minutes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2577	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. State Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. So at the beginning of the presentation on behalf of the SDP Club, I can say this – The 2010 State Attorney's Report shows that the State's Attorney's Office has achieved a legal task of both size and quality. I can even say that the statistical report is optimistic. What, though, does the State’s Attorney’s report serve after a full - year period? It is not democratically acceptable, it is not a democratic standard, nor is it normal for a representative body, so the Croatian Parliament to answer to the state's attorney's office, not to discuss the State's Attorney's report for a whole year, to skip it. Especially when we know that the state's attorneyship is an institution that in a legitimate and democratic way represents the power of the state. Why am I saying that? Well, because it is the role of the Croatian Parliament to oversee the work of the state's attorney's office. Namely, colleagues and colleagues, there is no legal institute or other democratic institution that can oversee the work of the state's attorney. That is why it is a failure for the Croatian Parliament to achieve its constitutional function to really be a major failure towards the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Why do I say that? Namely, this report contains other than good statistics and very good reviews and questions referred to the Croatian Assembly. If that's true, I'll quote on the page. 5. one paragraph. Namely, State's Attorney's Office is a body of prosecution. His fundamental right and duty is to persecute the perpetrators of criminal acts. The other bodies, primarily the police and individual administrations of the Ministry of Finance, are authorised and obliged to carry out and disclose the perpetrators of criminal offences, submit applications to the state's attorney's office, and this often depends on their success in the work of the state's attorney's office." And secondly, I would like to quote again -- "it is known that by giving greater authority to the state attorney and police in criminal proceedings, there is greater efficiency, but in this case there may be serious violations of fundamental rights and the freedom of individuals in the Republic of Croatia." The task of the Croatian Parliament is not only to observe whether the state's attorney's office has successfully fought to accuse all those who have committed crimes, the task of the Croatian Parliament is to control the state's attorney's office not to accuse anyone, and he has not committed the crime. It is possible, and I have already pointed out that there is no legal institute to prevent possible errors, as well as abuse of the state's attorney's office or other democratic institutions to control it, it is possible to do so. I especially must stress this because, in very specific circumstances, it often happens that the media judge before the prosecution by the state's attorney or attorney's office and before the court's trial in the Republic of Croatia. One of the experiences I've gained in the work of the State Judiciary Council. According to a tender for the selection of criminal judges from 25 candidates, 23 of them have foreseen, as judges, as an independent body, such as those who do not look either left or right, are blind to the influences of police or lawyers, say their option is co-operation with the police. That's the rest of the time he made me say it here. Here's the second situation, here's the state's attorney for a reason pointing his finger at inspections and police not to give him quality information and a quality basis so he can accuse a fair, fair and legal perpetrator of a crime. For that reason, Mr. State Attorney, I think it is very valuable that you point out some more things in a report that you cannot solve, and make up the problem both for society and for the Croatian Parliament and courts. In fact, you find that according to the principle of opportunity, that is, you often do not act against the perpetrator of small-value crimes, which is most often in the case of intoxicating drugs, but you do realize that drug abuse is increasing. There is no reaction from either Parliament or there can be reactions from the state's attorney's office. So at first, I asked what the State's Attorney's Office was for? In fact, the negative developments in juvenile crime structure are also an assessment given by the State's Attorney General in this 2010 report. Is it one of the other bodies in the Republic of Croatia that is tasked with examining and finding measures that will reduce the number of minors entering the criminal area? If we don't have that, then this report doesn't achieve the purpose at least in this segment. There are still such high-quality conclusions that the state's attorney's office is raising the question of our reaction, delayed by a year. There's one more thing I want to point out and all of this is to see from this report. Despite the perception of Croatian citizens that the Croatian Parliament creates conditions for them and decides on their lives, this is most often not the case, in the hierarchy of regulations, most often sublegal acts or interpretation of laws by executives or other state bodies affecting the quality of life. This is the best indicator, for example, when it comes to this report in the field of labour disputes, especially working disputes with the state administration. In fact, the vast capacity of the state's attorney's office from the state's representation is being used, and they are often aware that they are losing the dispute. Such as I would say silence by parliament, it tells the state's attorney's office that he can write it in every report, and I've read four reports, four last reports say it, and there's no reaction to the concerns the State's Attorney's office has on behalf of law enforcement. In fact, once again I will refer specifically to the problem that the state's attorney points out, it is police work, it is a 2010 report, tax and customs administrations. I agree with a state lawyer on behalf of the SDP Club first to face each other, the first to see a violation of the law or a criminal offence in the creation of inspections. More likely from the police, very specific crimes. This is why, in my court and our court, the State's Attorney's Office and all 1461 workers in the state's attorneys' offices rightly demand that and this is written again in the report to provide them with a better material position to carry out their duties, it is indeed in the interest of the Croatian Society. But it's our job to find a model, a democratic institute, a legal institute to prevent errors and abuse by a state's attorney or a state's attorney. It's a special problem. I'm coming back. It's a leak. In fact, the state's attorney finds several places that the adoption of the new Criminal Procedure Act and the Law on the State's Attorney's Office have, in some ways, significantly strengthened the role of the State's Attorney's Office in finding investigations, reconnaissances for determining criminal offences, but for such a responsible function, it must have all the tools at its disposal. I hope that 2011 is a good experience that will not be repeated and that the state's attorney will come with a report but not with a repetition of conclusions, but ask for conclusions in the Croatian Parliament that allow him to implement the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, the Law on Criminal Procedure, in accordance with the expectations of Croatian society in this part must be established by the Croatian Parliament. If we get a better insight into the crimes that Mr. Bajic here has been saying are on the rise, and there is no suggestion what needs to be done, I will consider this report missing. So I tried, since this is about the 2010 State Attorney's Office report, when the response to the necessary things is less necessary because we expect the 2011 report to talk about the problem relations between the State's Attorney's Office, the Croatian Parliament, the courts and the Croatian Society to take a step to ensure that criminals are captured, legally prosecuted, and that those who did not deserve this situation do not come under criticism or public impact because it is our job in the Parliament and the State's Attorney's office to separate each other. We will vote to accept this report.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2578	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2579	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Chief State Attorney, fellow MPs and MPs. To begin with, it is very important to stress that we are pleased at the HDZ Club that Mr Leko said on behalf of the SDP Club that he supports the 2010 State Attorney-General Report, because in the 2009 Report conclusions, as long as Mr Bajic's chief state attorney enjoys the trust of the ruling majority of the coalition, it was then the Croatian Democratic Community with its partners that unfortunately there is no alternative. Here we are pleased that today you are supporting the chief state attorney because we all see together that his work is successful and that the alternatives for Croatia certainly has. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we have a 2010 State Attorney's Attorney-General's report ahead. The HDZ Club accepts this report and would disagree with the thesis that this is too late for the report. In fact, problems and attitudes in the work of a state attorney exist today. This report is only continuous and continues to work on Mr Mladen Bajic's main state attorney for everything the State's Attorney's Office and the Croatian Assembly has done in its contribution to the protection of interest above all the Republic of Croatia, but especially all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It is important for the HDZ Club to point out that HDZ has just initiated changes to the Croatian Constitution because we have proposed strengthening the independence of the main state attorney, the State Lawyer's Council, the State Judicial Council and the State's Attorney General. We believe that this has made a strong contribution to the completion of Croatia's negotiations for Croatia's entry into the EU and has also made a strong contribution to the conclusion of Chapter 23 which today was the monitoring of the European Commission's monitoring, we believe that we have made a strong contribution to our proposals and moves to fight corruption and organised crime in the Republic of Croatia and that our government, the HDZ government, led by President Kosor, has made a strong contribution and hit a strong foundation for the unreserved fight against corruption and organised crime in Croatia. It is one of the main negotiations for the conclusion of negotiations both for the democratisation of Croatia and for our country's entry into the EU. If we also follow the laws that have improved your work, Mr. Chief State Attorneys, the Law on the Abuse of Assets for Crimes, which came from organised crime and corruption, the Law on the financing of political parties, where we have brought the strength of legal solutions to the financing of political parties into a firm legal framework to prevent corruption in political parties first and foremost. And it should also be pointed out here to the Croatian public that the action plan for all public enterprises in the Republic of Croatia has reached a conclusion and a decision that an action plan must be developed to monitor the fight against corruption and to prevent corruption within public enterprises in the Republic of Croatia. This is all a very important factor, that is all the Croatian public needs to know and that is all that relies on your work as chief state attorney. Otherwise your report to the Croatian Parliament and Croatian citizens would make no sense that in this joint work both you, the Croatian Police, and also this political strong framework of the Croatian Parliament and the Croatian Government there would be no success either. I would not agree with Mr. Lek's thesis if you had the power to protect the power of the state. No, you protect the interest of the Republic of Croatia through your independence and through the legal framework that you were created here in the highest representative body of Croatian citizens in the Croatian Parliament. You are therefore with us and a representative of Croatian citizens and you, together with us, protect the interests of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Your 2010 report as well as all other reports so far is thoroughly, professionally written and in your report we can monitor the movements of both the state of criminality in the Republic of Croatia and all the problems with which you and the State's attorneys and the deputy state's attorneys, as well as the Croatian judiciary as a whole, are located. What is important is to say, it is strong and it is necessary to support your thesis. I followed your 2008 report, for 2009 and this for 2010 staff expertise, training staff does not have the quality application of the Criminal Procedure Act if people working in the State's Attorney's Office are not sufficiently educated, are not professional enough and cannot monitor the time in which we live. So the HDZ club gives you the main state attorney, and here in the Croatian Parliament we specifically note full support that your staff, perfecting your staff to provide funds for all people working in the State's Attorney's Office. Because it is very important that the law must be implemented if people who can follow the time in which we live, the time of modern technologies, the time and sophisticated crimes and crime simply cannot follow the trends in the past. Because as the laws progress and crime progress, so does the law avoid and organised crime and corruption in large parts always find ways to play the laws. In this you have full support and I believe that what you have problems with human resources where you say it is very difficult to find the personnel who are willing to report for work at the State's Attorney's Office. That's a little sad. And if we want the quality and strong interests of the Republic of Croatia of all our citizens, then we need to further motivate people who will work in the State's Attorney's Office both with their salaries and with their opportunities to be trained professionally and thus contribute to the quality of your work. If we will better monitor what has been happening in our country in the past two, three years when you, Mr. Chief State Attorney, have fought hard against corruption and organised crime together with our government and Prime Minister Mrs. Kosor, in some countries in the neighborhood when you so strongly engage in criminal and corruption pores when a message from the Croatian Parliament and from you, Mr. Chief State Attorney, but also from the MUP, then there is a danger that the leaders of such a struggle are both the target of crime and the mafia and above all those who want to remove and liquidate such people from the political scene. That is why you have maintained yourself, and that is why you have contributed with your work, and it is a clear message here from the Croatian Parliament to all those who break the laws and who deal with crime and organised criminal and liquidation and damage to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia that this is the end of whatever name and last name of the political party, the Croatian people, above all, the Croatian Parliament, but you chief state attorneys need to give assurance and security that we live in a country that first rests on the laws on the basis of the Constitution and on the basis that we are all free and secure in the country where we live and work. In particular, we point out that the HDZ Club will adopt and propose a conclusion to the Croatian Assembly that you, Mr. Chief State Attorney, are asked to examine the way and how it is possible that information on the confidentiality of the investigation into the testimony of witnesses on very important facts which are actually and legally very much valid and for the court to have such statements and such evidence come before the means of public communication in the media rather than in Croatian courts. This directly violates fundamental human rights from the State's Attorney's Office but also prevents the work of the Croatian judiciary. Is it impossible for the public to get a certain picture through the media of the cases and cases you are investigating and taking to create a different picture if Croatian courts are based on the laws and rights they are working on, and we want an independent, professional and impartial judiciary, to make a legal and constitutional decision if the Croatian public or the media have already created a picture that the person who is the subject of your investigations has already been convicted in advance. It is something that we must prevent and it is something that the Croatian Democratic Community club will ask you to conclude, because it is impossible that what is secret and what is very important for the case itself and for the Croatian judiciary itself will continue in the investigation and judicial proceedings, it is impossible for people to find themselves guilty in advance. It is something that is a major blow to the foundations of the Croatian judiciary, something that is affecting the very foundations of the Croatian Constitution. And we, the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community, Mr. Chief State Attorney, ask you to end this kind of work in the State's Attorney's Office and exactly what we said at the beginning, support your requests for additional financial resources, for the expertise of your staff, for the impartiality of the people working in the State's Attorney's Office, but we do not allow Croatian citizens, regardless of the forms in which they find themselves in front of your bodies, to be ashamed of the public before they reach the conclusion of the judiciary or the courts of the Republic of Croatia. You will always have our support in your work, we will not return to the past when this current ruling coalition has not supported you, we have always supported you, we have supported you in every report and every one of your work. It was crucial for the HDZ to close the cases to the end and conduct investigations regardless of who was involved, even if there was a door to the HDZ itself and some people who were the main people of our party by yesterday. You have received our full contribution, you have received full momentum in your work and we ask that indeed the institution independent of you and which is very important for the security and future of the Republic of Croatia, our citizens be truly independent, impartial and professional, and that the people who are your employees, officials, officials, be adequately paid for their work, for their first and foremost professional work but do not let what you cannot go public with before the court adopts a sentence, come to any medium. This is your task, and this is what the Croatian Assembly through the HDZ Club specifically empowers you and prays because it is an interest primarily in the independence of the Croatian judiciary, but thus in the legal certainty of the Republic of Croatia and of all our citizens. We will continue to support and monitor your work, you have full support in your work. You are also a particularly strong foundation for our country's entry into the European Union, and we want the State's Attorney's Office, the Croatian Police, the Tax Administration of the Republic of Croatia and all the institutions of the Republic of Croatia to work in the interests of citizens, in the interest of all those for whom we have received mandates here in the Croatian Parliament, but also you as a chief state attorney because your mandate comes from this House. You have our support and we ask you to continue working in the direction and in the trend that you have shown that you can do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2580	Thank you very much. Next for the word on behalf of the Club of National Minorities, respected representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2581	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. The National Minority Representatives Club believes this 2010 report on the work of state lawyers is appropriate from a methodological point of view. I would say that this report is particularly valuable when it comes to human rights and the rights of national minorities, but in particular human rights, both in the process of investigating and possible collateral victims and, of course, to the public, or rather to citizens who are legitimately expected of state attorneys, that as real as it is in modern society, it protects them from crime. The data presented in the report, but from our point of view, even more those that are presented in the booth, which are presented on some committees and concerning hate crimes, and those data that are also sorted by gender equality criteria represent a real treasure of very useful information, so much so that the proposal by the attorney general, the attorney general, to call them Separats, becomes an integral part of the next report that we look forward to for a few months, of course, that proposal cannot but be supported by our club, as I believe from all MPs of this House. Yet in the very nature of this case many problems remain open. It is useful to also point to some critical points, after commending the methodology, without repeating those already presented in previous discussions, which we simply subscribe, in particular to the findings that even the obvious signs of racism in Croatian society are manifested using the relative anonymity of the stadium. I say relatively because the stadium should finally apply what is in the laws, and the laws say that those stadiums and those facilities are not under surveillance, which were not under surveillance until I think two years ago, exactly the date was laid out, that they must be kicked out of the competition. It's never happened, it's never been applied. I say relative anonymity because of all the stadiums they have in Croatia only Maksimir is partially under surveillance. So the police can't work at all, not doing their job and law enforcement can't see at all what's going on in that anonymous stadium where passwords are shouting not only against members of other nationalities, other religions, but also other races. Let us remember what was directed to players who have, whose only sin is to have a different color of the skin. So I'd like to refer this appeal to the state's attorney so we can deal with why sports don't comply with the laws, maybe it's not appropriate to say sports, it's not appropriate, but why local self-government, why city councils, why those who own stadiums don't respect the law. I think the deadline for video surveillance of the stadium was, I won't be wrong, but probably two years ago. No one opens their mouths about it, no matter what party they belong to or what political color. That is why I welcome the efforts made by the current minister of education and sports to finally introduce a little order in sports. So without repeating what has already been said, but I want to underline these hate crimes, and clear signs that there are these clear racist manifestations that clearly exist in our society and that can be escalated if this problem is not controlled and manifested and well manifested in stadiums, but also in graphite as Mr. Pupovac said before using in this case a little relative anonymity of darkness and in that darkness, I would say that the authorities of persecution never look back. I'll remind you that in previous years, except, of course, everything that's been said here has not been sanctioned by any acts of insult, for example, I'm talking about it because I'm more directed here, the Italian state symbols, we remember the flags that have been burned, etc. No one, no matter what they should be under video surveillance, has ever found anyone. Not to talk about discrimination and insulting members of national minorities and in general all those who are different, especially some national minority. It is therefore important that the data given here are attorneys, employees are also lawyered by the national composition of lawyers, but it should be said that these data are only global, so they cannot give more precise insight into the extent to which the constitutional law guarantees the right to represent members of national minorities in the state's attorneyship. Namely, Article 22. The Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities is laid down in this Article to ensure that members of national minorities are represented in judicial bodies, including the State's Attorneyy, in accordance with the provisions of a special law and other acts on employment policies in those bodies, taking into account the participation of members of national minorities in the total population at the level at which the judicial authority is established and taking into account acquired rights. Here we have one global data that says that there are 94.1% of Croatians in the state's attorney's office, 3.46% of Serbs, 0.69% of Montenegrins and less and less, of course, other minority communities. But we do lack data for certain regions so as to say indicatively where they can be compared to the population. The following report should therefore provide data on the national composition for each level at which the State's attorneyship is established and compare them with data in the national population structure. According to the law, and how is the report in the report on the case also found? The sixth organisation of the State Attorney's Office in the Republic of Croatia consists of the State Attorney's Office, the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime and the County's State's Attorney's Office and the Municipal State's Attorney's Office and that these data should be provided for each of these levels of organisation of the State's Attorney's Office. As far as I'm concerned, I'm saying some critical points that are important to, which are important to underline and highlight for the subject of the protection of the rights of national minorities, of course, some, right? And now, finally, we return to the moment of that problem that has had a lot of echoes in the papers these last days, and that is the problem regarding the temporary restriction of certain constitutional rights. Personally, when it comes to the so-called "tapping", i.e. listening specifically to communications, and here it is generally thought that these data must be more accurate in the next report. Because 82% of the orders, of them 719, I think a lot of them, of the total of 719 is issued, or 719 out of 876, 82% is largely issued at the request of the USKOK for the crimes of organised crime and corruption. But there's still another 18%, 20% that's not more specific. Of course, here in addition to that data and here I'm opening up one bracket would be good to have, it would be good for people's representatives to have from time to time and those data that may be more interesting than these 80% or these 20%, and that's the data that the Supreme Court is considering and which permits for the security of the country. Of course, no one is asking to do to the public what public by the nature of the business should or should not be, but framework data should also be brought here to know how many people have been tapped by us and what are the reasons for these permits that the Supreme Court gives. I'm opening a parentheses because it's not about the state's attorney. Of course, the Attorney General must be concerned with information leaks. On the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, Mr Bajic himself expressed his concern about what the data leaks. The way that we are presented, the way data is available would suggest, according to Mr. Bajic, who was quite convincing in the fact that the data does not leak from the state's attorney's office. The proof is that while the data is only within the state's attorney's office and these are the data that are within the scope of the USKOK's work means those previous actions which are secrets, which are not yet public domains, we are told from that space to say that no data has ever been leaked. It means that these data leaks at the moment they become too public the moment they become limited public, it means only to the participants in the process. This is also the problem, however, of the state's attorney and, of course, the Ministry of Justice and the Government to find ways to mark these documents in order to reach those who violate the rights. And not only that, and in this way they violate both human rights not only of people who are in the process, not only of the process itself, but of collateral victims, meaning all those who somehow appear in these phone calls that can be quite people who have nothing to do with the procedure. It's still a problem for the state's attorney to put an end to it. It has been said that in large procedures, given the number of lawyers that, for example, integrated listening visits go to 50 addresses, which secretaries and all employees in those 50 offices, it is very important for the protection of human rights to be controlled completely to control the privacy of this data. And finally, I want to commend one more state attorney and I want to thank him for, especially on the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, having referred us to some things we really didn't know and which we know a little better and which we want to know even better in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2582	Thank you very much. First notice, the 2nd session of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government of the Croatian Parliament will be held today on 15 February 2012 at 12 o'clock at Janko Drašković's Hall, 202nd floor. Thank you very much. Now we're moving on to an individual debate of ten-minute MPs. The first to discuss was a respected colleague of MPs Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2583	Thank you, Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Every time we discuss the report on the work of the State Attorney's Offices, we must remember and always keep in mind the provision of the Constitution, article 125 of the Head of State's Attorney's Office. The first sentence is spoken and I will never quote it: "The state's attorney's office is an independent and independent judicial body authorised and obliged to act against the perpetrators of criminal and other criminal offences, to take legal action to protect the property of the Republic of Croatia and to submit legal remedies for the protection of the Constitution and the rights". Why is this important? It is important that the State's Attorney's Office in its work relys on the help of police, regular forces and however well-trained it is, in fact individual actions by nature of things, should and under the law can only be carried out by the police, only by regular force. I'm going to point out that it's no secret except that it's not done anywhere in polite countries, at least not in public, that the police are having a coup against the state's attorney's office. That was never possible under our law, except for those mustache times until 53 when the police were investigating. Since 67, it has not been possible in these political areas, at least not legally. And therefore, we are not fooling ourselves in many much more democratic countries, the police in a secret way try to pressure the judiciary or the state's attorney's office, regardless of whether in some systems, the state's attorney is not an integral part of an independent judicial authority, but belongs to an executive, i.e. in a direct or indirect manner is part of the executive authority. For this reason, not only because of the new CAP, which has said in its pronunciation when it is the State's Attorney's Office and how we all agreed on it when we did those preparatory actions and the new Law on Criminal Procedure under which the State's Attorney's Office will take over the investigation. The police are working under the order of the State Attorney's Office and it must be made clear and loud, but equally tumultuous to each and every single one of them, regardless of which political group they belong, that it will never happen again that the minister speaks in advance here, in front of us in front of the Croatian public who will investigate and who will not investigate. To do so in a courteous democratic country, not only would the minister fly away, but the entire government would fly away at the same time, and the minister would be pleased not to end up where he belongs in a fairy tale. That must never happen. So more than anything encourages words, it's the first time, we have to admit the first time it was publicly spoken to the Croatian public, I'm sorry that it didn't come across a bigger echo but it's crucial, where the minister had the strength, a very short time ago, 20 days ago, the Minister of Interior Mr. Ranko Ostojić, who publicly said I will try and do everything to make the police what needs to be a service to the State's Attorney's office. It's the only way, not just legally, that it's formed, but if in practice it works that way, we can have guaranteed success. When actions are carried out to detect, process, provide clues against the perpetrators of a crime, the state goes to war against a certain harmful criminal and dangerous event. I can't do it by the logic of things, there can't be two lines of command in that sense. That is why it is also said in the Code of Criminal Procedure, on several occasions and in several places, that police will act on these orders and within what time limit. But also other state bodies and any other natural and legal person, however, it is not yet so we are witnesses that it still doesn't work in practice so that the State's Attorney's Office can wait for months sometimes and more for a state body to be able to give some necessary information. Of course, then the public is bitter, which is done, nothing is done, etc. Therefore, such a discipline must exist because we are all here to place the role and position of the State's attorneys as a whole, and thus to raise us all up and not down. I think it's past time and it can never happen again and it can't happen what happened. There's a lot of evil unless the perpetrators of criminal acts are persecuted, but if innocent people are persecuted, then it's twilight. We had a case that the police, not only filed charges, but that they pressured the State's Attorney's office to that extent that they asked for amendments to the State's Attorney's Law but still the pressure we had here, and the State's Attorney's office opposed it to control the rejection of criminal charges. So in what country do the police control the rejections of the state's attorney's office? State's Attorney's Office, I'm not here as a lawyer of the State's Attorney's Office, and she can make a mistake, maybe sometimes and often the police will be right. But if we set up a system that the police will control the State's Attorney's office and its rejections, then we're all in trouble and that can't happen. The best drug is in that direction that the State's Attorney's office has gone, and that's to publicly explain the decisions. And there are no doubts, therefore, whether there are any murky business in one stage or another, depends on the stage in which a certain procedure has come, so to speak, transparent treatment and public explanations. So that's why one application was rejected. Of course, when it is adopted and it is later or later investigated, then it is clear because it is also contained in certain legal acts of the case in question. So we need to consider this one provision where the police are participating in complaints, complaints whether the State's Attorney's Office was right. Although the police have no dominant role to play in one person, that sounds bad. We as a democratic country police finished their job at the moment when they handed over their own criminal application or then... /The speech room was excluded./... in several cases unhappy, but then it is not a way to try to control the work of the State's Attorney's Office. So, once again, I point out that what the State's Attorney's Office is doing by publishing certain procedures, that discards are the best remedy for the correctness of handling in concrete cases. What also worries and what is being set up year after year and what the State's Attorney's office is saying every time, and we're deafening ourselves. I think this is an alarming situation right now. See what we have hired the police and ultimately the entire after-repressive apparatus and fortunately that there is that institute of minor crime or the principle of opportunity which is used by a large number and with the right of the State Attorney's Office to reject criminal charges in relation to minors most often when it comes to criminal acts of drug abuse, and that first item is the easiest item in drug possession. Here you can see you can follow up on the page. It is clear in the report that 70% of reports were rejected compared to younger adults and 68% of reports were rejected compared to minors. Now we have to imagine where we spend our budget money and what the purpose of it is. Of course, we must work on amendments to the Penal Code and react in such a way and differently. I would also like to point out in particular about the crimes of corruption and organised crime that it is still sad that, despite the fact that we have abolished the statute of limitations, the Penal Code must experience its change because it is not possible and we must not look at it here peacefully so that complete property can be robbed in Croatia and that the maximum sentence of prison is 10 years. It's just unacceptable. And as for this civil part of the conduct of the State's Attorney's Office, I ask that the state's attorneys act in favour of citizens who are truly committed to the obvious claims that the state must recognise in one way to reduce not only the costs but also to act fairly and fairly in relation to its own citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2584	Thank you very much. The next thing you know, the esteemed representative, Josip Kregar, appeared. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2585	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Attorney General. When I thought about how to start this little convenient speech this morning, I imagined or thought about a picture saying more than a thousand words. And the picture is next, Mr. State's Attorney sitting alone in front of us a hundred as if he were the subject of research and interrogation. But as the weather goes, it seems to me it's the wrong picture. I guess it's in such a statement that they probably serve honor and pride and... encouragement and the expression of political will, as it was said to continue their work. Of course, he will assess for himself how much he needs it and how sincere it is. What I really should start from, however, I'm only three things to point out is one dare to say sensationally good statistics that shows that over 4/5 of all cases of the indictment ends with a sentence in relation to when dealing with civil proceedings is also a very high percentage. It's something that's a measurable positive effect. Such a thing, such statistics deserve all praise. After all, it was particularly stressed on the committee. But there should be three things to pay attention to. First, the right is not tested on routine things and small values, but on... as it says... on those most important cases that occupy the public's attention and according to which we will indeed test the ability of our lawyership and the judiciary to change the laws of the Republic of Croatia. And I wouldn't say this if there wasn't anything in this report that points to difficulties. If you look at the report, it is indicated that courts have a tendency to impose conditional and very mild penalties in relation to what was the request of the State Attorney's Office. Of course, this is not the result of the opportunism, of the judiciary, but indeed of a great pressure to solve what is otherwise a social problem in this way, and this has also been expressed here. Unemployment, labour disputes, etc. They're not the problem with the State's Attorney's Office, they're the problem with our economy, the government as a whole. This is the end of the one pressure chain with which the State's Attorney's office is handled, and we can't be satisfied about it, that is, before the state's attorney is satisfied. If we exempt this truth from these questions regarding the possession or dealing of intoxicating drugs or funds. The second question that has little impact on the persuasion... of statistics is actually selectivity in selecting cases that are being processed. And secondly, insisting on the principle of opportunity as a criterion when assessing whether a case will be brought to an end. And I bring this, however, also in connection with... Circumstances in which we are. [[You don't understand.]] We live in a society that is eager for justice and that won't explain that it's worth something so it doesn't deserve to be processed. In doing so, although I understand practical difficulties, it should be extremely careful and avoid the fact that it is about selectivity, in fact, then it collapses on small cases where people test righteousness or not. The second thing I want to point out is the fact that the State's Attorney is also a state's attorney person and an institution that has very high citizens' trust. This shows not only research but also the fact of a large number of applications. He wants to trust one such institution because people talk. If they thought it was under government control or the government of political parties or politics in general, they wouldn't have done it. However, research, and especially each other's circumstances, which I point out, and this is an assessment by relevant foreign assessors, is very good. In all those progress reports, the Croatian State's Attorney's Office also earned great support and a positive assessment. This is something that must be reiterated in a conversation like this and must be respected. The third thing, not to exceed, concerns certain areas of risk that are presented in this report. First of all, it's a matter of organised crime, and Mr. State's Attorney has also pointed out that there's little surprise about the crash data. It's just that the difference between normal business and crime is very vague, that it's actually worth the rule don't ask me about the first million, and then I'm an entrepreneur and I'm fair. This is about certain capitals, new funds that have been achieved in not entirely legal and fair ways, including and quite severe forms of crime, serving as the basis for the continuation of large business empires. It's not an easy situation, it's not to be investigated, it's not the law that's helping but its own indeterminateness a major disturbance. Another disturbance regarding what is being pointed out is the lack of adequate personal experience for such cases. It is a very serious thing because in Croatia there is no problem with street crime, intimidation. The problem is the large capital in which the financial operations are a component. We cannot stand up to newly admitted people in the State's Attorney's Office but by systematically developing knowledge and opportunities to solve such things. The issue of cooperation is also mentioned here as a very important issue. We've got here, we're not going to discuss it yet, let's say the State Audit Office, which is a little scary, but I'm not going to talk about it right now, but that points out that there are reasons for the initiation of proceedings at the State's Attorney's Office, and I'm not sure that's exactly how widespread and common practice is. We have a lack of co-operation with the police and the use of their resources because they can't afford to handle everything by themselves or the State's Attorney's office. And of course, third point is the public pressure issue. It's not easy being in the skin or at the scene of a state's attorney and reading a newspaper that you don't know is going to declare you... , in which you will be positively or negatively evaluated, in which your case will be ruined because the facts will leak to the public early in which witnesses may hesitate and intimidate. [[You don't understand.]] These things, which I have cited, however, are in favour of the conclusion that it is necessary to support the Government of the Republic of Croatia's proposal to accept the report because this report, too, has been made fair, with an indication not only of those things that go in favour and contribute to a positive assessment but also points to certain difficulties. Our decision on acceptance is also necessary because it shows the political will, at least not still in resources and people, but certainly in the intention of supporting the State's Attorney's Office in its action and this assessment that the Government is sending us is measured, timely and should not turn it into a psychologicalization of the relationship between this person or that person. This is about a principled attitude, and the Parliament should accept this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2586	Thank you very much. Next for the word of the esteemed representative, Ana Lovrin. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2587	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Attorney General. Here I will, as I have seen in my previous years, support the State's Attorney's report for the reasons I think, as well as in previous years, that it has been developed professionally, in detail, analytically and that it tells us about the state of affairs in the Republic of Croatia, as well as about the state of protection of the property and legal rights of the Republic of Croatia, as well as about the work of the state's attorneys. We have already concluded that we are now discussing the 2010 report, of course, which we think is too late, but here was a specific year of election. This report was drafted in August, the Parliament was disbanded in October, so it could have been about a month of the Assembly meeting, it was not in order and as we hear the main state attorney that the 2011 report will come soon and I hope that we will discuss it during the first half of this year and then this report will actually be relevant because it will also talk about the time of full application of the new CAP of course how much Croatia and the attorney's office are prepared and in the capacity of the officials themselves in the State Attorney's Office, but also in ensuring the resources of space and equipment. All these reports so far I would say about 2009, including this one for 2010, about continuity, progress in the work of the State's Attorney's Office. Here I am, but it would be interesting to know the reasons why the Government is now giving us the opinion that the report on the work of the State's Attorney's Office is very professional, thorough, and that it provides a demonstration of the good work of the state's attorneys, that a high degree of urgency and quality has been reached, etc., although the same people who are in the government today, and then they were also in the name of the opposition's club of representatives, then they severely collapsed on the 2009 report and on the state's attorney who is here today before us. And that report for 2009, the state's attorney says, here's a quote in this 2010 report. "that the state's attorney's office has managed to maintain the existing urgency and existing success." So in 2010, it didn't move forward, it kept that good up-and-coming. A good update is an up-to-date stay below 3 months, and success is the only success that the State's Attorney General has said is the success of the convictions. In this report we see, as in 2009, that it is truly excellent, that it is approximately depending on the individual county state's attorneys, it varies, but it is almost everywhere more than 70% and up to 90%. These are extraordinary results. Who remembers the debate about state's attorney's reports there somewhere in 2005 when many MPs attacked the courts to obstruct, not to judge, to protect crime. There's a lot of things that's been said here. Then we asked with shame the quality of the work of the State's Attorney's Office, because the court can judge by the basis of what the State's attorney's office has given him, the evidence it has given him. So here I am pleased to conclude that over these years the state's attorney's office has greatly improved quality, of course and as the State's Attorney General reiterated today, the results are better because the state's attorney has tools. First of all, the tools gave him this Croatian Parliament by adopting a new Law on Criminal Procedure, but also by a number of other laws, and also systematically increasing the articles of the State budget for the State Attorney's Office, and mainly for the USKOK and for the increase in human rights, but also the resources for the work of the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime. Of course these good results, they were recognised not only this year but also last year, and the European Commission in its Progress Report and, of course, those results mainly in the fight against corruption and organised crime have contributed greatly to the temporary closure of Chapter 23 and the signing of an access contract. This is about success, I would now look back at a few segments of this report and some of the things that have already been mentioned here. First, I will commend the real application of the principle of the Oportunity of the CAP and the principle of insignificant work of the KZ. We see from the report that the rejected applications are almost 70% compared to minors and seniors. What we see from the report, and in some ways he has been sued by the state's attorney to vary from one state's attorney's office to another, as well as by the fact that they vary from a direct indictment to a request for an investigation. I'd like to point out here to the state's attorney that he may reach out to the institution of a mandatory warrant and, of course, not in an individual case, but as a guideline to the state's attorneys to level the practice of law enforcement primarily for the purpose of the effectiveness of criminal proceedings. One more thing, and that's what the Human Rights Committee has warned us about, and we've heard here every time I discuss the State's Attorney's Office report, I ask the same question, and I get the same answer from the Attorney General, and that's the colloquial information leak. Of course, first of all, I believe that the leak of information is extremely bad for the course of the criminal proceedings and for the effectiveness of the criminal proceedings because on the one hand it determines the detention, and very often then compensation is paid for unfounded detention or for long-term detention, etc. For reasons of non-influence on witnesses, while at the same time all of them and potential suspects or defendants are well-influenced through the media, we warn of anything that could be written to them. When we ask how it's possible for all of this to come from phonograms, phone records, etc. In the media then we get an answer repeated by the Attorney General and yesterday on the board that in the pre-examination phase, the warrant to open an investigation never leaks anything but only after they've met the subject of the lawyers. No one in the state's attorney's office suspected it was dealing with information from the state's attorney's office. No, but we didn't get an answer why the state's attorney's office doesn't reach out to what's at his disposal. And I'll read, this is an article by the USKOK Act saying, "Without the Director's approval, no data on criminal prosecution in the cases referred to in Article 21, unauthorized publication of this data is a criminal offence of the release of official secrets referred to in Article 351. KZ." And now let me not read article 351. KZ, therefore, is referred to as the following: the criminal offence of publication and the making of accessible protected data. So it doesn't matter who put the information out, who in some way brought it out of the state's attorney's office or the USKOK, it's important who was still publishing it. Only publication is a criminal offence that is being prosecuted by official duty and I ask why there are no proceedings against those who have further published protected data? And here's the time I'm running out of time, but I'd still like to warn you about something that also seems extremely important to me, and what we're reading from this report, which is in the civil section of the state's attorney's office, so where is the representation of the Republic of Croatia in property-legal requirements? Here I congratulate the state's attorney's office on 83% success in cases where it is represented as a prosecutor. However, what has already been said here is that where the state's attorney represents the Republic of Croatia as a defendant, success is only 33%. It is not the guilt of the state's attorney's office, these are the demands of citizens who belong to them by law and who have no way to defend the state's attorney's office, but it should certainly be an alarm to all the state's authorities so that they do not challenge their citizens by law, and that after that the same state and all of us together have to pay not only judicial costs, the work of the attorney's office, but also their lawyers and their fees and tariffs. Here, but despite everything, I commend the work of the state's attorney's office and this report that is before us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2588	Thank you very much for your presentation of the esteemed colleague has one replica. Honorable representative of Shima Luchin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2589	Thank you very much. I know it's a data leak, let's just say it's a serious problem, but I didn't understand my colleague Lovrin being prosecuted by journalists and publishers. Perhaps it would be wise to consider actually changing that provision. Maybe to determine the stages when it's a secret, when the secret stops being, because I think it's Sisif's job because never, ever, sued you journalists or not, will always be logic, you can call it public interest, interest in profit to make certain things public. But when I went in this direction to replicate you, I don't understand one thing about how you don't know how the data leaks. The Croatian state has such a large, equipped secret service, it is not clear to me that no one in the secret service can find out within a few days where some document leaked. So we also don't understand how we have problems with organized crime and that gray zone, when we know that secret services have a big part that actually deals with organised crime. So I think there are instruments that are not only in the state's attorney's office, not only in the police, but also beyond, that some things are being prevented but let's think about whether to actually change the legal solution of the investigation, the secrecy of the investigation, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2590	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2591	That's what I'm saying. To prosecute those who have unauthorizedly published protected data, the state has the right to do so and it is not true that it is not known where the secret is and where it is not secret, because the new CAP, which has made this secret of the investigation a little less lenient although the secrecy of the investigation into the explicit demand for European gain is something legally required to enter into the CAP, and later it is a little tempered. Therefore, the conduct during the investigation is classified, the body must warn of this, and where there is an interest in the public and other justified reasons and is not contrary to the interests of the investigation or other provisions of this Act, the authority conducting the investigation may decide that certain proven action or evidence activities are not secret. The body will therefore decide whether there is an interest in the public. And what I'm thinking right now is that's exactly what the editor and editor are after because the protected state data has been published, and you said here that, you said something interesting, public interest, interest in profit. The interest of profit is not a public interest, the interest of profit is an interest of someone to gain the property benefit of a very narrow part of people, so no one would say that their interest is in the profits of a few. Therefore, the public interest can be justified, and the body will judge whether it damages his investigation and allows him to publish it, but when the body says it and when it is secretive, then no one has the right to obstruct the state, obstruct the prosecution and the investigation and publish it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2592	Thank you very much. Next for the word respected representative Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2593	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. State Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. What we have heard from a lot of colleagues and this is a dissatisfaction that we are discussing today in 2012 on the 2010 State Attorney's Office Report we have heard the terms obsoletely I would not agree that this is an outdated report, it is data that cannot be outdated but it is certainly not appropriate for us to discuss the State's Attorney's report so far, although it has been a long time ago. However, I believe that, as my predecessors have mentioned, they expect the 2011 State Attorney's Report to be very soon or at least the first half of this year, I believe it will be further practice. In any case, I am pleased with this Report, of course, because it contains in a comprehensive way data on the state and movement of crime, the actions taken to protect the property interests of the Republic of Croatia, the work of the state's attorneys and the material and staff status of the same. I'm going to look back at some of the segments of this report, some of which we've heard in previous discussions, but I think we should give them special attention in the future work and conduct of the State's Attorney's Office. So I'm going to go in a row because I think there's some data on one side, of course, and in the best reports, copy-passes happen. That's how he stole from you on page 9. Reports under point 3.1.1.1 of the crime movement text part, not in line with the table because the figures from 2009 are shown as figures from 2010. In 2010, 51 thousand 916 thousand were filed against the known perpetrators and the unknown 34 thousand 423, which is 1% lower in known or more in unknown perpetrators, and the same is true in the cases against legal persons. It's the same big result that's been submitted 10% higher. In the report further, I believe that it should be stressed through the data of the first-degree rulings of apostrophyd oscillation in the performance of individual state attorneys. It's really about significant differences. The success of the procedure is, of course, satisfactory globally at national level, but individual state attorneys deviate from the average in the number of judgmental decisions, which is from 81.3 to 95.1%. You yourself were not satisfied with this, so you were as satisfied as, although I was not in the previous term, but I looked at the 2009 State Attorney's Report and then ordered the State's attorneys to carry out certain analyses and that, on the basis of certain analyses and conclusions, the state of affairs changed its approach, so in the same way for 2009 and 2010, I would really personally be interested in the 2011 report whether there was any shift in this segment. Furthermore, respecting all objective circumstances, I also welcome that you yourself are not satisfied with the success and work on the crime of economic crime. The number of criminal charges against official duty and the crime of economic fraud is on the rise, and the success in the procedure of 77 and 56% of the average of 93% is indeed not satisfactory. Not only is the public interested in the work and effectiveness of the State Attorney's Office generally interested in success especially in this segment of abuse of position and economic crime. I don't have to stress specifically what these are all generally known facts. I generally agree that there are objective circumstances that you yourself mentioned in the report, but I do believe that, despite the complexity of these crimes and difficulties in proof, it can certainly be overcome to a greater extent both by pawning and perseverance and training and special knowledge, and, of course, by well preparing and using new procedural provisions, which I hope will be visible in the 2011 State Attorney's report. And very briefly still related to the success of civil subjects. A colleague, Ingrid Anticevic, also referred to it, but I also really believe that it should be given a special emphasis. It cannot be said of disputes in which the State's Attorney's Office is representing the Republic of Croatia as a defendant that it is a matter of success. You said not to yourself. And indeed 32% cannot be a success, but there must indeed be a reaction here in Parliament, of course, and in the executive power to change some things. But I agree with my colleague, Anticevic, and with the State Attorney's Office, which in those cases when representing the Republic of Croatia as a defendant where it is extremely certain and not very certain that the dispute will be lost because they did not respect certain legal or contractual obligations, it is not a good message to the public that the state is turning into one who is clearly litigating. You've shown us very comprehensively in the tables what it looks like in certain ministries and in those ministries of the former government that have been structured differently than these today. So let's say very much in the eye that in the cases of the former Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, 90 disputes were obtained and even 359 were lost. In the cases of the former Ministry of Regional Development, Forestry and Water Economy, 17 disputes were obtained, and even 153 were lost. But what really sends out a very bad picture, which is a picture in the cases of the Ministry of Justice which the Republic of Croatia as a defendant is 69 received, and 238 lost. I really believe that these data speak for themselves, point out the need to show greater responsibility for avoidance of criminal litigation which unnecessarily multiples and cases on the one hand, and on the other hand creates unnecessary and high costs. It is therefore necessary to focus on additional activities in order to increase the number of cases of peaceful dispute resolution and the rationalisation of proceedings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2594	Thank you very much. In 10 minutes, the debate on the report was reported by a respected representative of Peja Grbin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2595	Dear Mr. Chairman, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, Mr. State's attorney. Let me welcome the dedicated and sacrificial work of the state's attorney's office this way. I believe that the State's Attorney's Office has both shown considerable commitment in its fight against crime and in the fight for the protection of the rights and interests of the Republic of Croatia and has contributed significantly to the situation in which we are now. But, of course, the situation can be better, so in my presentation I will point to some of the less defiances in the report itself, as well as certain phenomena in the work of the State Attorney's Office that I am not satisfied with. First of all, as we listened to your presentation today and as we studied the documentation you provided, I noticed that you were calling for first-degree rulings. Well, just as we already discussed on the Justice Committee, I think it would be desirable, so if you could, perhaps, in the final presentation, inform this House of the result of the State's Attorney's Office in a situation where the judgments are taken by law. Because we are aware sometimes that even first-degree courts deliberately pass some judgments at the end of the procedure, or at the moment of age, simply to shift their responsibility for keeping the files in drawers for many years, so that I am interested in whether the result of being shown in the field of first-degree judgments is equally good when we speak of those judgments which result in the ultimate service of punishment for perpetrators of criminal offences. So much for the report itself. And with regard to the work of a criminal suit, I've noticed certain anomalies that indicate that the State's Attorney's Office, which is set up as a strict hierarchical organization, doesn't always act exactly the same way everywhere. Namely, when we look at data on the conduct of the State's Attorney's Office in accordance with Article 28. Article 175 of the Penal Code and Article 175 of the Rules of Procedure. The law on criminal proceedings, or when we talk about acting on the principle of burdensome and insignificant crime, has led to extremely large deviations in the work of individual State attorneys. So, for example. The State Attorney's Office in Dubrovnik, or in the area of the district attorney's office, rejects the application by acting on these articles in 36% of cases, while in the area of Koprivnica we can only talk about 6% of cases of rejection. I think it's an extremely large difference that is unacceptable when we know that the legal order in the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia is the same. So much for the work of a criminal suit. And I'm going to look a little bit more at the work of the Civil-Government Department of the State's Attorney's Office. As we have seen in your presentation, as well as in the presentation of colleagues, the focus of public interest and yours is unfortunately on the work of the criminal department, which is understandable, it is also your vote, it is your call. I therefore believe that after a certain number of years when these two departments were operating under the same roof, the time has come for them to be singled out. When you answered that question in front of the Justice Committee, you said that nearly 200 state attorneys were employed in the work of the Civil Administration Department. Since he cares, you've told us about 20 billion kunas that are in various litigations, I think you should pay a little more attention and even to the separation of these two departments, but here I'm leaving it clean as a thought for the future. But as for the work of the civil-government department itself, here are the colleagues who spoke before me who pointed to something that I would further apostrophe, which is the problem with the settlement. In recent years, the Republic of Croatia has invested considerable resources and considerable efforts to highlight settlement as an alternative way of resolving disputes. Unfortunately, from the report we received, we saw that in litigation proceedings, the Republic of Croatia is as a party to the litigation process. For example. in pre-partisan proceedings, the Republic of Croatia only speculates in about 10 % of cases and when there are litigation proceedings from 19922 of the proceedings that were active during 2010 the Republic of Croatia only settled in about 1% of these cases. I believe that this is extremely small, especially when we have situations like before, it has been pointed out that it is visible from the very beginning that the dispute will be lost and that the conduct of such proceedings will ultimately bring considerable damage to the Republic of Croatia. This settlement problem, of course, is not on the very soul of the State's Attorney's Office, and you pointed out that in your report. The problem is that communication between the State Attorney's Office and the competent administrative authorities is often one-way, which is that you, as the State's Attorney's Office, warn of certain phenomena, warn of some situations, and unfortunately there is not enough response. And that's why we here too need to further encourage executive power and administrative bodies to communicate more with you, not only to listen more to you when you propose deals but also to provide you with information and everything else in order to make situations where... procedures to avoid and reduce costs for the Republic of Croatia. [[You don't understand.]] That is why I would like to see in this report that you have announced in a month's time a single analysis of how much the Republic of Croatia loses in terms of court costs, tight interest and so on in those proceedings that it has lost as a defendant. When you were exposed, you said it was about half of the procedures, the equal ratio of those where as a defendant the Republic of Croatia succeeds and those where the Republic of Croatia loses, so you should see how much these procedures that we lose cost us in these, say, extra costs. Here's what I'd like to conclude, and I certainly support this report, but I think there's still room for progress. Of course, this is not possible for what would make sense that when we discuss the beginning of the year but in that year when we discuss the report we see some progress but here in which month we will discuss again, we will see how you did in 2011, how you managed to apply the new Criminal Procedure Act, and then I hope that we will be able to see these remarks that we are giving you as something positive in the 2012 report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2596	Thank you very much. The next debate of 10 minutes was attended by a respected representative, Sonja König. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2597	Dear Vice President, the Honorable Chief State Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. I will refer to part of the report on the work of the State's Attorney's Office on the issue of applying the Family Law and on the reimbursement of the costs of temporary child support. As stated in the report we are discussing today, the Family Law provides for the jurisdiction of the State Attorney's Office in the return procedures for the temporary maintenance of children. In his report and the State's Attorney's Office, he states that, like our fellow citizens, he faces a series of difficulties in law enforcement on a daily basis. The defendants do not respond to the debates, the court disputes are long-term, although our Family Law prescribes that such actions are urgent. According to the 2001 census, we wait for this new census as a cold sun, there are about 188,000 single - parent families in Croatia, and 258,000 children live in such families. Among them are more than 88,000 minors, half of whom are without restraint, which means that about 44,000 underage children do not receive alimony from parents. Often, a parent or child does not ask for alimony because they do not have the money clearly for expensive actions or are in fear of a violent spouse. In 2010, the State Attorney's Office proposed to access the amendment and supplementation of the Family Law, which has been designated by the Institute of Temporary Child Support, but only states that the amendments have not yet been proposed. Since we at the HNS Club are also aware of the major problems our citizens face in this topic, we will seek to take appropriate measures as soon as possible, including a possible legal framework that would go towards establishing an alimony fund. Such a fund would assume on itself the obligation to pay off the alimony and release single-parent families of long-term court proceedings and debt claims. The Alimentary Fund, therefore as it sees it, is a fund for the collection and payment of alimony, and it aims to assume the obligation of regular payment of alimony clearly with the taking over of the payment risk from the abstention obligors but not as a way to fully finance from the state budget, but as a project that will combine social interest with the interest of institutional capital i.e. investor. Because we believe that the existence of such a fund would provide the money needed for the normal life of children, simplify and shorten the alimony procedures, shift the risk of alimony payments from single parents and children to that alimony fund, increase the rate of payment of the alimony, and reduce the blackmail and violence that often arises in such cases, and this would make it clear that our state's attorney's work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2598	Thank you very much. The next word came from Honorable Representative Zeljko Kolar. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2599	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, Attorney General. Here's what I'm going to say about land. No one talked about it today. The registration of the right of ownership of the Republic of Croatia on real estate is of exceptional importance for the Republic of Croatia. And now the report says how many state attorneys have processed and checked over a million and 512 thousand cadastrian particles, that 987 thousand cadastrian particles are recorded in land books at the Republic of Croatia, that 254 thousand cadastrian particles have been found to be owned by local self-government units, that the offices responsible for spatial planning tasks have been asked to issue legal status assurances for 103 thousand particles. Only these numbers indicate how big a job has actually been done by the State Attorney's Office and the Civil-Government Department, of course, in cooperation with municipal courts, i.e. with land-book departments, with the State Geodetic Administration, or with the Catastries and with the offices of construction and spatial planning, whether it's county or cities. However, there are procedures to measure and establish and reshape land books. So he says on the tasks of measuring, establishing and reshaping land books that are not considered to be regular work, and this is an emphasis that is not considered to be regular work, in particular the establishment of a cadastrian and judicial commission according to the State Geodetic Administration's data in the last 10 years, 84 cadastral measurements were completed and 62 are currently in the process of exposure, and 45 completed measurements are waiting for exposure. 106 measurements are under way and will be prepared for the next year's exposure. These are the means of preparatory actions that other institutions must do in order for the State Attorney's Office to then do their part of the job. However, there have been catastrian municipalities since the 1980s, for which a new measurement was made and was carried out in the cataster, but was not carried out in land books. And the Ministry of Justice does not initiate proceedings for these catastrian municipalities. Here is only in Krapina-Zagorje County there are such 10 catastrian municipalities in the areas of most centres, cities and municipalities where certain economic activity takes place and it would be very important for these new measurements to be carried out in land books. Of course, increasing the scope of the business at the exhibits will require a different team of state attorneys in civil-government departments because these people have to go out on the field and participate in the exhibitions. Also here, a little state lawyer was talking about registering maritime goods, registering agricultural land, and registering forests and forest land. And in this report, we see on page 67 that there are problems everywhere. Even when registering maritime goods, it is mentioned that the process is slow and ineffective. We will see in the 2011 Report that something has changed. But if it isn't then it's an alarm for the Ministry of Justice, for the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning and the State Geodetic Administration to see what the problem is because the land as a resource is very important for the launch of economic activity. And finally a few sentences about the book of public water and public roads. In the light of the opinion of the State Attorney's Office, it will not be possible to carry out the documentation necessary for the registration of public roads according to the applicable rules. A new Law on Public Roads is expected. The new Law on Public Roads was adopted and published in the National No. 84/2011. in Articles 123 to 125, the registration shall be regulated. However, it is not co-ordinated with the State Geodetic Administration what a road parcel laboratory will look like. In both maritime goods and other parts, there is also mention of the deforestation of the plot of these properties. The Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning with the State Geodetic Administration must define a parceling facility, in which it will look and then obtain the conditions for the state's attorney's office to work. It also mentions that it creates major problems and a large number of misunderstandings with local self-government units. Of course, but just by defining that geodetic lab, these problems will be solved. Because one cadastrian particle can happen that one road carrying a single cadastrian particle includes both part of the state road and part of the county road and part of the local road. At that moment, no one can actually sign up for ownership of that road or of that property, and we as units of local self-government, as mayors and mayors, it is very important to have resolved property-legal relations because we cannot apply for measure 301, let's say one of the conditions for cities and municipalities to be registered to land on these properties. So I hope that we will get a 2011 report very quickly and that we will see if there is a shift in these problems that the State's Attorney's Office has caused, and if there is no movement then it is indeed one of the alarms that the other institutions are involved and that they create the conditions for the State's Attorney's Office to do their job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2600	Thank you very much. A respected representative, Sandra Petrovic, came forward. Here's your esteemed co-worker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2601	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Attorney General, colleagues and fellow MPs. In the 2010 report on the work of state lawyers, which was delivered to us here and which we have read, there is a largely correct display of data, statistics and conclusions on cases in work and on the movement of crime in the Republic of Croatia for 2010 whose submission to the Croatian Assembly is the obligation of the Attorney General, i.e. the State Attorney's Office and the appearance and scope of the report seems to me that it is possible to give a positive assessment and that we will accept it. That's my personal attitude. But let me first only comment on a part of this data so that we can access the state's attorney's office as best as possible. First of all, I'd like to look back on that part of the report that's talking about the human resources of the state's attorney's office. The report also says that the state's attorney's office is performed by 53 municipal and 20 county attorney's offices. They worked in total during 2010 as well as during 2009 as I understood 1461 people. Of these 1461 people, 577 are judicial officials within the meaning of the law, so state lawyers and deputy state attorneys, and 844 are officials in the sense of other officials and deputies. The number of officials compared to the number of judicial officials is therefore 60 per to 40 per cent. So, almost two officials come to every judicial official. Not entering the very description of the jobs of these officials, and we know that in principle their task is to assist in the work of the chief state attorney, my superior judicial officer, I believe that their productivity depends on the quality of the work of the justice officials themselves. What you yourself Mr. State's Attorney said in your debate that the overall work of the State's attorneys depends on the work of the state's attorneys themselves and their deputies, and that it is noticeable that the state's attorney's office lacks the staff who will be willing to take over the subject of greater complexity and, in particular, given the fact that you were actually preparing for 2011, the year of the full application of the Criminal Procedure Act. I would like to express my concern with this fact that the full application began several months ago and, as you yourself said the 2011 Report for the first four months of full application from September to December, will arrive at us in the next few months. Whether State's attorney's staff are able to absorb legal changes and increase their powers will show time. Of course, it will be necessary to observe the work of the State Attorney's Office over a little over 4 months, of course that four months are not enough to make a full and systematic assessment of whether the acoustic model has been properly implemented in practice. In the second part of this debate, I will refer to your observations, reports relating to the material financial situation and the need to apply the new Criminal Procedure Act. I will quote one part: "the budgetary resources are not enough for all the needs of the regular functioning of the state's attorney's office because they are often intended for the purchase of basic material resources". In the following text, you mentioned that these funds are spent on the purchase of toners, the maintenance of information equipment and the like, so there is no means to obtain professional literature, because among other things, the activities of the judicial academy are not enough for the staff to receive quality education so that they can assume the legal powers given to them by the new CAP. In other words, you are letting the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament know that you lack budgets for normal functioning and you can imagine that without additional resources, it will be questionable to overcome the challenges that a new Criminal Procedure Act puts before you. In the end, the effectiveness and productivity of the state's attorneys, among other things, is this part of the lack of material resources. The effectiveness and productivity of state lawyers is reflected in the results of their work, and the content of decisions in cases, and in the protection of the interests of the Republic of Croatia, not the equipment of their offices and the appearance of their annual reports. Of course, serious problems in the equipment for work should be addressed but it will only in itself not facilitate the challenges of success in the work of the state's attorneys. In this regard, I encourage you to continue to work successfully to overcome these challenges that you face with full application of the new law on criminal proceedings, and at the same time to continue your work successfully and to achieve further results in the area of the processing of criminal offences from the jurisdiction of the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, which you have started since 1 July 2009 in the new legislative frameworks. I hope that activities will be taken to combat corruption and organised crime, especially economic crime, whose damage to this society of incredible proportions continues, and that we will not only talk about them in the context of a dark crime figure that you have already said is not the subject of this Report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2602	Thank you, too. The word came out for his 10 minutes of debate, Mr. Agent Ivan Klarin. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2603	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, chief state attorney, colleagues and colleagues. I have to say in the beginning that I support the work of the State's Attorney's Office in 2010, I will mention some of my thoughts but I will say something about proposals and ultimately criticism about the work of the State's Attorney's Office. on the 2010 Report. For me, a very important segment in the work of the State's Attorney's Office is access to minor or younger adult offenders. This area of work of the State Attorney's Office can always be sensitive and additional professional assistance is needed when making a decision on sanctions for such perpetrators of criminal offences. Unfortunately, we are witnessing the prosecution of serious crimes of minors or minors, and this information is most worrying. The sanctions are the least used in juvenile prisons which must be for any praise, and most of all beyond the entrenched educational measure, then seductive educational measures and then... juvenile prison. The goal of solving these crimes must be to help young people on the threshold of their lives, to be helped through various associations, family centres, institutions, and not only through punishment, but through the most difficult types of prisons or detentions. As you stated in your report. It is certainly good to coordinate between family centres and social care centres to help young people in the best possible way and to warn them of continuing work on the harmfulness of their activities. The young man working in the community, and by working for the common good, can be moved to different values of life rather than violence and delinquency. Unfortunately, in most cases, children abusers, and children are perpetrators of criminal acts who have been systematically neglected, and they themselves originate in a family whose parents did not care and not so rarely and unfortunately abused their children. Unfortunately, the number of juvenile crime in Croatia is on the rise, and what we are witnessing ourselves through various forms of media information. Recently, there was a serious case in Sibenik of committing a criminal offence by a minor over a 25-year-old in front of an INsite nightclub, resulting in a serious injury to a 25-year-old Sibenik who was in a comatose state transferred to Split for treatment. We later learned that the perpetrator, who is only 17 years old, had over 40 criminal charges filed against him, and that several months ago a girl spilled gasoline on him with the intention of burning it. In such cases, a stricter form of punishment should be shown and such minor perpetrators of criminal offences urgently placed in closed institutions and tried to get them on the right track through closed institutions. Unfortunately, in this case, we are witnessing that various state institutions have failed, and today I ask the question how is it possible that a minor who has 40 criminal charges and is free to walk around the city and on his night out at 5 a.m. in front of a nightclub commits this serious crime where another young man almost lost his life? Unfortunately, he is now in a hospital in Split, even his parents are collecting help for his treatment, and this way I call on all of us to get involved, and this is the Kalaust family. I'm asking what was that young man doing at 5:00 a.m. on a night out? Why wasn't he referred to upholding the sentence for a crime before the crime was committed? How is it possible that the young man was in an alcoholic state and all of this was observed by the security guards of the club outside of which all this was happening? What state do we live in, and what message do we send to parents whose children are on the verge of life today? What institution will take care of such perpetrators, and what is the coordination between the State Attorney's Office and other various state institutions, normally one of the main tasks of care for minors? These things must be from the map of events in the Republic of Croatia by joint action of the State's Attorney's Office, the police, the Social Care Centre, because otherwise I repeat, we send false messages to both victims and their families. It is also a synonym for minor violence and the unfortunate death of Luke Ric, who disgusted the Croatian public in such a brutal way that one young man is unfortunately killed by the hand of another minor who is now smiling to get out of prison. That's what we read about our media. I always find it difficult to advocate what I mentioned earlier in prison for minors but the severity and manner of committing this crime must not allow for freedom, although I would like to stress that it is only my opinion that I am giving in this debate. I would certainly like to commend the work of the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime in 2010. It is important to stress that this office has been deprived of any pressure from political elites in the Republic of Croatia, unlike the police who have written political criminal charges in the mandate of individual directors. Certainly a cheerful fact that the Croatian State Attorney's Office has kept aside all this time while those who filed criminal charges tried in all ways to put pressure on the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. Unfortunately, the old principle of cadija sues you is still present with some MPs in the Croatian Assembly, and they tried to pass judgment in this assembly at the current morning in the first place, which further demeans the work of the Croatian Parliament. I call this way to try to avoid such things to the mutual satisfaction of all MPs or club representatives, and I also believe in the satisfaction of the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. I'd like to mention the situation around the so-called. The Polancec case where in one of the least strange ways came to solve this case without minorising the possible initiation of other crimes, I think I can say that the State's Attorney's Office has acted very strangely at the very least and today, when the State's Attorney's Office has rejected the application against him, I speak for two cases, in the case of TLM and in the case of HEP, it is important to apologize to this man at the very least, at the very least, to introduce a new Institute of Apology. Because when there can be forgiveness, there can be an apology. I don't want to be a lawyer here, but that kind of thing has to be avoided for all of us. Such a media link to this man, knowing that there are also those who have committed far more serious crimes have settled with the state's attorney's office, and if they can say so, they have escaped from it as gentlemen, I repeat, not undermining any other criminal offence in which this gentleman is already powerless but convicted, but investigations conducted in other cases against him. I'm only talking about two cases and I'm saying in general that we should avoid such things for the future for any citizen of this country. So the State's Attorney's Office must be more careful in such cases. Another criticism may not be directly to the State's Attorney's Office in the event of a leak of information about what was involved in this debate, and yesterday on the board where you, Mr. Chief Attorney General, represented some of these findings. So, after every study by Mr. Sanader in front of the jump investigators, the public would know if everything was warm to him, that he was cold in that room, and at the end of the day, all the newspapers would be on the cover tomorrow, as well as portals in the region. The State Attorney's Office must make additional efforts to find the perpetrators of such offences as quickly as possible. In this way, the legal certainty of all in the process is jeopardised and the interests of the National Attorney General of the Republic of Croatia and thus the interests of the Republic of Croatia are threatened. I would like to touch on the very end of the war crimes where the State's Attorney's Office received 58 new applications in 2010. The resolution of these offences was particularly important in the closure of Chapter 23 on the judiciary. I believe that co-operation on the investigation of war crimes is very complex and requires the work of several authorities, where the police with the state's attorneys must do most of the work. I also support the announcement by Mr. Ranko Ostojić, the Minister of Interior's leg, to introduce new suits that would be particularly involved in war crimes and suits that would re-examination in cases of serious crimes most serious crimes against life and the body, where the perpetrators have not yet been found and from which the time period has passed. This kind of... can only help in the work of the state's attorney's office because this state is not safe while any criminal walks free. In the end, I'd say I'd support the work. A report on the work of the State Attorney's Office in 2010 deeming that the maximum improvement of the work of the State's Attorney's Office itself in that year and that there were developments in the resolution of many cases, and what was also discussed in this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2604	Thank you very much. We'll stop working now. I'm going to take a break until 3:00, and I'm going to sign up for my 10 minutes, the respected representative Tatjana Šimac Bonačić. Thank you very much. I'll see you at 3:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2605	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue our work. In an individual debate, Ms. Tatjana Šimac-Bonacic is in line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2606	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. State's Attorney. My discussion may be slightly different in one part, which is that I will only look back at one segment and it is actually legal opinion under specific laws and on agricultural land and on forests etc. According to the Law on Agricultural Land and the Law on Forests, Croatia owns agricultural land and forest land. These laws came into force long before, and most of the lawsuits in the area of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County, i.e. the former Dubrovnik Municipality, were actually filed at the end of 2009. These lawsuits are required to actually establish that the Republic of Croatia owns the land. However, on these properties there was uninterrupted traffic, whether some had entered into the core capital of certain companies in conversion and were further resold, whether they were in fact most of them registered on the basis of the distribution of assets, and in the distribution of property, or in that commission there was a state's attorney's office, so here's the Mljet case where such land was sold and all of this leads to one legal uncertainty, and we're also asking ourselves if it drives investors. We also have examples that the Republic of Croatia registered on the basis of the forest economic basis of Croatian forests, and there was no administrative process of proving that it was the forest and the building land was placed under the forest. We're wondering basically, in any case, the State's Attorney's office has failed. Even if he knew why he didn't warn. Therefore, the damage is also done to local self-government units, as well as to companies, if you look at what I said earlier, and also leads to a legal uncertainty. It's one segment I wanted to share with you or ask you. Second thing, I'd like to commend this section concerning data on minor perpetrators. There are a number of rejections that you have explained according to the opportunity system, and even when we look at the report in those tables, it is evident that there are a number of extra-conductive measures compared to the production and prisons. Thus, minors are resociated in this way through various programs and in their environments, which is definitely both the most efficient and the cheapest system. When we look at these reports, it is seen that younger adults are less punished, on the other hand there are increased reports of abuse of intoxicating drugs, and when we look at minors, we also have increased applications, but there are increased reports of disturbances of public order and peace which again tells us about the problem of the raised one and again that we have to work on preventive programs and that we have to work together. And here I would also mention the Crime Prevention Council where we are all involved by local self-government, police, state attorney's offices, schools, etc., etc. I also believe that such minors should also be working with younger minors and minors to make appointed pronouns for young people and thus the same experts, defecologists, and of course I already mentioned before that we should network as much as possible with all those who actually work with young people. You mentioned that since an increase in drug charges is actually the biggest application for possession and that is why I welcome that you said yourself that it was actually placed on a criminal court, or lower sphere that is less harmful and that better results and that it is necessary to educate not only those who have sinned but also everyone who works with young people. I'd like to say one more thing about domestic violence. In practice, it has been observed that women are increasingly reporting violence. In fact, the police and the attorney's office often place a report on both of them, a man who is an act of violence because of physical violence, and a woman who is victimized by insults and both end up in a misdemeanor court. And it is also a problem that, after reporting, it is often not a good system of counselling and protecting victims, and that is why victims are faced with fear or mistrust in the system, and that is why we should also think about changing the Law on Protection against Violence, but also about the education of judges, the police to overcome these illogicalities. And speaking of women's victims, another sentence, which is also highlighted in the government's proposal. Of course, women who go into divorce who are very often on the verge of existence together with children, that they need help, that they actually stop that path and manipulate them and further abuse. And of course I still support the necessary and stronger cooperation between the State's Attorney's Office, the Police and all other facilities that can actually work to improve the situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2607	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Ante Babic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2608	Your Honor, Mr. Chief State Attorney, colleagues and colleagues. This State's Attorney's Office report was discussed and unanimously adopted on the parent board yesterday, and we got all the reports here on the bench today, so I wouldn't pay much attention to it, except to say that it's exhaustive, that on these 150 pages, we actually have everything that can be read today from this brochure that we got about the report and the work of the State's Attorney's Office. What this report does not show, which is data on the illegal crossing of people across the border, which particularly motivates me, and why I reported for this individual debate, is the expedition and efficiency of state attorneys and criminal departments in municipal courts. And that's what I'm saying for the following reason because the amendments to the Court's jurisdiction law have actually been lifted by the criminal department that was at the Municipal Court in Imotski and the State's Attorney General who actually passed through Sinj. The municipal court building itself in Imotskoma has been built since Austria in 1916, certainly had all the conditions for the criminal department to remain here in Imotskom. I'm sure in the future, these crimes of illegal human crossing across the border will be increased, so it would be good for you, Mr. Chief Attorney General, to urge this criminal department to return to Imotsky and the State Attorney's Office in any way. I believe that, and also through the HDZ club, changes and additions will take place on the jurisdiction of the courts, so we will be able to talk more about it. I hope so, and that's what you said on the parent board when you spoke about this report, that you would support this position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2609	Thank you very much. Madam Representative Ruža Tomasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2610	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary of State. Just a few small observations. As for intoxicating drugs, it's mostly about low-level addicts and drug dealers while large-scale dealers and large-scale drugs pass through. If we want to know how many drugs there are we're just going to count the number of addicts in Croatia times 3 or 4, their annual needs are calculated and how much of it is discovered we'll know how many more drugs there are in Croatia. As far as the war crimes are concerned, you said there were 5,998 dead and killed. I wonder what time period? Does that involve the whole war? And as far as war crimes are concerned, you can't kind of get the impression that it's done at least in some places that it's done selectively because not everyone, it seems that not all witnesses are the same, not all witnesses are credible. Because sometimes when a lawyer proposes to his witnesses, the court rejects those witnesses, and then takes witnesses that everyone else says aren't credible witnesses. It kind of seems to me like there's a time here too when it's done selectively. I certainly condemn all crimes, but justice should be tried justly, and it should be tried, if it's already being tried, then it's up to everyone because justice is equal to everything. I know we're under the pressure of the International Criminal Court, but if we know from whom this International Court gets all the information, then we should sometimes oppose the International Court. As for domestic violence, a couple of times my wives sued to get the cops to come and ask the women and tell me honestly, did you provoke him? Could you have been without it? So a little more education. It also seems to me that it might be much smarter to get the bullys out of the house, not to give women and children away, extra trauma to give to children. It might be fairer and fairer to take the bullys out of those houses and maybe put them in some kind of house and oversee them. Violence against children to monitor, but I think that the most violence against children has children over children, and I am sorry that it is very much covered and very hidden, and it is as if it is a shame in schools when it happens. We need to talk about this in public, talk about it. We have to punish those children and those parents who protect their child so much, who won't allow their child to do anything, then I'd let that child home nicely for a month so that the parent can teach him and then when he comes back in a month to question him again to see how much that parent is able to teach that child. I don't think that would happen again. So we have to, our psychiatrists, our psychologists, they've imposed so much on us, they've given us so much in raising children especially in schools that we've totally failed our exam on that. The other day, a young man in 7th grade had his foot in his stomach, and some media had made a lot of it, some media had tried to cover it up. The teacher said she couldn't talk about it. If that way, if you do, and I understand that parents want to cover up the case, but I don't understand why schools, why the police, why school principals want to cover up that case. So, a little more education over domestic violence. As for World War II, there are still living witnesses who want to testify and know where the pits are, who also know who the perpetrators are. You wouldn't need historians here, and neither should the State Archives, so all those who report, I'd like you to talk to them to give them their testimony. And the last thing that bothers me the most is that it's about one of the most serious crimes, as far as I'm concerned, personally, which is rape. We know that in this Homeland War if there were rapes and I wouldn't just call it a war crime, I'd call it hate crime. Unfortunately, much has not been discovered, much has actually not been bothered. You say there are 67 rapes, I'm interested in really, and yesterday I asked you which, I wonder how many of these women have been raped, who come from Vukovar because their testimonies are terrible especially everyone should, this book is available to you all read it. One woman says that in Vukovar, I returned in 2005, the perpetrators were tried, in the initial procedure a 14-year sentence was imposed for two perpetrators, in a repeated procedure in which there were no major changes in their testimony sentences were reduced to 7 years in prison, remained in some other processes, and some were not even tried. I'm on a private case for a material fee from the unsub. They've been forgiven for their court costs because of their poor assets. In Vukovar, I began to receive threats from friends of the convicted. This time my adult daughter and I are going to do it again. So I won't read all these reports as many as there are here, but each one of these victims says they questioned me once and never came back. No one's ever asked for anything again. So, I'd like you and your colleagues here to have, I say the book is available. This is a shame that in 2012 what happened to Croatians in Croatia, in their own homeland, that the Croatian judiciary does not care about them. They're our mothers, they're wives, they're grandmothers, they're not what they're all about. So we have to hold onto them that's our sanctity. We need to find out, because if we can't judge those who should be tried, then we can't expect others to come to us when they need their help and protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2611	Thank you very much. The word has a representative, Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2612	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Mr. Chief State Attorney, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here are just a few words about this report that I would at first praise as extremely exhaustive, with a lot of statistics that I believe will give my pain not only to the work of this House but also to scientific research on this topic. But I would mention something my colleagues and colleagues had missed before me mentioned. Although this report is very exhaustive in certain segments, I think certain segments are not extensive enough, namely what they're talking about. In criminal acts against freedom and the rights of man and citizen, the majority of this segment refers to threats, and the other percentage, a relatively small percentage of the other infringements in the article of the Law relating to this segment, i.e. infringements of sensitive social nature, including the human right to work. As an article of the SDP and I believe my colleagues and colleagues would be extremely interested in which numbers and percentages are applications for violations of human right to work, that is, how many applications are there for abuse of office by the employer for mobbing at work, for violation of the Labour Law, for violation of collective agreements and the like. It would also be interested in the expert opinion of the State Attorney's Office, which is why the number of these applications is extremely small, so if we take into account the total number of applications in this section of the report. The number of applications relating to human rights violations to work is relatively small. Is it because workers are uninformed in their rights, whether it's fear of losing their jobs, or whether it's something else? I believe the state's attorneys on the ground who are talking to the damages, so those who file charges will know best. Why it's just as important, namely, it can point to two things. One is that our working protection mechanisms are not good enough or that there is some deeper social problem or that we are not protecting enough workers who are damaged. I therefore think that it would be a good suggestion for us as the legislative body of the Republic of Croatia to then consider changes to any, legitimate changes that would allow employers to report infractions in their workplace without fear. I also believe that the work of the State's Attorney's Office is extremely important for the Republic of Croatia, although these data never go out of date in 2012 we are just discussing what the State's Attorney's Office did in 2010. That is why I would ask the President of the Parliament, that when the time allows, as soon as possible, we are discussing the 2011 report, when we will be able to see whether some legislative measures have produced results and when we will be able to see the state of play or guidelines that should be taken in the legislative changes in our future work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2613	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Dan Spicer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2614	Your Honor, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable State Attorney. Let me refer briefly to this report on the work of the state's attorney's office in 2010. First of all, what I would say is that what I think is, in some way, most of all going through the entire report, through just a report through the words of the state's attorney himself, is exactly the state of play both materially, financially and personally in the State's Attorney's Office in that year, which is the reference through this report. What's particularly interesting when we look at the whole segment of this is how the then state government that self-proclaimed itself to be the greatest anti-corruption fighter on the one hand, how it actually referred to that state's attorneyship. In what way did they deny, in fact, the most basic means to those who should most combat this corruption if we look at the state's attorneyship that should be the backbone in that fight. So, the main tool to fight the worst forms of crime, we primarily mean organised crime, corruption, etc. And let's look at the way the funds were denied and how this state's attorney's office in 2010 was forced and forced to work. What I am the attorney general says in the report is that budget funds are not enough except for paying de facto payment of steam power, which means they didn't have to pay for directors, communals, rents, and not even enough for wages, at least not in the form of the systematization of jobs. Furthermore, it is said that there are insufficient means to maintain information equipment, techniques, not enough for vehicles, not enough to pay for travel expenses, not even for office equipment. It even says, it goes to these details to say that the state's attorneys de facto had to get toners themselves, photocopier paper, and so on. If I were to caricate, I'd say the government's relationship to the state's attorney's office at the time was such that Malta was not expected to have state lawyers buy their own toilet paper. Which, of course, is not good, and I think it's for every conviction. Furthermore, it is said that there was not sufficient means to pay professional opinions, skills and so on, and I think that we all have to warn these things and say never happened again. On the part of the staff indemnity, there were a large number of problems, and the report said that job failure, 12 state lawyers were not appointed, even 63 deputy state lawyers were not, for places that were not filled, there were difficulties in employment, the system of selection of trainees, advisers and deputies, and what is particularly important to stress that the DORH had almost no impact on their choice. When we talk about the movement of crime in the Republic of Croatia, which, of course, is what this report is dealing with, I think we need to highlight a few basic trends in me. Under number one, it's an increase in juvenile crime. Some colleagues and colleagues talked about it, so let's say the same thing. The growth of juvenile crime is seen almost in all segments and all rates. From the abuse of intoxicating drugs, crimes against property, etc. What may be the media's most up-to-date this year in 2010 and back here is just juvenile violence. As far as statistics themselves are concerned in 2010, we can say that juvenile violence stagnates or that there is a slight decline but only in this statistical proportion. What all of us really need to worry about together is that there is growing and greater brutality within this minor violence. So, there is a social phenomenon that I would even say to a social phenomenon where certain events among that population take on a worrying level and that something that should be socially unacceptable among certain minors especially in school age becomes acceptable social behavior. Using modern technologies, the fights are recorded, encouraged to fight further, shown to each other etc. Well, more or less, we were all kids who used to beat each other, someone more someone less, and here and there, but that kind of brutality is rare when it was seen. What's particularly worrying is that some of the research that's been going on since 2006 is that more than 30% of the students have been exposed to peer violence. And the data that we don't find unfortunately in this DORH report but we find at the Ministry of Education is that in 2010 alone, 2,000 333 cases were minor violence in schools. And that's something I think we all need to deal with not only but primarily concerned, but it can't solve the DORH that can't even be solved by the police. In particular, education institutions and all other relevant segments of the company must primarily be involved in this story primarily in terms of prevention and prevention of such activities. What I would point out as one of the further negative trends is the question of finding out from unknown perpetrators, or I would call it non-disclosure of the perpetrator. So you have the information right here in this report that for crimes against property of 34 thousand 423 applications in 2010, only 10% were discovered so only about 3,000 600 perpetrators. What does that mean? It primarily refers to theft and heavy theft. This figure has an exceptional impact on the overall impact of security, therefore something we would call the perception of security among citizens. It doesn't matter if you catch one of the five or one of the 10 thieves, thieves, burglars, etc. And there is definitely a need to warn not only the State's Attorney's Office, but the State's Attorney's Office must make a great effort towards the police who are primarily responsible for detecting these perpetrators. What I would further emphasise as one of the major problems listed in this report is the issue of the rejection of criminal charges on the one hand and the number of convictions. There have been speeches about it today, but in any case, it should be warned that this report alone, and also the chief state attorney, warns of major differences and oscillations in the work and performance of certain state attorneys, and that is what is worrying. So looking at the tables at the end, looking at the numbers, we come up with an interesting thing. By comparing data, for example, from one side of the County Attorney's Office in Pula and the County Attorney's Office in Rijeka on the one hand, they have the largest number of rejected criminal charges that go more than 50%. On the other hand, the County Attorney's Office in Sibenik at least 25%. That's over 100% difference. If we connect these figures to any other information that tells us that at the same time the County Attorney's Office in Pula and Rijeka have the least judgments we can come up with certain findings we can pull a certain correlation and say that something in those environments is wrong. I'm not going to go into whether it's guilty or not good enough work of the state's attorney's office, judiciary, police, one, the other or the third, or whether it's a fault or a different methodology of work, working on different criteria, but it's definitely that we as a state that's not too big is inadmissible that there are so many discrepancies in the way of judgments on these crimes. So, by definitely respecting both the principle of opportunity and the principle of insignificant acts, I think that the State's Attorney General should primarily insist on harmonising the processing of these acts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2615	Thank you. It is Mr. Representative Don Ivan Grubisic's turn. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2616	Mr. President, Secretary of State, Attorney. I'd like to mention two things in this brief interview. First, in order for Croatia to be a level playing field and a fair state of attention in solving a number of cases that you have stated, you put on conditionally small people, that their problems be solved as soon as possible because there is no one to worry about, and I would like the state's attorney to be their chance and their address to which they can contact. Another thing that seems important to me in Croatia is that there is one category of officials of very important, influential and necessary but which are out of control and of the Croatian Parliament except here are the institutions of the President of the Republic and Prime Minister, which are secret services. Secret Service seems to me that the state is in the state, that they don't respond, that there's everything there is and that those who took care of these services know how difficult it is with these services at the end and how self-will and so on. In Bible times there were angels in the theocracy. The guardian angels were tasked with controlling people before God, and apparently every man has a guardian angel, and our people are very religious to the guardian angels because in a study in '85, so half the eighties ’ fourth address people addressed to their prayers was angels who ate. They were so important. In tyranny and totalitarian regimes there are also "angels guards" that are secret services. The Secret Service should, in my opinion, adopt precise regulations to keep this under Parliament's control, not just individual responsibility, and we know exactly how it ends. And the third thing I can't figure out is that in the secret services, it's been before, but there are now Clerhean people doing secret services, and they're also doing pastoral services. It's incompatible in my opinion, it's abuse of priests and clerics and no one reacts to it, and I know about at least two Claires cases in secret services. There should be a question of those who are the majority in this House, the Parliament, and the opposition to try to regulate these problems legally because we don't know who they are, what they are, what they do and where they have their fingers. They are in charge of the security of the state, for the security of citizens and property, but not in democracy for the control of citizens as they wish and for any reason. I'm putting that as one question that would be a good thing to discuss. There's so much for now.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2617	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Boris Blazekovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2618	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Attorney General. It has already been said, the 2010 State Attorney's Office's 2010 report has been discussed on the Committee on Human Rights and National Minorities. The report has been examined because of the real and direct impact of the work of the State's Attorney's Office on certain human rights although, in essence, the entire report is either directly or indirectly related to human rights. According to the report, the 2010 report contains a review of the work of state attorneys, statistics on individual thematic units, data on success in procedures, on the material and human rights of the State's attorney's office so that the Croatian Parliament can give an assessment of the state and movement of crime, on its risk to society as a whole, as well as on the quality of the protection of the property of the Republic of Croatia. The report has been drawn up very professionally, clearly, transparently, with clear tables and comparative data. However, I would now single out the reports and only mention in the context of the sensitivity of Chapters 3.1.37 and 3.1.4. which provide statistics on the processing of domestic violence and on the criminal protection of children and minors, i.e. criminal acts against sexual freedom, sexual disorder against the harm of children and minors and crimes against marriage, family and youth where fundamental human rights are directly affected. However, I would like to point out the part-time work of the DORH which is not covered by this report, which concerns human rights violations. First, I would like to thank the chief state attorney who has made an effort past the written report on the Committee on Human Rights and National Minorities to prepare additional information directly concerning the work of the human rights attorney. It's about hate crimes, gender discrimination and racial disputes. All the statistics are in the report and we can all see them and the public can see them. However, I would particularly like to highlight the part that is not written in the report, which concerns human rights and is also contained in the European Convention on Human Rights. To be clear right now, I'm here talking about conducting investigative proceedings through the media that we're all day-to-day witnesses to. I'm gonna go ahead and quote. In Chapter 6, the right to a fair trial of Article 6.2 of the European Convention on Human Rights, the Convention guarantees the right to be considered innocent until proven guilty. This right is based on the principle that, in the event of a suspicion, one should be judged in favour of the individual accused of a criminal offence. The European Court of Human Rights has treated and treated three aspects of this right. One of these three visions is, I quote: that state authority or the media must not publicly declare the individual's guilt before a judgment is passed. In Croatia, viewing the media gets the impression that certain media are simply printed media, simply newsletters for detailed data on investigations and charges. The public is constantly exposed to the presentation of countless data that insinuate people’s guilt for various crimes that they may not be at all guilty of. It's rare that the defendants and the details of the file, including evidence in the defendants' proceedings, are seen in the papers. Such a situation directly engulfs fundamental human rights in the presummation of innocence, as regards objectivity, justice and justice. With all due respect to the media that are under severe commercial conditions, hungry sensations and cries for positive circulation, it is unforgivable that people are creeding and accusing themselves and indicating their guilt without any real evidence, ruthlessly destroying human lives, careers, married spouses and friends abandoning people in the newspaper accused, losing jobs, failing businesses, children being ashamed of their parents, and children themselves are exposed to the humiliation of their peers. When asked about data leaks, the attorney general explains that they, the State's Attorney's office, thus only loses and that he would drink on the branch he is sitting on and that the leak of the data from the investigation threatens human rights, as well as the entire course of criminal proceedings. It seems to me that it is time for everyone together, and everyone in our field of action, to find ways not to put anything at risk and do nothing at all, but nobody's human rights in the conduct of the criminal proceedings, and also that there is no threat to the right to inform the public. It's a challenge for all of us, for the State's Attorney's Office, for the Parliament, for the Government, for the Bar Association. The challenge is also huge for the media, but it is worth trying and it is a simple obligation for all of us if we want to live in a healthy society. The HNS fully understands the necessity, role and importance of the media in society, especially the tasks of information and education, but also the specific task of the media, which is conditional on the correction of possible negativeities in society. HNS particularly supports and insists on the independence and freedom of the media, but we also believe that responsibility is on the media i.e. journalists and editors are huge, and that's precisely because of the freedoms they must have. The media must fully understand the responsibility not only in general but for every news, for every information. In the context of this debate, media must find a way to be informatively socially useful, but in no way do they have the right to violate citizens' rights to an independent and fair trial and do not have the right to condemn people in the manner of their reporting before a judicial verdict. And finally, to conclude and repeat, it is time for everyone together and for each of us in our field of action to find ways not to compromise any criminal proceedings with anything, and for nothing to be threatened by anyone's human rights in the conduct of criminal proceedings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2619	Thank you very much, dear colleague Blazekovic. The next debate came with a distinguished representative, Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2620	Thank you, Vice President, the esteemed and respected Attorney General, colleagues and colleagues. So this report of the State's Attorney's Office, as everyone before me said, was made extremely detailed, extensive and commendable. But my reason for reporting is one segment that I'd say hasn't been processed enough or maybe worse or not paying attention enough, and that's a good sea. In fact, we all say that this is our most valuable resource of the state, and in all these previous exhibitions, and in the presentation of Mr. Attorney General, we have heard only one sentence. The 2010 report, which can be found identically in previous reports in 2009, 2008, and thus will certainly be in 2011, says that the entry of the maritime good is a slow and inefficient process. When we know that as early as 1994, a Maritime Code was passed, which gives the DORH the utmost importance to protect the state's interests, then I think the State's attorney may have to deal with it to make it much faster and more effective. Furthermore, it says that one of the greater reasons for this slow process is the lack of funds for the development of geodetic embodies. Well, I would not agree with this, given that I am the head of a local self-government unit in this area and I know that the construction of geodetic elaborates stands at only several thousand kunas and I do not know a colleague or colleague who would not single out so much when he already knows that in the same budget year or next tourist season he can make several tens of thousands of kuna on behalf of concession or concession approval. The surface of the Republic of Croatia somewhere above one-third can cover marine well-being. The coastal line that includes seawater and the territorial sea is 5,830 km and certainly deserves that the general good that is of interest to the Republic of Croatia has its special protection, but not only in the definition but in real life. Unfortunately, life and practice deny it. Furthermore, this report also states that one of the priority but also the largest and most complex businesses is the establishment of a real estate of the Republic of Croatia because it is only possible to protect the extremely valuable assets of the coast, the sea, islands and make the availability of real estate transparent. For this very reason, I would ask that a little more attention be paid in 2012 to this segment to make us all feel better. In fact, this area is really burdened with inherited and unresolved property-legal relations that are burdened with both privatisation and conversion. And that led to a dramatic state of disorder. However, when it comes to being up-to-date, we have heard that, and it is commendable to report that they are being resolved within 3 months. A colleague made an observation about the resolution of the 20-month case, however, there have been cases that have been on your hands since 2005. We get opinions, and opinions are certainly fine, when a warrant or instructions are given to another institution I don't know the Ministry, the unit of local self-government how to handle this case. However, if this is in your jurisdiction, no matter what the excuses are and the report also shows the adoption of a new law, I am sure that the new law cannot be applied to the 2003 contracts or as I said in the 2005 case. It should not be forgotten that the work and events in this area are exposed to a strict and harsh court of the public. And it's about very attractive places that are devastated or abandoned or have investments that show that they're improvised, nothing overnight without permission. This is right on behalf of all of us who live by the sea, who live off the sea, who live on tourism and for tourism, which I am happy to say, I would ask that in 2012, a little more attention be paid to the maritime well-being and all that is happening on that maritime good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2621	Thank you, colleague. We've got three other colleagues reported for questioning. The first one will be spoken by distinguished representative Zeljko Sabo.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2622	Vice President, this is really this storm current technique, something's wrong, it's supposed to be advertised, or I'm charged with electricity. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, State Attorney I will shorten my entire debate because we had a brief conversation before the follow-up. You promised to come to Vukovar and we'll try to talk about them in Vukovar in some way. But what is important, which I cannot miss today in the debate, I will ask you to certainly help continue to resolve the Vukovar defenders who spent with me in captivity in Serbian concentration camps, who are still prisoners in the Croatian state, who are afraid to leave and cross the border outside Croatia so as not to experience fate like some. And therefore, in advance, I would like to express my gratitude if you are quick to address this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2623	Thank you, fellow Sabi. The next is Honorable Representative Branko Vuksic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2624	Your Honor, Vice President, the Honorable Attorney General. In the debates I have heard so far, I thought we were already in the EU, and I am a member of Parliament of some of the Scandinavian countries. A little bit of that looks virtual to me. The panegirians who are here in this report are in contrast with the situation that is in Croatia today. And this situation, the cause of this situation, is quite certain and the inaction of many state bodies, independent bodies, judicial bodies, and it is absolutely certain that there is no institution in Croatia that would deserve at this time as much panegiric as it is said today in this Report, or indirectly and the State's Attorney's Office. In particular, many colleagues today held a position on the media. Many of them talked about what the media is like, that the media is judging, that the media is making quick decisions, that the media is haunting people. I've worked in the media for a long time, and I know what the media is, quite certain that I don't intend to defend the media here, but if it wasn't for the media, many of the things that the State's attorney is investigating today might not have been explored, the media were the first ones to point out to the thief at the top of the state, the media were the ones who insisted on investigating, the media were the ones who were looking for some kind of moral vertical in state institutions, so I wouldn't agree, and I wouldn't throw trees and stones at the media. There is certainly one type of cooperation between the state's attorney and the media. First of all, media has been pointing to problems that haven't been solved for years, and now suddenly there's a big cry for the media because the media is publishing what the State's Attorney's Office is investigating. How do the media get to that? It's not a problem in the media, it's a problem in the State's Attorney's Office or an institution, or in people who come up with documents that are top secret and are not to be published. So the media and the state's attorney's office love each other secretly, sometimes publicly, I think they're helping each other, which is why all those who throw wood and stones at the media do the same thing to the State's Attorney's office. Says one colleague, I think Mrs. Ingrid Anticevic said the police will serve the state's attorney's office, whether that means that they will present a report on the state of the state of security together with the police. I think it's certainly not the role of the police to be a service to the State's Attorney's office the police are much more than that. The new Code of Criminal Procedure is waiting for you all to know well on the assessment of constitutionality. There are some 100 articles in question, quite certain that it would be much easier for the State's Attorney's office to do so if the Constitutional Court responded in time and would bring its own word and on the new Code of Criminal Procedure, which one deeply praises and the other very much. It seems to me that in Croatia, I do not think, I am sure that there are first and second-class citizens in Croatia, there are those citizens who are allowed to run the process, those citizens who are allowed to apply, those citizens who are allowed to be sent to the defendant's bench. One robbery happened in Đakovština, we all know there was a robbery there, there was never a serious debate about it, and even, you might have noticed she wasn't even in the media, you see how well she cooperated. That is why I propose that this House adopt a Law on the Protection of Some People of the Republic of Croatia, as at the time of communism was a law on the protection of President Tito, so let's say the law on the protection of Mr. Ivica Todorovic, so the law on the protection of Ninoslav Pavić does not know who, but it would be good, because then we still have a foothold in the law. It was also said before about the settlements, that the settlements were made with witnesses, that the settlements were done with some people who were accused of crime, and I think that a deal was made here because a few months ago I heard far, not far away, today I didn't hear a single critical word, criticism at the expense of the state's attorney and attorney, however, today not one serious grudge. And in the end, I would only warn of one thing once again if it hadn't happened if it hadn't been known, that's exactly what's going on in Vesnik and these days, I mean the whole building, the whole complex, and these days there's speculation in the paper, the DORH has received document one, I'm quite sure because the journalists handed over to the DORH a document that's all registered on property, on that property that some estimate on many millions of euros. Euthanasia The Vesnika lasted 21 years, during which time the state shoeed him, stole him, hypocritically held him on the apparatus to incriminate its listeners. Now the Vesnik may have been judged by conflicts and interests that have nothing to do with him, probably by the power of large capital. However, he was determined by the logic of the bulldozer. Russian literary theorist Nikolaj Chernisevski once said that sausage is more important than Shakespeare, the smart Krlezah responded to it, which is a simple irrefutable truth but is also barbaric nonsense. Is abolishing the Vesniks a barbaric nonsense? NIJE, but a large-capital dog who threw his claws at the land worth many millions of euros. This was a letter from these last 20 journalists, Vesnik. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2625	This exhibition of yours encourages the replica of counterpart Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2626	Well, basically, I think you'll agree with your colleague, as I will agree when you say that police are much more than the state's attorney's service, that's true, there are a whole series of jobs that he does on his own, he can and without a warrant act independently in detecting the perpetrators of criminal acts by providing clues. In this sense, when I was talking about the service, then I was talking about investigations that are being initiated by the new CAP and led by the State's Attorney's Office. And when it leads, it initiates the investigation on its own initiative and when it gives orders to the police, then the police must be nothing more than a service. And I repeat, this is particularly emphasized by Interior Minister Ranko Ostojić, whom he will not therefore fall the crown from his head, the man who runs such a portfolio, who said so, so it promises one firmer and better co-operation because in the past that I do not now list which were all periods, when there was no such cooperation then it was to the joy of the perpetrator of the crimes, I hope that we have put an end to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2627	We will also hear the reply to the replica of counterpart Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2628	Here's what I think we agree on, which is that the police are a lot more than the state's attorney's services, and it's certainly good that the police are working closer with the State's Attorney's office and it's also a service to the State's Attorney's office. And just one more thing I forgot to say earlier, I'd like to ask the state's attorney if he can when he's talking to us in his last address to tell us how much investigation has been launched for leaking information in the State's Attorney's office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2629	The last but not least important application for a ten-minute debate is the esteemed colleague Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2630	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Attorney General. So here is the 2010 report, which speaks extensively about the work of the state's attorneys in the Republic of Croatia from the central state's attorney to the county municipal attorney's offices. It shows in a tabular sense everything that has been done and how many objects have been processed. I can say that I share the satisfaction of all colleagues who have expressed that the State's Attorney's Office in terms of the prevention and detection and persecution of crime has done its job well, that it has made great progress even though it was in that year 2009, according to some reports and some MPs, it has been fiercely criticised. We were still supporting and clearly determined that the fight against corruption and organised crime had no alternative. Today, we can see that there is much more to be done so that the new law as well as the assumptions in the financial and humane teaming continue to be which will be done by the State's Attorney's office and by the county and municipal team that will implement the new legal provisions in the work of lawyers as a whole. Looking to avoid wasting too much time this report I came up with that oversight of the attorneys and the instructions and control of the work of subordinates or lower lawyers who can and can't control themselves in any way, I didn't find what was called that existed in the conclusion that there were some deviations, although there were probably even they couldn't be found to mention themselves, maybe I missed something. It would be good if not all of them weren't angels and your fellow state attorneys were also missing the neglect and keeping the case in drawers. Or perhaps sometimes that the same approach is not used in the application of all legal possibilities and repressive apparatus in the pursuit of those who are fundamentally suspected of committing a crime of any kind. I hope that further ongoing monitoring of work and supervision will also be followed by reports and effective application of all that is permitted and what is legally possible, and sometimes a written order on concrete work in certain cases should be sent. I'm going to get what's interesting to me, and that's a war crime. There's a lot about war crimes here. I will return to the war crimes committed in the area of Virovitica-Podravska County and for which no one is yet like the writer of this book Miroslav Boss says a crime for which no one has ever answered. It is. They were responding without a presence. They were punished without presence. They were tried for 10 years by four of the perpetrators of 500 recorded who were to be prosecuted, who were in the 12th Slavonic so-called. The army brigades of the provinces that have committed in the sub-papuci villages of Chetnik, Čiluk, Balinci, Voćina massacre over the innocent population, civilians who only because they were Croats lost their lives in the most severe torments of massacres and atrocities. Four people who have committed rape and are also not available to the Croatian judiciary have been punished. Penalties don't hold. I would like to ask Mr. State Attorney if it is possible to use international legal aid in this respect where over a hundred Croatian civilians from the Slatini region of Voćin, Chetnik, Choluk and Balinac have lost their lives and to this day the victims do not have their satisfaction. I would also refer to what is called the book that we all have received from the "Sunica" in which 15 testimonies also showed the horrors that women have experienced in Serb concentration camps. Well not only are women and men raped in that rage, hatred in all the evil that has hit the Croatian state. I believe you've read this sun and you've been impressed by these 15 testimonies. I hope that the Croatian State Attorney's Office with additional powers with the help of the Croatian police will activate the Interpol warrants for the whole of Europe that Croatia belongs to will reach these perpetrators of these terrible atrocities and bring the person of justice to experience the victims of their satisfaction. And I don't owe it. I said that in corruption, crime on everything you've been doing all this time just commendation. For this part of the crime against the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, I believe that not enough has been done, so I will give you this book so that it will be a path and a guide to the discovery of all those who have not yet experienced it. Of those 500, there are certainly at least a hundred that are strictly perpetrators of war crimes and genocide, and that is how they should be treated. It is necessary to bend and use all legal opportunities in my view to be brought to justice and to have citizens or relatives of victims experience a fair satisfaction. So that not every time on the anniversary when we come we as representatives of the Croatian Parliament would be called if we hadn't done anything about it so that they would experience criminals being brought to justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2631	I thank my colleague Djakic. Five minutes on behalf of the HSU Club will speak Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2632	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Bajic, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian Retired Party Club gives full support to the State's Attorney-General's report. The only thing we would not like for this report is to wait so long for 2011 and I believe that a 2011 report will appear within the appropriate deadline at the debate in the Croatian Parliament. This is really too much time, but it does not depend on the state's attorney, it depends on the regime of work in the Croatian Parliament. In the last two and a half years, Croatia has faced many and until then unmarked investigations of corruption scandals reaching the very political summit of the then government. The Croatian pensioner's party considers it crucial to maintain continuity in order to bring the processes to an end successfully and the culprits to justice. The Croatian party of pensioners was not always satisfied with the speed of the investigation, nor with the fact that the public was overly involved in the investigation process. However, it is obvious that, for the successful work of the DORH and USKOK, it was necessary to amend some laws that further slowed the work of these bodies, so a reform of the legal framework had to be made in order to make the DORH and USKOK more effective. As the State Attorney's Office is a criminal prosecution body, better co-operation with all institutions is necessary, but when we talk about institutions here, we think about the Police, so we primarily think about the Police in order to obtain relevant evidence for a successful procedure. Unfortunately, we believe that during the period covered by this report, co-operation between the police and the DORH was often insufficient, and very easily could be discussed about the obstructions of individual cases. Therefore, we think that the key to further successful operation of the DORH lies partly in better cooperation with the Police and we believe that it will soon prove so. There have been a lot of complaints in this House over the past few years about the work of the DORH. We believe that some of them were also founded, but we believe that this is an area of exceptional interest in democratisation of society and the introduction of order and law, and that this interest far exceeds all other particular requirements. We must bear in mind that this is not only about ordinary legal procedures but also about the fact that the work of the State's Attorney's Office has managed to send messages to the local and European public that, although late, there are no untouchable messages in Croatia. We want to believe that all these standards are imposed forever and that there will no longer be time for investigations and indictments against senior state officials to wait for years. And to conclude, despite any objections, we believe that DORH worked to promote good principles and general good and therefore the Croatian Party of Retired Party club gives unequivocally support to this report, as well as to the work of the State Attorney. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2633	Thank you, colleague Hrelja. At the end of this whole day debate, we will also hear the word of the applicant for the 2010 report on the work of the state's attorney, Mr. Mladen Bajic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2634	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. After today's debate, it is clear to me that you are careful and with great attention and, of course, critical that you are expected to consider the 2010 Annual Report of the State's Attorney's Office. All remarks, I have carefully recorded them or remembered them, we will consider and I am sorry that they will not be able to be incorporated immediately, at least not all, in the 2011 report because there is not enough time to correct some of your criticisms in the last year or rather to focus our work on areas of particular interest. First of all, I think we write about it in our annual report. In fact, you have seen and know from the legal definition, the constitutional definition of the State's Attorney's Office that the State's Attorney's Office actually enters all segments of society, whether in criminal or civil-government areas, and that, in fact, it touches the work of many institutions in the Republic of Croatia and that therefore, the intertwination of our work with the work of all these institutions makes one unique, almost unique whole. Of course, as I was saying at the outset, for that part of the work, which is, in fact, the biggest, we take responsibility for everything we're responsible for. At the same time, I hope that the Croatian Parliament will also consider those remarks, and even those that have been said in a certain way shyly, so one of the MPs said, will respect the amendment of certain legal frameworks that will allow for more effective protection of state property, but of course, more efficient and more efficient and quality work and detection of criminal offences, persecution and trial. I'm going to try to look back at several important items that are said here, I'm going to try to explain them, although I respect most of the objections and we're going to definitely consider them at all levels regardless of what state's attorney's office in the state's attorney's system is referring to them. I'd like to say something about overseeing the state's attorney's work. I absolutely accept that there must be control and control over every institution except the Croatian Assembly and the State's Attorney's Office. The only control and supervision of the work of the State Attorney's Office may be given by the Croatian Assembly or by the body he appoints. I couldn't agree more. However, in order not to be deluded, not by you but by the Croatian public who closely monitors today's debate on the work of the State's Attorney's Office, I must say that, in addition to the work reports which, once a year, according to the legal definition set out in Article 40. The Law on State Attorney's Office must be submitted to the Croatian Assembly, and the report must contain a report on the state and movement of crime and on the actions taken to protect state property. The State Attorney's Office is also in case that the Croatian Parliament or one of its committees, depending on which area it covers, invites and asks the State's Attorney's Office for a segment, individual reports on the individual segments of our work, that we are obliged to deliver them to the Croatian Assembly, and also argued to try to defend what it says there. In many cases, this happens during the year so that individual committees ask us for detailed reports and state attorney's office to deliver these reports to the Croatian Assembly. On the other hand, the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Croatia has control over the work of the State Attorney's Administration, which is finance, funds and spending, etc., etc. State's attorney's office. On the other hand, the Law on State Attorney's Office adopted by the Croatian Parliament was set up under the State's Attorney's Office special department for the supervision of the work of the State's attorneys and every two years in the regular procedure of each State's attorney's office in the Republic of Croatia has been thoroughly examined in relation to their actions in concrete cases. But that's not all. The supervision of parties and damages is the most important monitoring that happens in certain cases. I'm not talking about those cases that go to court. There, the court controls the legality and quality of our work with its judgments. I told you today what the percentage of those convictions is, 87%. However, all the damages have the right to take over persecution, have the right to exercise control and control of what is done in a particular case. However, with the latest amendments to the Law on State Attorney's Office, we have introduced another Institute of Control, which is that applicants also have the possibility of having a negative decision by the State's Attorney's office to request the control of the work in this particular case and to ask the College of the State's Attorney to review the file, to have the other deputy be the rapporteur in the case and then by a secret vote to decide whether the decision was good or not. And finally after that, there is the possibility of a complaint or complaint being submitted to the Department of Internal Affairs of the State's Attorney's Office, which must again be made by a decision behind which it will stand. So we tried to develop a whole series of control mechanisms within the system so it wouldn't happen that illegal decisions don't come out of the state's attorney's office. Of course, this does not mean that such decisions and actions are not made. One of you, I think Mr. Djakic just said that, of course, there are problems in our system, and that's why there's a State Attorney's Council, and there are strict procedures, and that's why there's something going on with us, which is so-called. "determination by resignation." In a few situations in the last few years, we have had resignations after we have embarked on a tight procedure because it was quite certain that these tenacity procedures would end probably in harsh measures as prescribed by the law because the illegalities that surely require it, not because we know what kind of decision it will make, of course. Then something about handling crimes involving labour law, what Mr. Lesar spoke about this morning. I have to admit, and I told the parent committee yesterday that in the next report we must certainly explain and record this chapter in particular. The fact is that, in the present Criminal Code, the crime referred to in Article 114 was a little imprecise, at least such case-law was inaccurately regulated. However, a new law has been passed, a new Penal Code that will enter into force on 01.01 next year, and in that law it is significantly different. Of course, that doesn't justify what Mr. Lesar was talking about, but I also have to say that a relatively small number of criminal charges filed by the state's attorneys, but I think, above all, for reasons why workers are afraid to have sanctions much bigger than their employers would if they didn't file those applications. Of course, this does not justify inspections and other bodies, especially labour inspections and others, to file appropriate criminal charges, but I say in that part we will do one analysis which will be an integral part of the 2011 annual report, and in this direction we will be much better and smarter. Today, it was also said that the average state’s attorneys had no delays and that the cases were resolved within a relatively short period of 3 months. In fact, at the end of the year there are about 10,000 people reported, which is about a three - month inflow. There have been criticisms about it, I never talk about specific subjects because we can't talk about it, at least not at the plenary session here, there's been criticism that we've worked on some cases much longer and that it's unacceptable to conduct an investigation for 20 months and that people are kept in suspense. First of all, let me tell you right now, even though I'm not talking about a specific case, it's not about an investigation, it's about conducting reconnaissance and research and criminal reporting, which is a different matter. In the criminal proceedings, we have different phases of criminal proceedings that go from the existence of suspicions and reasonable suspicions, and the convictions of a first degree and finally to a second-degree verdict which is only important for the creation of the conclusion that someone is guilty. All these phases in the process are legal in accordance with the law, and so each of us probably had several criminal charges against ourselves. So for example, I've been reported several times for murder, so on and so forth, I'm not going to talk about abuse, of course, but the murders are more important and more picturesque. War crimes, Mrs. Tomasic knows it, etc., and others. So, despite being reported, I think you can continue to do your job for which you've been paid. However, the principle of legality is the most important principle for the decision-making of the state's attorney's office. The state's attorney's office can't make a decision because it has to make it either within 15 days, a month, six months and two years. We cannot give solutions by which we will find someone guilty or free of any responsibility. Where we can determine the responsibility we will go in the process, and where we cannot determine that someone is not guilty, we must try to carry out all possible reconnaissances to determine what it is. It's in the interest of the one who's registered. Because a application that isn't handled properly with all the arguments, with all the checks, doesn't serve anyone the solution to the rejection they're about to receive, but it doesn't mean anything to him. But it doesn't matter. ... Yeah, it's just that it's a very complicated situation. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And what if a man suspects that someone committed a crime and was wronged? Who's going to prove that someone knew he didn't commit it, etc., but we're not going to talk about it right now. War crimes, I would like to respond to the Assembly's report's data regarding all war crimes committed during the Homeland War. According to our records and data for processed crimes, so those numbers in our report refer to it. We're not talking about all the victims of war, we're talking about the victims of war crimes, it's important. The ladies who wrote this book I received a month, two days ago, I got a book from them, I involved in a police investigation, I asked the police to investigate fully what it says in the book, but not just in the book, but in what they gave the testimony to us, etc. So that's the case, and there's no reason for these items not to be completed if the perpetrators are discovered. Finally, much has been said today, but I must point out that there is no state attorney's office or that there has been untouchable only the question of legal frameworks or tools that we have, on the other hand, facts and evidence of any action including in civil matters. But in the end, I would conclude that I am not taking away your precious time. The state's attorney's office in its report but also in its work there are several other important things that determine changes in our approach to work. First, we focus primarily on preventing and processing corruption and organised crime. Of course, connecting with the police, I primarily think of criminal police as part of or service of a single detection and persecution system, so to prevent corruption and organised crime. Second, protection of property and property interests of the Republic of Croatia. In our Report, we often talk in that civic section about the need to change some legal frameworks to protect property, but also to speed up the conditions and processes for the protection of entrepreneurship, because today we agree. The state's attorney's office, civil departments do not want to be the brakes of entrepreneurship and the development of the Republic of Croatia, but in this direction some laws need to be changed because the state's attorney's office does not have the authority to beat things over its knees but only as the employer has determined. It is, of course, our task to suggest to the Croatian Assembly or the resolution ministries certain amendments to the legislation so that everything is faster and more cost-effective. Shortening the avoidance of criminal proceedings, and we are eager to expect the Constitutional Court to decide on a constitutional action to assess the constitutionality of the new CAP if nothing else is to agree with the new novels on what final text of the Criminal Procedure Act will apply in the next period. The confiscation of property benefit and the collection of the costs of criminal proceedings is also one of the elements that we closely monitor and ask for the criminal proceedings to be taken away from the perpetrators the property benefit which is... the execution of the criminal offence and the collection of the costs of the criminal proceedings except as opposed to those because these costs must be released for these or those reasons provided for by law. But that those who have caused the conduct of the expensive criminal procedure since the beginning, from criminal processing to the final sentence of law, are paying for the procedure, not to pay less than a taxi ride inside Zagreb, and now according to a new one. There's something else about leaking information. A lot of today was about leaking information, I was talking about it on the Committee yesterday, I was talking about because leaking information really hurts the protection of human rights especially those involved, and I agree with that, however, damages also criminal proceedings. I have to say that I repeat again that the criminal procedure, especially in the colorokial sense of the word, is one broader term, consisting of two or three stages even. First of all, the investigation process and the reconnaissance process, and only after that are the warrants for the conduct of an investigation or an investigation warrant, however you will, until the investigation is completed, when a decision is taken or suspended, or if the indictment is brought to an end. In the first phase of the process, this is a previous survey and a reconnaissance I am responsible for telling you that no information has ever been released from the State's Attorney's Office, although it is valuable information which is also particularly important for the media, the printed media, the electronic media or any other media, because it is things that some in the public would like to present in one way or another, for a wonderful miracle it never comes out. You have to ask yourself why it doesn't come out, so it doesn't come out because no one has it, but just us and the police. However, the warrant to conduct an investigation under the new criminal procedure law allows all documents, from records to earlier material of the secret services, listening, etc., to all those in the criminal record, all participants in the proceedings shall have at least one copy, including examinations, etc. Now I ask you technically how to solve the problem when you have 50 copies of the file at all possible addresses in the Republic of Croatia and beyond, it is a fact, but it must be so. Now, let's get back to some other problems about it. I must remind you that, in the new Criminal Procedure Act, it was an article 231 which I quote exactly this way: "All persons who learn the content of the proceedings during the investigation are obliged as a secret to keep facts and data that they have learned, all persons.". However, that provision, the provision of that article was amended in less than a few months, under media pressure. And he says, "The body that's taking the store will warn the persons involved in the evidence store that it's a secret crime." What have we lost? We've lost responsibility for criminal and evidence, and we've created a problem of proof, who's guilty of what, but that's not the reason either. There are often times in the media texts concerning individual cases that are in the investigation. Very important and very valuable. However, a good part of this information that is indicated there in texts either on purpose or by chance does not correspond to the real state of things. Whether the State's Attorney's Office or the USCOK deny it and says, in the first paragraph, the second is not true, so confirm something, we're in a weird situation again. And often we're in this kind of trouble because once that information leaks out to us, all the witnesses we need to come back, they're reporting, they won't come back, they won't talk anymore, they won't talk anymore. Or at least they don't say everything they're going to say in the first phase of the procedure. The methodology has already shown that witnesses in the case are being closed afterwards. According to the former Criminal Procedure Act before this investigation was not public, the legal definition reads. We had the same thing but it wasn't secret but it wasn't public, the same thing happened but it wasn't a problem. And because Professor Kregar said in his part of the exhibition, the question is that it should be considered objectively, but not only the State's Attorney's Office but also other bodies in which to go and how to set things up. We've shut down I'm sure once again, because I've invited everyone within my house to close all possible exits, sources of information. We also marked the documents in different hidden ways etc. It exists today, we've done it all. However, your documents are generally never published in fax, in principle, but on that basis. Anyway, I'm grateful to talk about this leak because it's really a public alert, it creates the wrong picture. But another thing about the State's Attorney's office is that it raises a ladder that is difficult to reach in certain things because the media is already ruling in a month and then it's after two months of what you're doing. So, it absolutely doesn't suit us, I just wanted to say it. Anyway, thanks again for the support, thanks for the constructive criticism, that's how it used to be said in the mustache of time, that's what I heard someone say today or something like that. I'm sure and I know that most of the things you pointed out will be well-intentioned and that we will achieve better results in that direction. Of course, in our report, we try to point out once again, trying to point out the negatives and the home itself, and I’m not just talking about others where we can make a much better move, etc. It's a long way from perfection. God forbid, nobody wants to say it. If anyone is critical of our work, then we are at the very top of the DORH because in this direction we are trying to point to the importance of the institution in which they work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2635	I thank Chief State Attorney Mladen Bajic. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. As the President of the Parliament said tomorrow morning, the necessary committee meetings will be held, and we will continue the plenary session at 12 o'clock, with a discussion of the agenda points of 2 to 6, of the consolidated agenda. These are: Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Value Added Tax, Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Profit Tax, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Contributions, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Health Insurance. So the debate will be united. I'm interrupting the session here now. Thank you very much. I'll see you tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-02-15-0.u2636	We could now move on to voting or decision-making on the laws or materials that we have considered in the preceding period. First we go to declare the report on the work of the State's Attorney's Office in 2010. Thank you very much. I am voting in accordance with the proposal of the working bodies the following conclusion: A report on the work of the national lawyers is adopted in 2010. Please engage and vote on the proposed conclusion. Thank you very much. I find that most of the vote is 105 in favour, 6 against and 2 abstentions to the proposal for a conclusion. We now have in line with the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community conclusion: The Croatian Parliament obliges the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia to investigate, find and process the perpetrators of the criminal offences of the unauthorized and illegal carrying out all the information from secret investigations conducted by the Office for the control of corruption and organised crime, and to take a quick report from the Croatian Parliament. The proposal for this conclusion was made clear by the Board of Justice of the Croatian Parliament, so I will read the proposal of the Committee on Justice and read: A conclusion proposing that the Croatian Parliament must investigate, investigate, prosecute the perpetrators of the criminal offences of unauthorized and unlawful data from secret investigations conducted by the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, and that the report of the Croatian Parliament is not based on the Constitution, the Law and calls into question the guaranteed independence of the activities of the Croatian State's attorney, and I therefore propose that we do not vote on the proposed conclusion. We will put to the vote the proposal for a conclusion of the Croatian Democratic Community. Let's get involved and vote on the proposal for a conclusion of the HDZ Representatives Club. Have you pleaded? We got a score, 38 votes for, no abstentions and 80 MPs against. I find that the conclusion is not accepted. Thank you very much.
