ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18136	Have a good day. Today we begin with - Final bill on amendments and additions to the Employment Encouragement Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 175 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership and the Committee on Agriculture. You received the reports at the session. I ask you, does the motionor want to further explain the proposal? He does. Minister of Labour and Pension System Dr Miranda Mrsic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18137	... Vice President. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] Honorable MPs and MPs. You have before you a proposal to amend the employment law. What we said when we passed the law that we would monitor the law intensively and that if there was a problem in application, because it was a living organism, that we would also change the provisions of the laws that we see can have negative consequences for the availability of measures or negative consequences because there are potentially some things that are not well explained. However, before I go to law, I would like to say something about the active employment policy measures that are an important part, so a complementary part of this law. Active employment policy measures are adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and have been set up by the National Employment Encouraging Plan for 2011 and 2012. Given that we are entering the European Union 1.7.2013 and will then enter into force the National Reform Programme where one of the most important parts is employment reforms. We will propose that current active employment policy measures be extended by 6 months to 1.7 next year, with some changes that will facilitate the availability of these measures. Therefore, active employment policy measures are measures aimed at public works, vocational training for work without the creation of employment, education of the unemployed, support for the completion of employment and self-employment and job conservation. Public works are intended for long-term unemployed, or hard-working groups. It's about socially useful works initiated by the local community. These are mostly municipal and social programmes such as cleaning and environmental arrangements, care for old and powerless persons and disabled persons, then care for children and help young people with difficulties, etc. The first 9 months of this year included 13491 people, 64% more than in the same period last year, we announced. We announced that we would maximise the number of unemployed people involved in public works, and there we had a good response from local self-government. Professional training for work without a working relationship is intended for a person with no working experience in calling for whom they have been educated. One of the main amendments to this law is aimed at that measure. In the first 9 months of active users, 7393 people, of which 3340 were newly included, were 63.8% more than last year. What we also note is that the measure we have taken and that we have extended to the public sector has also enabled the public sector, so in the private sector, to enable young people to be employed and to educate themselves in the profession for which they have graduated from school or college. Clearly, since the measure was initially not intended for the private sector to take time to revive it, however, according to the data we have since 1900 newly received requests in the last 2 months somewhere around 780 is from that private sector, so around 40%, which is a good sign that when they rise up in that part of our society, it will also be equated with this public and state portfolio. This is particularly important for the reasons why employment is prohibited in the state and public system and it is logical that if someone is trained for a year for an interest that can in principle not be employed in the public or state sector, however, if they are trained in private where employment is possible then it is possible to stay in the system. However, we wanted to see what happened to those who were in 2011 to this extent, so at a time when it couldn't go to the private sector, so we got the information that 40% of the young people who were to this extent did not return to the unemployment records after the completion of this measure. This information, however, is not enough to determine the real impact of the measure because it is necessary to see what happened to these young people. So we decided that HZZ all those involved in this follow up for the next two or three years to really see what is going on with them on the labour market and then we will also have the result of the real achievement of this measure. As for education for the unemployed in the first nine months, 1875 people were included which is 65% less in the same period than last year, which is also the intensity we announced at the beginning of the year. So we said we're not going to educate people for the Employment Service again, but we're going to educate them just for those occupations that are employed. In addition, our decision on the data we received, so the proof that our decision is correct is that out of those 15,000 people who went to that education last year did not help but nothing about their employability, so there was no impact on improving the employability of that group of people. Clearly, the main goal of going to education was to artificially reduce the number of unemployed. As you know, we have passed changes to the law where we said that no matter what people are in the education process that they are still at the Employment Office because they are still unemployed. That's how we stopped hairing the number of unemployed. As regards the support for employment, which includes subsidies for the employment of young long-term unemployed and older people and special groups in the first 9 months of this year, 2856 people who are 79% more than in the same period last year, which suggests that all of our intensities that active employment policies measures are being promoted as much as possible in this area have produced good results. Also, self-employment is one measure that is not used enough in Croatia. We have 673 people this year, which is 41% more than last year. When we talk about the percentage well, but when we talk about the absolute number a little bit. So in the active employment policy measures next year, one of the highlights will be on self-employment, which I will say something about later. And what has caused some media attention lately is the issue of support for job conservation through a shortened working week. Unfortunately, it was obviously not of the interest of employers this year because employers did not know about the measure. Thus, only 170 people are involved despite the mitigation of the criteria for the application of this measure. So it's actually just one company. For the following year, we foresee further simplification of measures, expansion of measures and clear propaganda and measures among employers for reasons why employers are obviously not sufficiently familiar with this measure. The Employment Encouragement Act extended the relief for the employment of people without work experience and extended it to the employment of long-term unemployed. We are evaluating this measure and it is very difficult to evaluate it because the data should come from several sides, but we have established a system to monitor it. So this measure is primarily aimed at employers because it releases them from that gross 2 over two years, so hiring a new worker is cheaper. And together with HGK and HUP, we're going to propagate that measure among employers to make as much use of it as possible. It has been in existence for a long time and in legislation, however very little has been used, but it can only be used if employers show the need for it. In self-employment, we will change things this year so that self-employment will be simpler. As you know from today, a company for 10 kuna can be established with a total cost of about 750 kuna with the support that goes from the Employment Office will be a good mechanism for all those who have an idea, who want to compete on the market and who want to start a company to make this trip as easy as possible. As part of redefining the active employment policy measures, we will also introduce three types of public works. The first is the municipal public works that allow the public sector and all companies owned by cities, counties and states that if they employ 100% of the funding of 3 months they can keep that person at their expense for another 3 months, so 3+3, and 6+6. So it's possible that local self-government, we've had some experience here and we've had questions by local self-government, so if local self-government has the resources in its budget that it also participates in public works. So long-term unemployed people will be able to work for almost a year in those local self-governments that show the need for... Also, it remains socially beneficial non-profit public works that are under the same conditions as before. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are works in the field of health, social, culture and education. However, I want to introduce another third, new kind of public work, and it is based on individual projects of public works, i.e. self-employment for the social inclusion of special groups, which are victims of family violence, young people who have come out of the welfare system, treated addicts, defenders, parents of children with developmental difficulties, single parents, etc. These persons will be able to register an association that deals with exactly the problems that make the person himself in a special group and can continue to employ other unemployed persons through public works or professional training. We will also expand and improve the measures for the preservation of jobs. So we're not satisfied with her, but she's not a matter of failure to measure but simply of uninformedness. I don't believe there's any need for this measure, but for the lack of information of employers. That they can use that measure before they get into problems that lead them to bankruptcy, or pre-determination. So in this area, we will develop measures specifically to preserve jobs and extend the work of seasonal workers in tourism, because we think that seasonal work in tourism is an important branch and that tourism is based on quality people and it is in everyone's interest to have good regular seasons. So, the changes that go into it are that tourism companies that hire seasons when they want to use active policy and employment measures for now in, by the current measures, we've looked at just how many workers they have, how many they've fired, how many they have, how many employees. We will now propose that this assessment is based only on permanent employees, so those companies that, in tourism, want active policy and employment measures, will not be allowed to fire any of their permanent employees. Of course the seasonal part is variable. Also, we will start, start the measure that has been so far, but obviously has not been propagated enough, or has not been financially supported enough, which is a co-financing of 50% of the support on the total salary for the transition of employees over 50 years from one business entity to another business entity, and the same support will be made possible for people with disabilities. This measure has existed so far, but obviously not known enough for it or not used enough, there will be an active role for the Croatian Employment Service. Self-employment, why do we believe that self-employment with these measures that I have stated so far should be of one, one of the key measures in active employment policies and probably afterwards when we talk about the programme itself, the national reforms themselves. According to research, the development of entrepreneurship in Croatia has not been sufficiently developed, and it is obvious that we should have made even greater steps, and in part it is the legacy of a long-term agreed economy that we left in the late 1980s and also to a large extent insufficient education of young people during regular schooling. Because entrepreneurship is not sufficiently represented in the entire regular education system, and many modern countries are developing entrepreneurship as a way of life from preschool to further education. So we haven't gotten far in all this. It is clear that entrepreneurship is not sufficiently represented through school items to help develop entrepreneurial skills in professions, for all those who are expected to be carriers of entrepreneurial ventures such as small craftsmen. Support for entrepreneurship and self-employment had its own oscillations, so we started in 2000. They had the condition that each county, or every major city, worked on the establishment of entrepreneurship infrastructure and developed entrepreneurship centres in each city, and in some and several centres. The centres offered education to beginners, help to define the business plan, help in the first year of business, all that entrepreneurs should have. And these were usually free of charge for entrepreneurs or with a minimum fee, since the counties themselves financed all these activities. However, when we began to approach the EU in the lack of administrative capacity at the county level, most of these entrepreneurship centres turned into development agencies, gratefully, the development agencies were important, they contributed and we brought a lot of projects to Croatia, but we obviously lost this part because clearly the development agencies were turning to EU projects, and very little support to beginners. Also, if you look at what it looks like today, in Croatia we do not have a single network of entrepreneurial, entrepreneurial infrastructures that only gives support to employees. Therefore, in our talks with the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Employers' Association, we started a common process to launch everything that used to be done in these entrepreneurship centres, clearly with the possibility of opening up elsewhere because we simply want people who go to the market with their idea, state or Croatian Employment Service to be those partners. Therefore, the institution is experiencing restructuring, the institution is increasing the number of consultants, increasing the number of people involved in the basic task of the employment and internal retraining services and education are being transferred to the area of consultation. So we will have special parts of the Croatian Employment Service that will be in charge and it is their only job to advise people who are going into the process of self-employment, i.e. opening their own company. We will see about the extent of this measure in a way that we will have constant reports of how many people have been involved in this measure, we will have a follow-up of these companies. Clearly, it is not to expect all companies to succeed, but if of the 10 companies in the employment process 5 survives and employs at least one or two other unemployed persons, we can say that the measure has its own success and that the measure can move the part that is related to self-employment. When we talk about the funds needed for active employment policy measures, this government is in a budget that was reduced by 2012 one of the few items that increased the funds for active employment policy measures by 27%. We plan to finance in the same range next year, and if there's room maybe in the larger range. Because as I have already stated in the following period are three measures that are important in active employment policy measures, which are work without starting a employment relationship, self-employment, 4 measures work and job conservation. As far as education is concerned, education will be used in the extent in which the labour market requires additional education and requires additional staff that are not available on the labour market in Croatia at that time. And to end something about the law, so far the law has won a good success, we have a very good answer as far as all those who felt that these measures that were legally allowed them to gain a year's work experience. Those who feel that this is inappropriate or have other ideas can also use other ways of trying to get to the desired year of work experience. Of 100,000 young people under the age of 29, about 70,000 are without a year’s work experience, which is devastating because these young people cannot run for any job because they are always looking for that year’s work experience. At a time when the situation is good when job openings are also open, and the place of trainees who are one of the ways you will get that year's work experience proved to be to your employer and if he concludes that you are a good worker, then he will need you if he has space to hire you. However, at a time when jobs are not being opened, even trainees' seats shall not be opened. And so the state must jump into that vacuum and launch measures that will allow you to gain that year's work experience. We started it, started in 2010 when very few people were involved, in 2011 something more, in 2012, even more so that in 2013, I expect that we will have a very large number of people involved in this area. By making the law itself immediately after the adoption, we were covered by the e-mails of people who felt that they had been unjustly denied for this measure for the reasons that they had to work on jobs of lower complexity in order to enable themselves to study and exist. It is known that some young people are studying outstandingly so they had no student rights, and then they had a clear job, and they were formally registered in retirement insurance, so they had more than one year of training in retirement insurance and were naturally placed in an unfavourable position with everyone else, and in particular we are apostrophysing women who, because they were exercising their rights under other regulations such as the right to a nursery and kindergarten, means during pregnancy, and all of them were discriminated against because they were not able to use this measure because they had a job internship enrolled in retirement insurance. It is also a professional training measure for work without the establishment of a working relationship aimed at achieving professional work experience and, in particular, for persons who have several years of training outside the profession, it was necessary to define the work experience achieved in months to determine the duration of vocational training, depending on the duration of the traineeship prescribed by the profession itself. We have prescribed that the duration of the internship is 12 months in some 24 months, but the chambers have also reacted that for some occupations it takes more than 24 months so that by amending this law we define and this part will therefore be possible and professional training without establishing a working relationship of 12, 24 and 36 months depending on the profession. These are primarily master and chamber occupations which are related to the very regulations that define the obligation to pass an expert exam. It was also within the law that a young man could only run for this measure if he was 90 days at the Employment Service. That measure is unnecessary. There's no reason to be there, so there's a change in that part. So all those applying to the Employment Service will be able to use the measure immediately. We are also removing another bureaucratic barrier, which is that if you were a seasonal employee, you can't apply to the Employment Service any further because you were employed seasonally, so you can't use either the self-employment measure or the professional training measure or any other measure, so we're removing that barrier. So on the other hand... and one more thing that if you're, say, educated for some occupation and you have a business idea to get with that occupation get a job. Under the current legislation, you could not use self-employment support, so that part is being abolished. So we remove all the barriers that stand between a person who wants to use active employment policy measures and come in a position to make use of the measure. As regards seasonal employment in agriculture, this was very well received, 270870 coupons were purchased by 30 September 2012, and 59870 persons were hired, so they were the ones who took the booklet for seasonal work in agriculture. The highest use was plant cultivation, and the smaller part of fishing and livestock farming and mostly was used by small companies and used mostly by the OPGs. There was a problem that wanted another part to be solved, and these are natural persons, so that part of agriculture that is not related to the CAP. We allow this law to allow these people to be allowed seasonally employed in agriculture, meaning to say so to an ordinary farmer. On the other hand, there was some uncertainty as to what it means for members of the household, what it means to work next door and help. So the law and we defined it, even though it was defined by the Law on Preventing illegal competition, so illegal work, and here we explained it. So, which means, which family gets into that part, which means neighbourly assistance with the fact that we've limited neighborly and friendly assistance only to natural persons, not to the OPG, clearly not to companies. And finally, the law has led to a shift in active employment policy measures, they have been more thought about, they have been discussed and it is not the last time we will talk about them because these are the measures used at the time when there is no job creation, when unemployment is growing and that is the part and the role of the country's task to do so. Finally, it is clear that active employment policy measures do not create jobs, that only new investments and job creations effectively reduce unemployment and this government is working intensively and what is absolutely certain, the results and these policies and active employment policies will be visible during the following year.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18138	Thank you very much, Minister. We have three replicas on your exhibit. The first Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18139	Honored Madam President, Mr. Minister. I'm reporting for replication. I will list a few of Mr. Minister's pearls, thus preventing the hairstyle of the number of unemployed, all of our measures have produced good results, we've brought a lot of projects to Croatia, and the other brilliants he mentioned will not, I can't look back at what I said in two minutes. Dear Mr. Minister, you mentioned kindergarten, we're not kindergarten here, we're mature people, and some of them are old, and here you can count me in, there's some younger people, and I'm glad, and especially the population that's watching us on TV are more or less mature people. This is the story of kindergarten, this is the story of chamomile. We need a serious cure for what you're saying here to talk about supplementing the employment promotion law. You were here talking to kids in kindergarten and talking about chamomile, and we need a serious cure for serious people for serious diseases. Mr. Minister, with these measures, you're only making it possible in some way to complete the traineeship and I support it, this 1700 kuna, a year, 10 kuna firms, I support that we immediately understand what we're talking about. But you and your government with these measures and with this policy will not hire anyone for the next year or three years because everything, your government's overall policy and your ministry is based on the measures that produce new unemployed. You've raised taxes, in some ways you've died of investment, everything that's been done in Croatia you've stopped. Croatia is at -270. What kind of employment are you talking about, Mr. Secretary? The number of unemployed is increasing from day to day. If you want to increase employment, you need to unfreeze investment, boost investment, cut taxes...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18140	Thank you very much. ... Replication response [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Kola Marasović timed out for replica [[Intruder Marasovic: This policy should be changed urgently, not sold fog.]] Thank you very much. [[Upadica Marasovic: This is the sale of fog to Croatian people and Croatian citizens.]] Please stick to two minutes of replica and two minutes of response. Please, we have a lot of reports, we'll be working late at night again. Replication response, Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18141	Well, I don't know how much you understand things, but let me get this straight, the camel is the same medicine, and that's what you and I know well. So it depends on what it's used for. Therefore, I did not say that this is a substitute for starting investments, I did not say that this is a substitute for opening new jobs, but I made it clear that at a time of crisis, it is not only a Croatian invention but the whole of Europe is doing so, among other things, the European Union, which has also launched this employment institute without the establishment of a working relationship throughout Europe. So at a time when there are no new jobs, the state jumps in with its measures to prepare young people, prepare its unemployed for the moment when jobs will be opened and employment will be reached. So I haven't said at any point that it's a replacement, it's one measure that started at the time of the HDZ government, so if you criticize this measure you criticize your government that brought it in, it's the same thing we do. Therefore, it is only a matter of how much you will put into that measure and what measures you will promote and which you will not. So I don't think we've been deluding the public or hairing anything. We said clearly there's so many unemployed, we're going to work to reduce that number of unemployed, and it's the result of everything that hasn't been done in the past eight years.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18142	Thank you. Next replica Domagoj Ivan Milosevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18143	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, we all think in this House, we support every measure of active employment, but it is easy for you to answer your question why entrepreneurs do not use these measures. Well, because the vast majority of Croatian entrepreneurs are fighting for survival today. And this struggle for survival is the consequence of tax repression, i.e. the decline in consumption, the decline in production, the decline in investment, and of course we have a growth in unemployment after all. What I think we all expect, we expect from this government an emergency measure to preserve existing jobs. We will all agree that preserving existing jobs is safer and cheaper and more realistic than any new job that is expensive and will last much longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18144	Replication response, Minister Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18145	So I hope that around this law, we will agree on a change of law because it is in everyone's interest to enable young people if there is no employment with the creation of new jobs to allow another way to gain a job experience or to get a job. I would not say that employers are not using these measures because they are fighting for survival, they did not use a measure that is related to support for the preservation of jobs. However, we have a 64% increase in the use of employment support. So 50% subsidising gross wages for newly employed young people and long-term employees. So the employers of those who are opening jobs are starting to use this measure. I said that we were dissatisfied with this job conservation measure because perhaps we are with that measure that employers were more aware that this measure exists to preserve some jobs and allow the company to not go bankrupt. We'll work on it, but I say support for hiring new people, so who are long-term unemployed and young people have an increase of 64%. Which means that this measure is self-using.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18146	Thank you. And Vice President Zeljko Reiner has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18147	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, I truly believe in the good intentions of Minister Mrsic and his efforts. Here he is every month, two in front of us with some new measure. However, it is not a problem at all. The problem is that the rest of the government he belongs to is making moves that create new unemployed. It's a key problem. And unfortunately, all these measures that are being taken and which are commendable will absolutely do nothing to help. The best ones speak numbers. I agree and the last government had measures to encourage employment, and when we look at the number of persons affected, that last year, 36,000 468 people got a job. This year, 21 thousand 770. Probably the numbers at the end of the year will be equal, but that's not the problem, the problem is that new unemployed are being created and that's what we're talking about here for tens of years, and even hundreds of people are out of a job. That's the problem. And it's no problem that it hasn't been done according to the minister's allegations for the last 8 years because it's clear that although the media has been trying to convince all of us, the pretty successful people have managed to convince that the crisis has suddenly appeared, the crisis started in 2008, it reached its maximum in 2009, so not so many people have lost their jobs, it hasn't failed so much, etc. So it didn't suddenly appear in 2012 but it lasts before, apparently some mechanisms existed that could be controlled, and now unfortunately these mechanisms don't exist. Therefore, unfortunately, despite all the efforts of Minister Mrsic, the situation will not improve, and I would only plead not his direct sector, it is several hundred people who have an obligation to train from his former sector and also my health care staff, which unfortunately do not cover these measures, who must complete the internship to pass a state exam and get some work at all, and which HZZO did not call this year at all. And they're standing in the airlock, unable to get a job, and they can't even begin the internship even volunteering. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18148	Thank you very much. You've exceeded your time for half a minute. Replication response, Minister Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18149	So when we talk about numbers, let's do numbers. The Croatian Employment Service is when we watch the first 9 months of this year and the first 9 months of last year hired 11% more. So we've hired more people, we've had more jobs, but the problem is that at the same time we're getting bigger unemployed and you can't say that it's just the consequence of these nine months, but it's the result of the accumulated problems that have been for years. And people lose jobs, lose more jobs than we can open jobs and hire. And when we talk about active employment policy measures just to say that last year, out of that 36,000, 15 grand was in education, so almost half, but let's let it go, so we can say that each one had his own way of implementing these measures. But here's the number first to the ninth month of 2011 and the first to the ninth month of 2012 means in 2011 we had 22 thousand 283 included in this measure, and for the first nine months of this year, 23 thousand 166. I note that in education at the same time in 2011 we had 7,000 people, and this year in 1900. Therefore, the measures are clearly extended to all those who have the right to use this measure, and as regards colleagues who have a mandatory internship, they cannot enter this measure because this measure is voluntary, so you can use it or cannot, and the internship is mandatory and the internship needs to be taken care of. And I think my colleagues will be on the job very soon.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18150	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We're moving on to a debate. I'm opening a debate and the clubs are up first. SDP club and colleague Vanja Posavac. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18151	Dear vice presidents, ministers with assistants, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will support the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment Encouragement Act. The current Employment Encouragement Act was adopted in the Croatian Parliament at the session held on 11 May 2012. This law aims to strengthen employability and employment incentives regulate the conditions for the exercise of the right to facilitate employers' employment of unemployed persons without working experience in calling for whom they have been educated, i.e. long-term unemployed. In addition, with the aim of strengthening the employability and acquisition of the skills needed for work, the use of active employment policy measures under a specific regulation regulates the possibility of professional training for work without the establishment of a work relationship, irrespective of whether the professional examination or the work experience of the law or other regulation is laid down as a condition for the performance of jobs for a particular occupation. Thirdly, this law regulates a simpler way of hiring seasonal workers on temporary, or occasional jobs in agriculture because of the specific characteristics of seasonal work in agriculture. The derogation to this law in the public has raised the greatest attention and interest to professional training for work without the establishment of employment relations and seasonal employment in agriculture. As the citizens were enabled to communicate with the competent ministry and the government, the most frequently asked citizens were related to the professional training measure for work without the establishment of a working relationship, i.e. with the prescribed limit of a total of 1 year of training achieved in pension insurance. In fact, we all know that a significant number of persons in the Republic of Croatia during their studies had to do low-complex work, to enable themselves to study and exist. Whether they worked as waiters, temporarily in tourism and so on. In that number there are many extraordinary students and they did not exercise student rights and their internship was formally recorded in pension insurance. Thus, after completing the study, the said person collected more than 1 year of pension insurance training, but they were placed in an unfavourable position on the labour market because they were not interesting to employers because of the lack of working experience in the calling for which they were educated. These persons are directly prevented from using the technical training measure. Also, the second group of people in an unfavourable position on the labour market, and because of the lack of expertise and more than 1 year of training in pension insurance, make up women without working experience who have achieved an internship on the basis of parental and parental leave rights. These women are in an even more unfavourable position because, as unemployed mothers, they find it difficult to exercise the rights of other regulations, such as the first on the manger, the kindergarten, and thus their search for work is limited. Also, unfortunately, we are still witnessing cases of discrimination by employers who prefer to hire a childless person. Therefore, the work experience achieved should be precisely defined, since the training measure for work without the establishment of a working relationship is aimed at achieving the work experience related to the profession. Also, there was a problem along with the length of keeping a person in the records of the body responsible for keeping records of the unemployed and it was definitely seen that 90 days should be shortened, that this is a limiting deadline. That is why, and in line with everything previously said in this law, it is proposed to redefine the idea of an unemployed person without working experience in order to enable professional training and persons who have achieved more than 1 year of training in pension insurance. In this respect, these amendments and additions to the unemployed would be considered to be a person who, in the record of the body responsible for keeping records of unemployment, is kept for more than 30 days and who does not have more than 1 year of registered training for whom she has been educated, regardless of the total pension insurance period achieved. Therefore, the period of stay in the register is shortened from 90 to 30 days, and the period of 1 year is replaced by a period of 1 year of training for which the unemployed person has been educated, regardless of the total period achieved in pension insurance. In addition, these amendments and additions are prescribed for the duration of professional training for more than 24 months due to the professions prescribed for the duration of the traineeship at 36 months. It is also prescribed that the right to facilitate the employment of unemployed persons lasts for 2 years, not as it has been up to 2 years, thus increasing the effect of encouraging employment on target groups. Also, these additions, changes will solve certain concerns and difficulties that have arisen regarding seasonal employment. This was a difficulty in identifying family members, and the same applies to the possibility of buying coupons from natural persons, i.e. persons who have no registered activity. In these amendments and additions, there is also a further clarification of seasonal work for certain jobs and new jobs that were not foreseen by the previous law. This supplement extends the definition of an employer who can hire on a temporary basis, i.e. on occasional seasonal jobs in agriculture on a natural person, i.e. the person who has no registered agricultural activity and is not the holder of the OPG which is recorded in the relevant register. This law prescribes that members of the family of the employer of a natural person who can temporarily hire in seasonal jobs in agriculture, can assist that natural person in performing those tasks as part of the tradition of providing family assistance that is common and common with us in the Republic of Croatia. The exception also from the obligation to conclude a seasonal contract is prescribed the possibility of friendly and neighbouring help to do business when this work is done without payment and other material assistance, but only when this assistance is provided to a natural person, and this is the same way that we in the Republic of Croatia is also part of tradition. All these above-mentioned additions and amendments to the Employment Encouragement Act will contribute to an even better and better quality implementation of active employment policy measures, which is very important in today's economic situation and therefore the SDP club supports the amendments and additions of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18152	Thank you, colleague. On your three replicas exhibit. Boro Grubisic first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18153	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here's a colleague of mine offered me one of your lines on the line, and that sentence is that citizens, people with no work experience in calling, even without an expert exam, etc. And it's good that he'll get a job. However, I would ask you how many, in these 10 months, your executive authorities in the state of Croatia have been employed by undefined people without working experience in calling indefinitely in managerial places, in ministries, etc. Where did you put thousands of your likeers? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18154	You're too late to answer your line. Next replica, Anna Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18155	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I didn't hear you call me. Here I want to replicate to my colleague Posavec that it is really impressive how much time we spend today, as much as it is in the explanation of the minister and in the explanation of the ministry of the bill's proposal, so you spend almost 10 minutes today explaining to us how there are people who worked during their studies who couldn't get a job in the profession, so they had to do other jobs. In fact, when we adopted this law in May, we clearly read the intensities of your bill's proposal, and then we warned you that what was intensities, and that during the time of the crisis as the minister said when there was not much need for trainees and when not many trainees would be hired to encourage the state with their incentives. And we realized the law's intensity to make it primarily to gain experience in the profession so that later young people could apply for employment. And then we warned that the corruption in the law and the determination of an unemployed person was not well-supply, we warned of Mr. Minister and in the debate and in person, but we were given a very non-chalant responsibility that we will resolve by way of a guide. However, it was clearly understood that in a regulated rule of law, there is no way to resolve something different from what is set out in the legal provision, and that when an official applies the law as it writes, and the result is now the proposal to amend and supplement the law, and that we have accepted a well-meaning remark, we would not have to change that law today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18156	Thank you. The answer to the replica of my colleague, Posavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18157	Dear colleagues, I respect your replica, but certain things have been shown in practice and these are the additions and changes that are now definitely directed towards the right direction. What is important to this Employment Encouragement Act is most important, so it is precisely for young people who do not have a working experience to gain this work experience without being downplayed by the fact that they have done occasional jobs for several months or more that are not related to their profession. This is also the most important thing about this law, which is to regulate both occasional and temporary employment in agriculture, and everything else is pure policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18158	Thank you. And my colleague Dujomir Marasovic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18159	Your Honor, Madam President. This is all pure politics, we're here for pure politics. I'm replicating the presentation of my colleague Vanji Posavac. She said that the legal seasonal work in agriculture was made there to achieve good positive results. So, dear fellow Posavac, with these seasonal measures, it's all right to support the minister in this attempt and in similar attempts, it's okay that your colleague Reina said that parts of your policy are positive, and this legislation in agriculture. But what you colleagues won't say is because I know you know it, so I won't tell you why you don't understand it, you understand it, but you won't say it, and there will come a time when Croatian citizens will have to tell them and make bills. You have inflicted so much evil on agriculture with this policy that this is not a camel, this is sweet water, not sweet water, but plain water, not plain water, but clouded water as a cure for. You've done so much damage to agriculture with your policy over the past year that without a job, they'll lose their jobs as farm owners. They won't have where seasons work that's the thing. And that's already happening, it's happened that hundreds of farms have been closed down where these seasons should work. It has already silenced 100 agricultural holdings where agricultural cultures are grown. That's the problem that you understand but you won't say but I don't think a good part of the government understands that because I don't think they're mean to run a bad policy. I don't think they understand things.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18160	Thank you. A reply to the replica of my colleague Posavac.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18161	Thank you. I don't know if I've slept through the last eight years or if you've slept over. If someone threw agriculture on their feet and destroyed agriculture, it was a government you've been involved in for the past eight years. The situation in agriculture has not been a state since a month ago, but the state you've made since you've ruled HDZ for the past eight years.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18162	We're done with the replicas. Next club IDS and colleague Damir Cain. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18163	Your Honor, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary, Your Honor, Mr. Representatives. Yes, I can agree with the opposition that the opportunities in the country are difficult, that they are painful, but they are not harmless. Likewise, I personally think that the changes to the head of the country that took place after the 2011 elections have indeed come at the last minute, and I am also sure that the place of Minister Mrsic or Minister is better put to work and that pension system is the most ungrateful place in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. But you have to be just as honest and say it today, and so it was yesterday. It may not be the hardest, but I'm saying it's the most ungrateful. For me, the hardest thing at this point is to attract investment, to save a threatened Croatian economy, for example. Assigned to Mr. Chacic. Come on, let me see my Dalmatians now what you're going to do with this shipyard down in Split. In the economy ministry, they have run an analysis that would cost the state a billion kuna in bankruptcy, new losses plus incentives for Brodosplit in the next year 1.25 billion kuna, but due to the EU's social opportunities and attitudes, it is said. So-called The additional losses of Brodosplit are not 370 but 570 million kuna. I'm not saying that she didn't deal with these problems, say, with the former government. Now that's the point of the gentlemen of this law. That's what we heard, that's this on page two, three reasons, not to talk about articles now. I quote here, this legislative proposal proposes redefining the idea of an unemployed person without work experience in order to enable professional training and persons who have achieved more than one year of training in pension insurance, etc. It is true, Croatia is in crisis, which is not to be specifically discussed and I am afraid that we may be next year. In the first six months, I said the same thing yesterday, foreign investment, I didn't say it, it's CNB data, so foreign investments were at the level of postwar 1996 and 2010, respectively. They exported only 154m euros. And what it means is that in Croatia there is no room for foreign investment, but there are no places, that the world is in recession. But another thing that needs to be equally clear, openly acknowledged, there is no investment among other things because of 2012. Croatia did not privatise what on the one hand is said about HPB, Croatia's insurance does not have to be bad, but we should say that privatisation of the Croatian economy mainly concerned banks, or those left behind in banks, and these banks were in some way the main subject of foreign investment. Total foreign investments amount to 25.9 billion euros from 1991 to this year. 2/3 of that money concerns banks, remains in telecommunications, trade, real estate, something is invested in this Istrian ipslon, buying cements and la Coromacno down, near Rasha or Labin, anyway. Yesterday, and something was said by the minister, among other things, I read an interesting article in the Morning List, which concerns this particular matter. State support is said to preserve jobs, I quote, this year has been used by one single company. The minister himself mentioned this one company, he didn't say who it was. ... From the state of training, the workers received 240,000 kuna and it saved them from destruction. [[You don't understand.]] As many as 169 out of 340 employees have been perfected, the installers have become welders, others have become operating machinery controllers and so on in a circle. Now the director of this company says, we got a total of 240,000 kuna from the state, in two months at 120,000 kuna, and that saved us, but we still had to cut our wages, our shipyards. Now that, that's the essence of this law, as the director says, has failed, Europe has begun to get smaller and smaller orders, so there's something crisisy going on. We are dealing with, quote, producing smaller tourist cruises, but it also happened, at one point we were out of work, there was not a single order, we were thinking about how to endure without everything going to waste, that 340 families from Blato and the island of Korčula would not stay hungry and we decided with the state support that Minister Mrsic was talking about. Supports, I quote, for employment depending on whether they are small, large or medium-sized employers up to 50% of gross salary costs up to a maximum of 12 months. When it comes to training employers can get up to 70%, etc. And I agree for the third time with a minister who says that many employers simply for one such solution in a year that is behind us or in this period that they simply did not know about us and therefore I say we should not envy Mr. Mrsic's resources. This year we received this strategy of the Government Programme for the period 2013-2015. These include those long-term government objectives, from macroeconomic stability, competitive economy, balanced regional development, environmental protection, fisheries, promotion of tourism, agriculture, strengthening the rule of law, etc. And according to that programme or to those objectives of the government of GDP in 2012, it was supposed to remain at the level of 2011, unfortunately it will be -1.5, -1.6% In 2013, it should grow at 1.8%, but to achieve projections should grow at 4%, and the main driver in 2013 should be these big investments. Today we also read that under these circumstances, nothing is happening, Linic is returning from Japan soon, has achieved so far in Japan, and much in Europe, with the Turks, too. And that is why he intends to go to these energy projects from Plomin, I personally hope for gas, via HE on the Sava, on Drava, Kosinj-Senj, LNG Krk and Rijeka, wind power plants, etc. And here in some of these thermal power plants, money return is possible in five years. It would be best for Croatia to do so, but Croatia has no money to give to a private clear investor. Of course, it's not even possible to attract that money in a year. It's not possible to spend it. If Croatia spent it probably within a year, it would not have had a major problem in the next period. And so many three employment measures at this time are the meaning of this self-employment, professional training for work without starting a employment relationship, support for the preservation of the job that we are talking about today. The Croatian government, we must admit, has managed to consolidate the expenditure and this revenue side of the Croatian budget. Among other things, with bigger taxes, that's the same thing. Which hit a good part of the economy pretty good. She failed to stop this galloping unemployment decline in consumption Mr. Milosevic spoke of and I will again tell me the same scares this new tax. However, what this law is talking about is one of the measures to help, but so that someone does not think that when the government reduces or announces a reduction in the number of employees in the public sector among other things, jobs in the same public sector can be achieved elsewhere. It is a business of the economy, small and large, and the government must clearly create some legislative investment framework, this working legislation to run, to encourage competitiveness I do not know how to encourage financial discipline and so on. It's a big deal, and we all know there's just no time at this point. Yes, you should be honest, you should say opportunities in Croatia are difficult. But the world too, or life doesn't begin with us. Some parameters, I dare say in these first few months are worse than in 2011. But it was clear to everyone in 2011 at the time of the election that it would be perhaps worse than it would be. This government clearly doesn't have a magic wand to start things off by saying it's better than nothing. What are you going to do with that bankrupt shipbuilding? Of course you should get into it. What are you going to do with the destroyed ironworks? Of course you should try to save that. What are you going to do with 33 billion kunas in HAC? How do you deal with that? I said, the government consolidates that consumption, budgeting, public spending, sort of solves indifference, etc., etc. I know that Croatia has a whole series of objective moments that the previous government has been dealing with. We are still today a victim of aggression on the Republic of Croatia. The consequences of that war will always follow us. There are wounded, there are pensions, etc. On the other hand, what is Croatia? Croatia is a small shell in the European ocean with 4.5 million inhabitants. But the biggest problem in Croatia I say today may be the inaction from 2005 to 2010 when politics was exclusively led to win the elections in 2007, i.e. how to position themselves in the 2011 elections. I'll tell Croatia is the victim and escape of the former prime minister. With the escape of the former prime minister, investors have fled, we have lost investments or they have stopped and with Croatia simply no one wanted to have to deal with it. And I'm glad that Mrs Kosor came in now and she could work as hard as she wanted, but if there hadn't been a change, I assure you Croatia would have found itself in a difficult, difficult situation. Maybe you'd be paralyzed, as well as you are now. What I am also pleased with, Mr Kalmeta, that Minister Mrsic also cited local self-government, these investment centres, however, the problem of development perhaps Croatia, is perhaps this hyper how to call it a centralised Croatian state. Croatia was the fastest to develop there from the 1960s to the 1970s mainly from the 1970s to the 1990s when it was most decentralised. At that time, the congregations of our municipalities were almost like confederate institutions. I claim that a free state of Bavaria in the Federal Republic of Germany did not have or has no autonomy such as that of a small municipality of Buzet or Zadar at the time, or I do not know Sibenik or Pula or Rijeka or any other city. And that's just as true. They decided about everything, the good party dictated the terms that should be said, entrepreneurial freedoms were stalled or not or conditioned or restricted, I don't know how I'm going to say it, but if nothing else was on the part of the quasi democracy, but people were doing it. Here, and a lot of people are going to transfer me, they had to leave to survive in Germany, Canada, and some were expelled. And it should be admitted as well. Now, where are we today with this hypercentralised Croatia? The municipalities and cities in the total fiscal mass or budget reach about 9%, the county 2%, the City of Zagreb 5%. That means somewhere around 16 to 17%, the state controls 84% County capacity needs to be strengthened, the second thing is whether it takes so many, whether it takes so many municipalities. Although I claim that these small municipalities from the 93rd Inland of Istria have been reborn, but someone is going to say, these bodies have been filled with administration and in crisis the administration is beginning to deal with itself, not with the public. Clearly, I'm struggling to survive every one that has the conditions to survive, but the most endangered position today is the county that is burdened primarily by general hospitals, whether it's about Pula, Zadar, Slavonski Brod, etc., and the county capacity is from 100,110,120 to about 300 or 400 million kuna there if they have 500 thousand inhabitants. And that is why I really want to believe that Croatia will be decentralisationd, so perhaps if it gets closer to the citizens and this employment problem is easier, but do not envy the position of Minister of Labour and the pension system even four times today as it should not have envied the former Minister of Labour and the social system.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18164	Thank you, colleague Cain. To your 4 replicas exhibit. First colleague, Djuro the Drinker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18165	... Wait a minute. [[Last-on speaker]] Dear fellow you wrongly believe that foreign investments are solely related to potential large privatisation ventures or activities. 150m euros of course hurt, the more the government has promised to launch investment tsunamis. Last year, to remind you, there were no privatisations, no ventures, no government sold anything, so there were over a billion euros in foreign investment. Then you were worried that it was a catastrophic situation, if last year with a billion was catastrophic, I don't know how we're going to assess the state of these investments, foreign investment this year. The reason is, in fact, the entirely wrong economic policy of this government, the deterioration of the investment climate, the deterioration of business conditions, the increase of legal uncertainty, and these are essentially the key reasons why they are this year, and it is obvious that this will be in the future, unfortunately, as long as this government continues, why foreign investments have lagged behind. And until finally someone comes in and repairs that entrepreneurial investment climate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18166	I assume you wanted a reply to the replica, not a breach of the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18167	That's it, that's
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18168	Replication response. A colleague of Caine's.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18169	So I'm going to say, I'm going to repeat, here's another moment, watch out for these situations today in 2012 regarding the escape of your prime minister or our prime minister, and my prime minister who's been in that post since 2003 until 2009. After this happened you stayed paf, and the whole of Croatia had just experienced one course. We do not know these reasons yet but we know that after that all these parameters are not because of opportunities in Europe and in our environment we have begun to radically change. I agree, our investments have fallen this year, but in this environment and in this kind of, perhaps business climate in the Republic of Croatia, and even when it comes to the appearance of our opposition abroad, they can hardly be bigger in due course.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18170	The next replica has a colleague Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18171	Your Honor, Madam President. My colleague Caine would have had a lot of things here today that my colleague Cain really is, I don't like, say, I don't think it has anything to do with reality. But I'm going to say a replica on this one. That's what happened yesterday. No, today as it was yesterday or yesterday as it was today, and I'm going to replicate it, but sooner or later I'm going to tell you fellow Cain that there's a wound on your heart, a gas station, and in Istria you mentioned it today, and I'm going to give you a little digression. Let me, you said yesterday that it wasn't a dead goat, that Cain lives forever only Hajduk lives forever and love is eternal, while it lasts, and IDS is truly humiliated. You've been thrown on your knees with this and your entire politics in Istria, the party and these neoliberal capitalists have thrown you on your knees, humiliated you, and no one today would have been smart, maybe it had a logic 5 years ago, or 3. Today, no one smart would work at the coal plant, etc. It was supposed to build a gas station. But why did I answer, I'm telling you it wasn't like it was yesterday. The past government, now I'm going to say only about agriculture, has realized that it has to improve agriculture, that in the socialist system 50 years agriculture has been continuously destroyed. I don't have anything. That was a big time. It wasn't good. On the other hand, in the EU over the past 59, 60 years agriculture has been raised, subsidies have been huge. And now that the government has gone to the subsidies of agriculture a lot of good things have been done in Croatia, lots of vineyards planted, lots of orchards, lots of barns. If there were irregularities, when purchased tractors needed to remove these irregularities, someone who had taken something to close, and fixed the system, and raised incentives in agriculture, because it's our only chance where we can instantly intervene in a positive sense.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18172	A colleague, Marasovic, has run out of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18173	And you've come to logic from 46th, this government destroys agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18174	Please nice, please. You spoke again for more than two minutes and about a subject that my colleague Cain never spoke of. Here's a colleague of Kaja's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18175	My dear friend mentions some of my wounds, supposedly socialism. Well, I said there was no democracy for the Parliament speaker before, but at the time in this country, whatever it was and whatever it was, there were 2.5 million people working. Whether someone will admit it or not, I don't know, but all of this we've been spending in the last 20 years how to say it was created in that period, right. I agree with a lot of things inside IDS, and in Istria, living hard, distressingly, I will say the same at this time of crisis we may be standing in place, saving us from tourism saving God a successful Ulnik, close to the border but above all the laborability of the people of that space. But it's hard. In 2012, I say it has been the most difficult in Istria since normal war years, since '99 when we had lost the season since the NATO impact on SR Yugoslavia. But if all Marasovics had problems like Istria today in Croatia, I would almost dare say, it may sound rude, so that Croatia has no problem. The local self-government in Istria from '93 to 2000 struggled exclusively by saving companies, today as well as the state may be more concerned with the collection of income, perhaps more is being helped large than the small ones who are the key to survival but I want to believe that in the time ahead it will be seen and that in some ways politics in Istria will be slightly corrected. But no matter what, he'll live and that IDS will live and that our hair will live and Istra will live forever, just as your Heiduk is eternal.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18176	Thank you very much. Next replica of my colleague Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18177	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Cain mentioned earlier in his presentation that yesterday in the morning list a company that only used to be a company... I have been president of the supervisory board of the company for a long time, so I have to say because of the truth and those employees did not save those 240 thousand kunas because the company annually achieved a 20 million-euro income and is one of the few, which is what the journalists wrote I think it is because of these employees to say. They are working on the world market for around 20 million euros a year and are one of the few shipyards that are here and along with the oil that you mentioned earlier. But in order for this company, the government should continue to finance good projects in the Croatian shipbuilding that the past government started, which is primarily to encourage the construction of Croatian shipboats in domestic shipyards, which they gave up. It should continue to rebuild the Jadrolinia fleet, should continue to encourage the construction of these small ships of passenger cruises, which also this company, as you yourself said, builds for the needs of small Croatian boaters. It should continue with the measure of encouraging the economy on Croatian islands, increase the detachment because it is difficult to shipbuilding on land and you can imagine what even more complicated circumstances are produced on islands. One of the solutions for Croatian shipbuilding and for the company Raj from Blato is to continue the construction of the Pelješki bridge. I've said it many times that the Peles Bridge in its hull has about 50,000 tons of steel in it, which is equivalent to about five ships carrying 50,000 tons. Therefore, a series of measures can be done by this government if it really wants to help the Croatian economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18178	Thank you very much. The answer to my colleague Cain's replica. Here you go. ... Please, colleagues, stick to the time. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18179	The director of this company, Mr. Representative, where you were a member of the Supervisory Board or the chairman of the Supervisory Board, praises Mr. Mrsic's actions. I didn't make anything up. I was just literally quoting from word to word. I agree with you that 240 million kuna could not save the company, 240 thousand kuna meant 30 and a few thousand euros could not save the company that has an income of 20 million euros on the foreign or domestic market, is not possible. But it might have been possible to bridge some spending in that 7 or 8 months, 6 or 7 months. And I think what's good is that you should also point out. Everything's in order. We need to build Jadrolini, we need to do this, we need to do what's down there, we need to make a general hospital in Pula, but the money I want to believe is about to start, but the money just isn't there right now. Everything's fine, but there's no money. Let's figure it out. So we're down to 6% or 7% of industrial production. It was planned to grow at 1.8% in the following year but if we keep in mind and fall this year it should be almost 4%. Therefore, let us not be surprised if the opportunities in 2013 are more difficult than they may have been in 2012. As for the Peljega Bridge, Croatia absolutely needs to be connected to the south. Just does he need a bridge or maybe he needs a tunnel? Why the tunnel? Because 45 km of fast road from Pazin to Učka tunnel plus 5.5 km of Učka tunnel will cost 250 million euros, and the Peljeski bridge should cost 4 billion kunas or now new around 2.5 billion kuna. Therefore, this cost should also be taken into account, and such a form will be able to help, for example, through such a form. islands or Jadrolini.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18180	Thank you. And the last replica of Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18181	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. You mentioned decentralisation, or how local self-government or regional self-government can contribute to employment. I think that there are high expectations from the state, but in a crisis, we must all be aware that we must contribute that we must be very often innovative, we must have the will, the idea, or accept what is provided for us by a concrete Employment Service or a state policy. I am aware that jobs depend on the economy or state policy, but this is how local self-government can contribute a lot if it wants to. In particular, the city of Dubrovnik has very good cooperation and accepts everyone provided by the Ministry of Tools, and we, together with the Dubrovnik Development Agency, the Employment Service and the city of Dubrovnik, are working on programs and even sometimes before we get from the Ministry here present minister. Therefore, I think anyone can in their own portfolio because anyone who knows their own area better than the people of local self-government can do a better analysis of any project that is being provided. So we don't have to expect, we don't have to lean on each other all the time, and we don't have to pretend that we're powerless, we need to roll our sleeves, we need to have the will, we need to accept the tools provided.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18182	Thank you. Replication response, colleague Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18183	I don't expect impossible, I'm real and I'm not looking for simply impossible. When we talk about this decentralisation, yes, at this point I have to admit, too, I'm not some great optimist, especially after some measures like the State's Attorney's activities when trying to book across the Adriatic coast on forest, agricultural and other land that is until '91. the years were within the limits of the spatial plans of the then congregations of the municipalities. But I will repeat again, I do not believe that Croatia will ever be decentralisationd as it was in the '60s. By the '90s, though I'd do anything in that direction, even though I'd like it to happen. But it's the fastest thing that's ever happened in that period. Today we have a situation where the total fiscal capacity of our municipalities, cities control or realise around 9% of these budget revenues, county 2%, city of Zagreb about 5%, 84% of the funds available to the Republic of Croatia. I used to appeal to the speaker that the capacity of the county in this country should be simply strengthened. It's another thing, I said, and then, as many of them as we have, whether there should be so many municipalities, whether there should be so many cities because mainly at a time of crisis when the administration of the bugs simply takes care of the public but takes care of itself. But that these small municipalities also helped develop the interior of Croatia, there is no doubt about it. I want so much to believe that in due course, the government will have the courage to move forward with decentralisation processes because the closer the government to the citizens, the more jobs it may be in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18184	Thank you. On behalf of the promoter, Minister Miranda Mrsic reported. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18185	Dear Madam Vice President. So we should commend this director that it really doesn't make sense for the man who did a good deed for his company to take credit for what he did. Therefore, support for the preservation of jobs is support that goes directly to the worker in the pocket. So the state's support for co-financed part of the salary, co-financed education and was done in that company. And what we want, that part spreads to the maximum to all those who get in trouble. So, to be absolutely clear, support for the preservation of jobs goes directly to the worker, so they go to his salary, and that's how you get through the part where there's no job or when a job is expected to arrive. This director and this company took advantage of it in the best possible way, they're an example of how it should be done. So they ran out of part of the job, they knew they had to move to another market, until they got that market, and by the time the orders came, there was no job, no money, then they could go bankrupt or use this measure and get over it, educate people for the new interests they needed for the new markets, and they did this, and I think they need people and that director to take their hat off to that extent. I would like more such directors to have more such companies because the situation is unfortunately difficult and with this measure perhaps we can save certain jobs, which is most important. Save and maintain jobs for a time when you shut down the workplace and when the company takes a spiral of bankruptcy then the return is gone. I say we can, we have ways, the funds are secured in the budget, just obviously it takes a little courage to get into this measure. I hope that next year with the simplification of paperwork, the increase in funds in that part will be more used because it is clear that the situation is difficult and that these cases will be increasingly.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18186	Thank you, Minister. Two replicas to your exposure. My colleague Dinko Buric first.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18187	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, it is therefore not at all a matter of this change and the additions that you are proposing right now, but we believe that they will also be of benefit, but the fundamental problem is the constant increase in overall unemployment. We're talking about a law on encouraging employment, and all the time we're facing a monster that rules the Republic of Croatia, and that's that we have today as well 324230 unemployed, that we have over 13,000 newly unemployed, that we have inflation that reaches and knocks down all the records, that we have a GDP drop that exceeds those promises and predictions that the first vice president of the Republic of Croatia has been saying in April this year, that we have a situation that is really like a fire in the Republic of Croatia, and we have these kind of measures that are to be welcomed, but they're like shutting down a catastrophic fire with syringes for injection. Therefore, none of you expect solutions overnight, but in this year's time, it'll be one year in a month, a month and a half, in this year except for these incentive employment measures, for volunteering, for setting up an internship without a working relationship, again I'm saying hello, there's none of what you promised in Plan 21. And I will remind you that you are also in the programming frameworks, it is very interesting to read this Plan 21 continuously and see how there is absolutely nothing in this Plan 21 in any chapter. You said that instead of opposition criticism, we have solutions for new employment and economic growth in a fairer society. We will increase the potential for new investments, increase the level of self-financing of businesses in order to avoid new financial costs, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18188	Thank you, dear colleague Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18189	What we get out of all this is what we witness, unfortunately, every day.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18190	Thank you. Replication response, Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18191	I'll do it a hundred times, so if I have to, I'll do it again. Therefore, active employment policy measures are not measures that create jobs. They are not fire-fighting measures, so they are measures that are complementary to all other measures aimed at reducing unemployment. Therefore, comparison with fire and syringe does not come because it has nothing to do with each other. So the fire is being extinguished by Canadians and firefighters, and these are measures and logistics that allow you to have firefighters to put out that fire. So, in that case, if we're going to speak figuratively. And on the other hand this year, we've hired 11% more people through the Employment Service. However, it was not enough for us to compensate for the inflow of people into the office who lost jobs by closing, but this is not the result of work in 9 months, but this is the result of the long-term recession in which Croatia is there. So what the government is doing is the government is working to open investments, and that's obvious that you can't and clearly can't do it in nine months because it's a long-term process, especially when you know that when you started that investment, it wasn't even there. And it's clear that expectations are high, that when you've been in recession for many years to wait for a change of government and that now all of a sudden there's going to be a magic wand or that here we are already asleep we're going to wake up tomorrow and everything is gone. Unfortunately, gentlemen don't go, there's no magic wand just work, work, work and investment, investment, investment.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18192	And the last replica, colleague Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18193	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, I'm replicating you for the reason I want to say that the measure he used... She's welcome. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It helped at a certain point, however, it was indeed a drop in the sea of what the company is doing to survive on the shipbuilding market in Croatia. Shipbuilding in Europe is in big trouble, so you can think that it is with all these problems in Croatia. It is good and as you know it is proposed by the HDZ government within the framework of the economic recovery programme. The programme of economic recovery is to date, unfortunately, the only excessive document that systematically considered the overall economic development of the Republic of Croatia and even the first vice-president of your government when he came to the Ministry of Economy at his college said let's continue with this programme because it is a good programme that can get Croatia out of the crisis. Unfortunately, the government does not implement the programme, although in many ways it deviates from it and acts the opposite. If the programme continued in the part relating to economic recovery, if it had continued with the projects spoken in health and social reforms, the state administration would have had a greater impact then. This way, if policy is based on these measures that are not enough, counterpart Buric says that this is practically the end of large fires with syringes, it is not enough. They are welcome, they are desirable, they need to be continued, but the government needs to turn to investment, encourage production, not reduce consumption. That's it, that's the way to get out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18194	Thank you. And a reply to the replica by Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18195	Again, the fire is extinguished by canaders and firefighters, and this measure serves to have firefighters. And that's what these measures are for. And when we talk about whether this helped that company or not when you're driving a car on long tracks if you're on the reserve you don't have a gas station then that canister of gas, those 3 liters or 5 liters in the trunk allows you to get to the gas station and get fuel. That's what made it possible for this company. Therefore, it was not a drop, but it was important for the company to survive and continue to work. So it's that gas can in the trunk that saves your life and allows you to move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18196	Thank you. Next on behalf of the Croatian Retired Party Club, colleague Zeljko Shemper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18197	Thank you, Madam Vice President, dear ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The Employment Encouragement Act was passed in May of this year. The main interests of the citizens have been instigated by professional training for work without a working relationship, and by pensioners of the provision on the possibility of seasonal employment in agriculture. Now, after the end of the season, it also shows data on the sale of around 170 thousand coupons and incomes of about 3.5 million kuna for seasonal agricultural work. In communication with pensioners, these measures are well-accepted for the time being as small-scale measures, but which are joyful and can also be applied in other activities. The commitment is to monitor the effects of this law and the problems of law enforcement, communication with interested citizens is indeed something new and positive that should certainly be commended. Retired people have worked as seasons before, but illegally and in fear of sanctions from labour inspectors, and employers even more. There are other opportunities to hire pensioners, of course, those who want and can because they have knowledge and a lot of experience. Of course, the first concern of the state is the employment of young people who make up an army of 100,000 under the age of 29. Certainly, most of the issues and interests caused the possibility of professional training because after completing the study, the lack of work experience is not interesting for the employer. In addition to the study, a lot of them perform internships in the lower complexity of their pension insurance as well as women based on birth and parental leave rights. These persons are directly disabled in the use of technical training measures, thereby not using the potential of highly educated staff and focusing on tasks of lower complexity. These amendments to the law correct this injustice. With the employment of young unemployed people, one of the priorities is to combat the grey economy effectively, which is equally a difficult problem. For example, the employer reports a worker on the lowest basis, half the salary comes to the current account, half the salary below the table. The worker is satisfied with what he does and receives the salary and does not think that he will pay the bill when he retires because there are no contributions paid on this part of the salary below the table. If he reports to the employer, he knows he'll be out of a job, so he gets a work library, and he's a loser, and he's a state worker because he's out of taxes and contributions. The employer normally rubs his hands because he cheated on the state and can buy a better car brand. The measures so far, with regard to curbing the grey economy, are still making assumptions for legalising the works of the labour market and for the various forms of traineeship to be paid. It takes a lot more to effectively curb the grey economy, especially in the work cycle and the powers of labour inspection. In addition to the content of this bill, it would be better in a similar way to regulate temporary and occasional jobs in other activities of almost seasonal character, such as construction. It would be preferable in an even better way to regulate the work of pensioners without interrupting pension payments. It may also be necessary to mitigate the criteria for organising public works or to allow public works and people who are less than 3 years on the stock market or to allow the establishment of mixed groups to perform public works. And finally, an idea that seems very interesting to me, which is applied in some countries, which is the parallel work of workers before retirement and young people from the stock market in a reduced working time ratio of 50 to 50, or 4 hours each. Of course, with the encouragement of the employer's state, this one doesn't chase an early retirement worker. The worker would not be shocked at losing his job and going to early retirement, conveying his rich experience as a mentor to a young person who lacks the experience. What would be the consequences? One pensioner less on the burdens of the pension fund, one unemployed less on the stock market and one more in the labour world. And repairing the proportions of employees and pensioners. I think it's worth thinking about. Finally, HSU will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18198	Thank you, fellow Schamper. Next on behalf of the Croatian Labour Party Club, a colleague, Zlatko Tušak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18199	Dear Vice-Presidents of the Croatian Parliament, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I will begin my debate with what you ministers said, that every law is a living organism and that every one is subject to certain changes and in that part I agree with you. I only disagree with you that every law should be amended after 5 months, complemented, especially if it is adopted by an emergency procedure. This law was passed in May by an emergency procedure and clearly we are already, here after 5 months, making certain changes to that law. Croatian Labourists clearly warn that certain laws should be adopted in a regular procedure in any case, and only where it is extremely necessary and where it is very important that the laws are passed by emergency procedure. Now, the passing of these laws is also a matter of certain mistakes that you yourself have said and admitted that certain mistakes have been subdued in this law. And they are listed in Article 3 and Article 4 where certain changes in words occurred and likely that the law was in regular procedure. And the regular procedure doesn't have to know how long it would take, but it would be plenty of time for certain things to be corrected in the law itself, but also for certain things to be fixed when it comes to this one, in a way better solution that you say about hiring young people without internships. And clearly, in that part, this correction is better in any case, and with that part, it is more just when it comes to young people who need to get to the internship in a way that they have cut that deadline. That they could be at the employment office for up to 30 days and possibly be tied to the internship, to be exclusively in the profession, and not on those other jobs where they either eventually acquired an internship in a significantly larger amount than it was a year ago. The law itself, you have presented certain indicators here in these five months and when we say that he has given certain effects. I must say, it's not those effects that were expected primarily when we talk about seasonal work. There are around 170 thousand 550 coupons, counting that it's somewhere around 3 million kunas of financial effect achieved. It is not a great financial effect, but in any case, and when it was the law at the debate, we supported it by Croatian Labourists. Active employment policy measures can be ideal, they can be the best, but if people have nowhere to work, if there is no job creation, then it is clear that this active employment policy will also not give effect. Today, we have 324 thousand unemployed registered at the Employment Office, and each day one factory of 500 workers applies to the Employment Office. That means we lose one factory of 500 employees every day. In data at the 9th month of 32 thousand 700 people who entered the records 21 thousand are from a working relationship, so these are persons who have lost their jobs due to the declaration of surplus, which is due to bankruptcy, which is due to liquidation. That's the question when we're talking about the situation where we're in, and we can clearly get here on the left and on the right in some way and talk about who's responsible for this situation, but in some ways when we talk about certain investments then you act in some way inconclusive because you said first that certain investments would be launched that should be clearly provided and new employment early in the summer. So they are told will start in the autumn, and then it is said next year will be launched and now the latest information is being spoken about not even the beginning of next year but the entry of Croatia into the EU. I am afraid that even with Croatia's entry into the EU, we will again find some excuse for something not to launch investments, and clearly without investments there is no new employment or new jobs. What we warned about was us and I have to say today is the question of the price that workers of 1,000 kunas work for when they intern, that it's the price that in some way degrades these young people, and on the other hand the price of work, and the collapse of the very labour prices and those people who are in a working relationship, leads to such a situation that we have less payments to the funds, that we have less tax payments, that we have less purchasing power of citizens, and then it is clearly reflected all together in the market where in some way and traffic has fallen when we also talk about VAT effects that should be poured into the budget. Clearly what concerns us and this is the 5% inflation rate issue and the lower labour price, our diet has been raised by 6%, meat has collected 6.9%, fruit 18.2%, electricity 22%, vegetables 25%, gas 30%, and that's our daily income, and on the other hand we have a fall in wages where people are increasingly difficult to live and these 324 thousand at the Employment Office simply have no chance of getting to some new job food with that data and somewhere around 140 thousand are long-term unemployed who are at the Employment Office. And what I would like to warn you now, and what is the remark of the Croatian Labour Labour Party regarding this law, I do not know, and I trust the Ministers that you will answer me. The article 1 is also about the occasional seasonal affairs of agriculture, and some new jobs have been put in there. I'm interested in whether the seasonal jobs in agriculture are saving the herd and in which the season is kept only the herd, because I think that keeping the herd is all year round and not just seasonal jobs. That's where the collecting and sorting eggs were put. Does this mean that Coca, Gala, they will no longer hire or declare a part of their workers extra, and on this basis they will hire certain workers, which in any case will make their workforce cheaper and then we repeat ourselves whether these workers working there today will be found at the Employment Office and again talk about some devastating figures. Next, we're talking about fishing. And we introduced fish and other aquatic organisms in the fishing industry. I'll just say for example one company from Bjelovarska-Bilogorska County from which I come, which is the Irida Factory in Daruvar. Irida is owned by Ledo, Ledo is located in a concert of Agrocora and I'll tell you because I have information about it. Of the 60 workers working indefinitely at the company, between 120 and 130 workers were employed and received for a certain time, with some workers working at that particular time for up to 7 years until there was a change of the Labour Act in a way that allowed them to be given other contracts with another job title and then there was no provision of three years that they could work in such companies. After the amendment of the Labour Act, where the worker was said to have been able to work for more than 3 years, then the employer came up with a plan, so he could no longer make long-term work contracts for a certain period of time than then contracted with the agency for occasional employment, and the workers worked for up to a year, and then signed contracts with the new agency and then they extended and re-played certain laws. We're putting into this law today in a way where I tried to paint how it was manipulated by workers, not to say the conditions that are in that production in cold conditions, in wet and where most work when it comes to this part of fishing women's labour. And I'm wondering, and I'd also like the answer inside of it, who is then eligible, if in this case you're eligible for capital, and by what I've tried and explained in some way, it's clear from that that's fair to the capital, and I'm asking myself a certain question, if you're a Social Democratic Party how can you in such a way and in some way put certain provisions into a law that will have any consequences on the issue of workers working in those activities, and primarily knowing that these are not activities of seasonal character, but you've put them into the law. I don't know why or if someone practically set you up with the Minister in a way that suits certain employers and large capital. I think you should get it out of the law, if not then we're asking for an explanation, maybe I was wrong, but then in that part, there should be some clear clarifications because I'm afraid that in this law alone, these things can be very dangerous because I tried to paint you a way and show you an example of how employers play certain legal rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18200	Thank you. I shall inform you that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). Rules of Procedure, timed out to report a ten-minute hearing at 11.13 p.m. Replica has a colleague, Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18201	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'd like to replicate my dear colleague Tušak to the part where he talked about 500 unemployed people a day. Last Wednesday 10.10.2012, the number of unemployed was 316385, and then we discussed the law on employment mediation and rights during unemployment. Today is 18.10., the number of unemployed is 324704, the difference in 8 days is 8319, on average 1040 people are daily at the Employment Office of the newly reported. Just so we don't tell the wrong information. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18202	Replication response, colleague Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18203	Thank you, Mr. Fighter, for correcting me. I didn't have this latest data, and clearly, it's in the context of what I was talking about, that we definitely need to have any active employment policy, but without opening and preserving existing jobs, we won't be helped by any active employment policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18204	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, Minister Miranda Mrsic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18205	Dear Madam Vice President. So when you read the law then you have to read it as it says, not look for hidden motives, exploiting large capital. You remember when you accused that the law would give young people great concerts, that great concerts would take young people from the Employment Service where they would then lay policies etc., etc. So none of that happened, it didn't drop the labour price, as you know the labour price didn't fall, the labour price in Croatia is what it is, it has nothing to do with this measure itself, it's a question of the relationship in the market of supply and demand, and therefore that fear is obviously not anymore. On the other hand, when we set out to this extent, then there was a clear cry from one side and on the other, but in any case, that measure came upon a very good reception among young people and the original skeptic that we were not, that young people would not accept it, some did not, this is a voluntary measure, the one who wants to accept it, the one who won't. And just to show that we're on the right track is the recent decision of the European Commission somewhere in June this year that followed that same lead as we did. So the European Commission has advised members, i.e. companies to hire young people, they call it volunteering because they are hiring without establishing a working relationship as we are, and there is that fee, so these 1600 kunas are not salaries or ever called as wages but compensation for all those costs that young people have to go to work and work for that year. We have 1600 kunas, in Europe there are 400 euros. Therefore, the EU has set off exactly the same and plans to move somewhere between 200 and 500 thousand people in Europe this year and next. The EU has therefore recognised this as being recognized and recognised the way it should be done. As far as Article 1 is concerned, farmers are themselves, but not concerted, not AGROKOR, not LEDO, when we talk about fishing, so fishing refers to processing in those cases where it is a fisherman and a processor. So if you have your own carriage, if you're processing, if you're a small entrepreneur, then if you're the owner, then you have the right to use this measure. So, the vouchers. As far as the explanations are concerned, so changing and all that is agreed with farmers and the Agricultural Chamber and this is the result of a series of meetings with farmers on how to best use vouchers to raise the black market or the gray market and to make it clear. Keeping the herd that, because it's clear that in some period you don't have such a large herd that you can have one permanent employee, but you also have a period when you need to hire someone in those seasonal jobs, especially at times when you obviously need to, and on the other hand you can work to this extent for only 90 days. Therefore, there is no possibility of being employed over a voucher for more than 90 days. So this is all in line with the Ministry of Agriculture and with the agricultural chambers, with farmers, so there's no fear that anything will happen to the vouchers now we'll hire people in LEDO, AGROKOR, and when you look at who used all the vouchers then you'll see that most of them are small companies, OPGs and that all somewhere around 12% of these 270 thousand vouchers are companies that employ more workers who usually employ and seasonal. The Vouchers are well-accepted, it's something here now proposed to expand to some other activities that will need to be considered, but in any case with this very simple way we've hired somewhere over 60 thousand people at this point, but again to point out those 60 thousand people we haven't said here now for 60 grand we have less unemployment because they're still unemployed except for those 90 days that worked in agriculture. Therefore, there is no fear like there was no fear for this measure of work without a working relationship.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18206	Thank you very much, Minister. We have several replicas on this exhibit. The first one was answered by the esteemed Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18207	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Ministers, you have begun your debate with the sentence "You should read as it says." When they were a few months ago the first changes to this law, then we read as it says, and we warned you, if you had listened then, as we say today, we wouldn't be discussing this law. The fact is, and basically now you're including exactly what you're suggesting on this side, but unfortunately you're proving muscle strength that you're the only one who's right and it's only your opinion that's right. I think it's totally wrong and that we should approach the whole thing, there's no need for any emergency procedures. As you said yourself, something takes years to correct overnight, so you don't even have to go overnight with some moves that eventually prove wrong or not correct enough. You mention the example from the EU as something positive, based on this example is yours. I don't think anything that comes from the EU is always good and right, and some of these things remind me I won't say much about slave companies, but definitely the exploitation of labour. For that, it is not necessary to take the most drastic example of Greece, but the same things happen in other countries, and I think that, let's say Spain, I think, is proof that not all the solutions that we get, which we don't get, we take them from the West are not always the most lifesaving or the smartest, and far from being the most honest for people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18208	Minister Miranda Mrsic answers on the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18209	You can't say that a measure of work without a working relationship is not successful. This tells us the number of young people who have become involved in this measure and the pressure we have had to change things. So tell these young people that we don't need to change the law now and that we can wait a year until conditions are met, so if we talk about muscle training, then we could say that we're not going to change the law, but we're going to stick to it like this. When we passed the law, we said that the law would be followed in application and that we would change the law when we thought we should change it without waiting for some period of its application and we are doing so right now. This is what we do for all those young people, for the thousands of e-mails we've received, phone questions about where they said gentlemen, we've been studying, we've been working, we've got this year's work experience why can't we use the measure as well as others? Why 90 days? Why not? Therefore, if you pass the law, then you follow the law and you change things in the application of the law. It's not carved into stone, it can change and it'll change. And as for the EU, I am not so sure that this measure now proposed by the EU and which is now spreading across Europe is bad. I think it's very good and will allow a lot of young people to find their jobs in companies. And just to mention one more thing that's common in Europe, which is that by finishing college you're leaving yourself, and that was at one time with us, that people were leaving alone, offering themselves to companies, law offices, we're gonna be at your place for a year, I'm not gonna make any compensation just give me a test, if I'm good at hiring me. That's what Europe recognized, and we recognize, we give 1600 kunas, I hope we can do more, Europe gives 400 euros, and I don't think there's any doubt that this is a good measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18210	The replica also brings up the respected representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18211	Thank you very much. Ministers when you were talking about young people, then at the employment office there are 61 066 young people, which is 20%, up to 24, which is 20% of all unemployed at the employment office. Of them 34 300 are without work experience. About these young people, when you ask them, and when you talk to them, and when you ask them if they see the perspective that they have in Croatia, no, they don't see the perspective in Croatia and they'd rather go to work, if they have conditions outside of Croatia. Which I think is disastrous, if they have been educated here in Croatia, if in some way that part of the funding for their education has been provided by this country, so that they do not see their perspective in Croatia. And another thing, when you're talking about saving the herd. You have now said yourself that the part where you can use a work contract for a certain time, it will not be used for a certain time because it is a period, but rather we will do it with vouchers, so we have no more worries and we do not have to take care of it, or it is simpler and easier. He'll buy some coupons and stick them in books. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18212	And this replica is being gossiped by the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18213	We don't understand the voucher institute, we just don't understand it obviously. Vouchers are no substitute for working for a certain time. Working for a certain time, that means that you work for 6 months, a year, 2 years, 3 years on agriculture you can work 90 days or more. So three months in a piece, in breaks. Therefore, it's a restriction. You have a state inspectorate who's very rigorously controlling it. Therefore, it is neither replacement nor replacement for a given period of time. And when we talk about young people, then you need to see our statistics, so Europe said they're young to 24 years old. However, in negotiations and talks with Europe, we said that our young people are starting to study later than Europe is, rather than the European average, and that we are counting our young people up to 29 years, and that is then the 100 thousand, 107 or something more. And 70,000 of them don't have a day's work experience, and the biggest problem we have, which we're going to solve next year, are high school students. High school kids have no interest. If you don't go to college after high school or some professional study you have no interest in and there's nothing you can do about that school you've finished. One of our directions to active policy measures and employment is to give those high schoolers who have the largest majority and who are very difficult to employ at that age of 18 to 29, to give them an interest and try to hire them. So we also think about subgroups, as well as about the youth group itself.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18214	Third replica, the respected representative of Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18215	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. Well, I have to correct you. Therefore, the cost of working in Croatia falls, but what is even more dangerous, which is that the purchasing power of the population is being destroyed. And not only as a result of the growth of the unemployed, but as a result of price increases, and inflation has reached and exceeded 5%, and I don't need to explain it all, it leads to further collapse of the entire economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18216	Fourth replica, distinguished representative Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18217	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister said that the reaction of young people in Croatia was extremely good at these incentives that come down to people working for 1600 kunas without establishing a working relationship. If the reaction is good, it just tells me that we've come to a line of despair and that these young people don't know what they're going to do with themselves anymore, they're desperate, they don't find their place in society. Not only do they have nothing to live on, but they don't see their place in society. So give me a place of whatever, just enough to have the illusion that I'm doing something constructive. Another reaction of young people is the move to leave Croatia. It would be interesting to see which of these reactions has achieved better results. Whether there are more members of the movement we leave Croatia or more of those who have volunteered for the internship. I think we'd be disappointed to compare those figures. You say Europe is going in the same direction, and the European Commission is proposing that, perhaps. Which just means that the level of despair has been reached in Europe, so it's not good for them today, it's desperate for us, but it's not good for them either. And such reactions and such moves in Europe and in us are just moves that try to get in the wrong system, in a bad system of liberal capitalism that shouts man to the extreme limits of endurance, trying to fix something, both here and there. They don't make it, and they'll never make it. What started badly will end badly.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18218	Minister Mrsic will respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18219	I wouldn't dare interpret the opinions and thinking of young people. What I've been talking about is based on 1500 e-mails that we've received over the past three months of young people who said we want to take that measure, we want to run, we want to have that year's work experience. Because without that year's work experience, we can't run for a job and we're automatically disabled, and we're automatically in an unequal position with those who have that year's work experience, and that year's work experience can't get anywhere. We can wait for a traineeship to open up and run there. Therefore, it is that chance that the state offers to young people at a time of crisis. And I would not say that if you look at the EU measure on the EU commission site, you will see a decision to go to that end. It's not a desperate measure, it's a measure that, at a time of crisis, is trying to solve things. If you think that this measure is not European or ours, suggest a better one, we will gladly, give the amendment, we will gladly accept an amendment that is better than this measure that is now.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18220	Thank you very much. Before we continue the debate, one notice. We're going quite slowly, there's a lot of replicas, a lot of responses to the replica we're going to have to work without a break today to eventually finish what we planned for today. So the breaks won't happen so the MPs can go to lunch individually when they're hungry. We're continuing the club debate. In the name of the HDZ Club, a respected representative, Đuro Popiac, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18221	Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. As Mr. Minister's song, "It's a waste of your effort to the players." We've been listening to your exposés for half an hour about the heavenly successes of your labour market measures, after a few dozen of your subsequent reports, we've been listening to numbers that are tens of percent better than last year's, but unfortunately enough to say and look at just one number and ask one question of what are you doing in government and what are you serving? The number of registered unemployed persons at the Croatian Employment Service on yesterday was 324 thousand 230. The number of unemployed in a week has increased by 8 grand. More than thousands of people in the Republic of Croatia lose their jobs a day. What irony to face with this tragic situation on the labour market today must we discuss the law on amendments and additions to the Employment Encouragement Act and actually listen to the self-thanks about the measures and successes of your ministry and you personally. There is an impression that you are trying to compete with numbers from the past, but the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will finally win themselves. If you continue this way, you will transfer the number of unemployed from the record year 2002, which amounted to more than 400 thousand, and by this you will really be recordrs. This law was passed in May this year with a big pomp and media spectacle that should convince us that this law will be crucial in solving the problem of growing unemployment in Croatia. From your materials you can see that 2 thousand 930 people are involved through a measure of professional training without establishing a working relationship. The minister assured us that this measure would cover at least 10,000 young people and that that is exactly what the businessmen expect. And they're now admitting that nothing actually happened in this sector. Unfortunately, this information on the number of persons involved in training only indicates that this measure has been missed. If you hadn't pushed those 3,000 people into the public sector, the measure would have had a complete fiasco. And when we passed this law in May, we warned you that there was an illogicality, some MPs were already mentioning it, you disobeyed us, and now you're changing that very thing. Typical method of trial and error. Therefore, it should not be surprising that laws do not bring any effect, change several months after adoption and become themselves the purpose or purpose of promotion of ministers, ministries and governments. You get the impression you're doing something all the time. The reason that our businessmen remained completely uninterested in this measure is actually simple. But at the stage of the adoption of this law, you have expressed a number of doubts and threats to the abuse of this law, not only you but the entire left hand side, by entrepreneurs, you have shown a terrible concern that Croatian entrepreneurs will use these people who will be in the professional training program and you were afraid that someone will not let God have to cook coffee or photocopy some papers with evil entrepreneurs. With such a demeaning of Croatian entrepreneurs, the result could not have been different. With these changes that you are proposing, you will extend the range of possible candidates to consume this measure, you will certainly succeed in dragging them through the public sector and administration, but unfortunately these people will still be denied the opportunity to gain experience in the real sector because nothing has changed and you have not motivated any further businessmen to take these people into their businesses. I hope when you realize that you will not go again in three months to change and complement the method of trying and failing but that you will find the right way to help entrepreneurs who want and can hire young and educational people in their businesses. Here, as a suggestion, I suggest that, through a well-known classical traineeship institute, you reduce the cost of trainee employment, subsidize part of the salary, and thus show that you really want to contribute seriously to the promotion of employment. As for the second part of the amendments to this law, and it is related to the work of seasons in agriculture, there seems to be a method of trying and missing. It is stated in the assessment of the state of this law that 170 thousand 551 coupons per 20 kuna and 9 June were sold, today you said it was at the level of 270 thousand, so in three months you sold 170 thousand, in a month 100 thousand. Okay, it probably is. But what that practically means is how many people were involved in the season's work. The law is in effect for four and a half months. Let's say three intense months so far working in agriculture, so these intense seasonal works. So it's been sold 270 thousand men of work days, that's what they say. To simplify, we say that there were about 100 seasons in this period. So it turns out that 2700 people were involved each month. You mentioned that you issued 57,000 books to me, that you included 57,000 people in this measure, that is, if it was included, they would probably sell for 100 working days in agriculture over 5 million vouchers. This could be considered the result of these measures. And instead of what, five million kunas in the state budget, it's so incased over 100 million kunas, but something happened. In Croatia there are about 60,000 hectares of vineyards and about 60,000 hectares of orchards. Gentlemen of the government, who picked up those vineyards and orchards. Can you really convince someone that 2700 people per month involved in seasonal work in this way and 5 million kunas paid into the budget have solved the issue of black work in the agricultural season. Obviously, you have seen for yourself that something is wrong, so there are obviously too many blood relatives in the flat line, blood relatives in the side line, relatives in the armpit of friends, neighbors and godmothers, or how you don't define them in this proposal of yours. You're aware you have to change something, obviously you're trying something, so if it's no good, here we are again in three months and over again. You're already announcing that. To be perfectly clear, this idea measure was good and we supported it, but obviously something happened today, rather than having a correct analysis, which is caused by the poor use of this possibility and that we have a proposal for a change that would make it more attractive to use this measure, we actually get cosmetic changes. But it will also be interesting to apply these new provisions. Does this change mean that all members of the family of employers of a natural person will always carry with them when they work on somewhere, in the country of agriculture in the field all the necessary documentation to prove, let's say, I quote from the law: that the offspring, the spouse, the blood relative in the side line. Or to prove it, for example. to help someone read a vineyard to a friend. I'm very interested in what the inspectors of the state's inspection think about this. We can't really get rid of the impression of so pure cosmetics, and unfortunately here I have to say that these changes to the law, although here and there are certain improvements and changes, we won't be in front of the HDZ Club in a position to support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18222	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. First distinguished representative Srdjan Gjurkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18223	A respected colleague said that 3,000 employees have missed a measure of professional training with work. I mean, I don't even understand what that means, what it's supposed to mean is it's not missed, it's maybe 2,000. Each measure that enables and one training is a good measure. And as he explains, among other things he says there are 8,000 new employees, but he forgets one fact, that in more than 70,000 companies that we inherited, which work in the economy, there are more than 70,000 employees who don't get paid because they've been blocked for 365 days. So does he also expect that he expects the matter to be resolved, so unfortunately part of the people comes to the stock market because those 70,000 that don't receive wages are basically unemployed, registered or not. And what about hiring in the economy? Well, of course, when the insolvency and insolvency are present through other measures and laws that have come into this House are part of the measures that will ensure, empower the economy to apply these measures. Therefore, I do not understand the missing 3,000, and I do not think that the 3,000 and those who will succeed in this law will be able to get a job, or gain professional training will certainly not be considered to be a failure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18224	The replica corresponds to representative Đuro Popič.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18225	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, the fact that most of those 3,000 actually entered the public sector was missed, practically the same as it was with the previous measure. And I said that the private sector, the real sector, is unfortunately not interested in it at all. Second, when you said about the number of people who don't get paid. One analysis we worked together with trade unions and trade unions in mid-2011 found unquestionably that somewhere between 15 and 16 thousand people work in companies in Croatia and that they do not get paid on a regular basis. I'm truly sorry to congratulate you on your infamous success that out of those 17,000 you've come to the 80,000 that you're now claiming you're not getting paid. How on earth did you do that? So you succeeded in your completely missed economic policies, burdening the economy and bankruptcy, which confirms Gredel as a famous example of how you will actually solve problems in the Croatian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18226	Second replica, dear dear Zgrebec, vice president of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18227	Thank you, Vice President, I very much appreciate every entrepreneur who hires and one person, which contributes to the development of both his company and his family and the entire community. And you're talking here like you weren't the minister who was just covering this segment of work, or you're giving up information about how busy or unemployed he is. I've worked in the economy for a long time, and I know how to deal with business. In this year, you're doing business for next year and if you don't have enough contracts for next year in the following year, you don't have jobs. Our entrepreneurs have come a huge way over the past 20 years, since the privatisation of social enterprises, wars, transitions, five years working in a crisis and having production where professional personnel are needed, they will for months, so if they have to keep their jobs for years just because they can't find such people on the street or at the institution itself and try as long as they can to maintain the level of employment. In moments after five years if they can't get out of the crisis at some point they've come to the stage that they have to fire some of the people. So, if you're saying that in nine months or a year, there's been a crisis all of a sudden, and suddenly there's this number of unemployed, you're wrong. Some may have been able to fire people last year, so they kept the level of employment thinking that something was going to happen. And as for agriculture, in agriculture only spring crops and autumn harvests actually hire occasional jobs or seasonal jobs, not all year long.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18228	Replication response, colleague Đuro Popioč.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18229	Thank you very much. I don't want to, of course, take the right to say that I was both the perfect minister and the best in the world, or here's nothing like that. But the fact is, I've covered three ministries here compared to this government. But the fact is, at this time, we've had 20 grand less unemployment. The fact that last year we had a GDP growth, a small one that you of course thought was disastrously bad and the fact is that despite this division of this portfolio and a bunch of ministers, you have a GDP decline of over 2%. These are the results of this government. Neither did I at that time pronounce anyone from the past nor talked about what I inherited but tried to work together with other colleagues who worked hard and hard in the ministry to improve the current situation. And we did it. But how on earth did you make it worse? How come the whole government and these three ministers that are covering this resort can't at least keep that condition that we left in the last year? That's the result of your unfortunately entire economic policy that you've been leading in the last nine months.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18230	Next replica, distinguished representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18231	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, you said in your presentation that this law, and the ministry did nothing to motivate entrepreneurs to hire young people. That's right. But you know what they're doing now? They are now tasking employment agencies to eventually find 5 to 6 companies that will receive young people in order to get them at a price in the realisation and success of the implementation of this law. But what are you going to do in cities against Kutina, Sisak, which have state-owned companies that mostly live on state-owned enterprises, cities where young people have no job? Here yesterday we had a group of young people who finish high school in Sisak who are the most concerned in their entire lives where and how will they work? Who every single person in the conversation said they just had to go outside. So what you said and suggested that concrete measures should be given to businesses to hire these are good measures, but they last a year. And then again there's a young man at the Employment Service. And you know where the most employees are now, according to this 1600 kuna principle? In local government and self-government units. Where people can take them. Some don't even have a place to sit, but here they come to do part of their internship.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18232	Replication response, Đuro the Drinker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18233	Well, here we are, and we want to say that this measure was mostly consumed by the public sector and that these young people have entered the public sector of corporate administration and public administration and have nevertheless gained certain experience and knowledge, and I believe that this will continue to be so. But I'm talking about what's actually going on with the real sector. This cannot in any way compensate, of course, for all that has been wrongly done to harm the Croatian economy, to the detriment of investment. So here's how we're going to expect these people who are going through these education cycles or those few months or a year that are in that system when we have 4 times less foreign investment this year, so 150 million euros for the first 6 months than last year. So what's it gonna do to open new jobs? And the question of how and why is it reopened? Let's not fall into a trap that's just because there's no big privatisation or sale. Last year there were no privatisations, there were no sales and there were, however, not so great but a lot bigger and a billion euros of foreign investment. And it actually contributed much better to the labour market than is unfortunately today.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18234	And the last replica, respected representative Ivanka Roksandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18235	I'm sorry, I just had a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18236	Excuse me. Mr. Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18237	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In your presentation, you presented the need for the Government to try to take one step in the first row towards the real sector and the obvious measures to encourage employment that some small success has won, it has been obtained in the public sector. But I would like to say that it would be good, as one of the measures to help the unemployed and to reduce the cost of applying to the tender for employment. In fact, I read in the press these days, the father of a young professor says his son appeared in 70 competitions in primary and secondary schools throughout Croatia and spent 15 600 kuna on these 70 competitions. And these costs relate to the certificate of the diploma, the certificate of the housekeeper, the certificate of impunity and the confirmation of the certificate of the professional examination. So somewhere around 220 kuna per contest. And the epilogue of those 70 applications was that no one even invited him to talk. So it was good, it would be good, though, I have to say that there are both high and elementary schools that allow online applications to be applied to the competition, so there are significantly lower costs. But here's one of the concrete proposals to help young unemployed people who have no money, who are at the employment office, and in order to report to the competition, they have to single out about 220 kunas, and in the end nobody calls them to talk. Well, here's what would be good is that one concrete measure to release the costs of those young people who appear in these competitions.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18238	Thank you. Minister Mrsic again answered the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18239	Mr. Vice President, it is brave to call the measure a failure, and you were the minister who carried it out. Let's go numbers, 01.01., 30.09.2011. professional training for work without establishing a working relationship 3104 new requirements. 01.01., 30.09.2012. 3340. Education of the unemployed, 9 months last year 7299, education of the unemployed this year in 1949. Why didn't you, why did you have 20 grand less unemployed, because 15 grand was in your education, and then it was wiped out, we don't wipe out. These 1949s are still on unemployment records and they are still unemployed. Therefore, one measure that was good was the obvious exploitation of the number of unemployed in a certain way disguised. And on the other hand, when the number of unemployed was published at the end of the month, it was expected as it was going to happen. We said we wouldn't, that the number was spinning and that the number was always visible. But all the time you forget another number that you're hiding now or you don't want to tell it, which we also said to show, which is the number of new employees at the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute. So if you look over there, let's do the numbers again in 9 months last year is 136 936, in 9 months this year 152 332. When we talk about the number of people who come to the office a day, let's say how many people leave the office a day, it goes between 1300 and 1400. The number of employees in the 9th month was 41 300. Let's talk about one and the other figures, I'm not saying that the problem of the unemployed is not a problem, it's a big problem, Croatia has had it for years, it's been there since 2000, except for one time when the situation was good, and then we had one significant decline of the unemployed because we were doing well at the time. But even then, we should have started structural reforms and then we could have made things better and easier to cope with the crisis. As far as the interns are concerned, it's possible to hire an intern, not a problem. And we co-finance, and you know that as well as I do, is the measure the same in your time and in my time, to co-finance 50% of gross wages if you hire an intern. And why aren't the trainees opening up? Because there's no job, they don't have entrepreneurs for the 50% they have to give. And that's why we're taking this measure of work without starting a working relationship. When the situation is better and the economy recovers, when jobs start to open, I hope that we will reduce this measure to the most necessary measure. When we passed the law then you yourself said that the vouchers were a good move, now you're bending the truth. I don't know why, because it's been welcomed, ask people in Ilock, ask people in Neretva, ask people in Istria, ask those in agriculture, and you'll see that the vouchers are well received. 60,000 books have been sold, so 60,000 people work, I don't know how you put out data 2, but good math everything, math takes it all. I hope that, as far as I know, you have some kind of economy, so I hope you've taken advantage of this, you probably have. Well then you had your own experience that you could do it and that it was very simple. Therefore, a measure that is very simple, very effective will continue to develop, and what we have now changed is precisely on the proposal of farmers and owners of economies as you do. As far as neighboring assistance is concerned, it is limited only to natural persons. So you don't have neighborhood assistance in the O.P.G., you don't have any in companies, so neighborhood assistance is just for natural persons. And we wanted that part of agriculture, so that part of farm work to show that it exists, but we clearly wanted people to say, if you have neighbors, if you have friends, I hope you'll have help picking up. And we solved that, we didn't say anything, we didn't say anything else here, but what the law says about preventing illegal competition. So that's what it says, it says the same thing there, people don't read each other's laws, so we put it there. And as for the changes themselves, they are absolutely in line with farmers, ask those who have, pick the Mandarins now, who pick grapes, apples. At the end of the year we will be aware of the accounts and at the end of the year we will know exactly because all those who worked 90 days on agriculture can apply to the Pension Insurance Office and apply for an internship based on it. What we're forgetting is that we've given one possibility to late-aged pensioners who worked on black when the inspectorate came running across fields, fences, hiding, and now normally and legally working, and that's something that I'm absolutely proud of that we can do some things that are simple to solve and that people can no longer hide or fear for their honest work, an honest wage that they do on agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18240	And to this minister's presentation, we have reports of replicas. First of all, the Honorable Djuro Drinker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18241	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, now you and I can make sure that the numbers are endless, whether they're like this or not, unfortunately, it won't help all the unemployed who are watching us. It doesn't matter whether it's 20 or not, it doesn't matter. I'm sorry that you're constantly trying to convince the public that we've been hiding unemployment data, that we've been hairing numbers. That's simply not true, but we're obviously going to be convincing about it for a while, but here you go. The number is 324 thousand registered unemployed, the figure is, of course, more difficult and terrible that people from the real sector are entering the world of the unemployed, what companies are shutting down, what turns off and losing jobs in the economy. Whether we have returned or deceived people from schooling in that number or not, the problem is that the number of people who are unemployed from the real sector is growing. That's the problem. And as much as we're going to outsmart with numbers here, that doesn't matter to them. Everything should seem not to be happening, as a colleague said they were saving jobs. And, of course, once again, I say it's a good measure and it's a good mechanism for vouchers. But I tried to tell you something happened, if you said you shared 60 thousand books that you sold 270 thousand men a day voucher. So divide it so it turns out that each of these works just five days in these three months or four. Well, that's not true. It can't just be. Who picked up those vineyards and orchards? That's what I wanted to tell you. Find the real reasons why it's not more and better and more quality. And I believe that, as you say in communication with peasants, farmers, the O.P.G.s, you'll actually do it in some of the following steps. And I know of course why you've introduced individuals because agriculture is not just about OPGs, businesses, of course, and one large part of the individuals who are doing this economic activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18242	Second replica representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18243	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, here's what I want to replicate to the Honorable Minister for his observations on the figures that are concrete today, and they can really be difficult to question. When you became a minister you in one statement then bombed out like this "many have tried but I will solve unemployment#. After numbers like this and the average that has reached over a thousand people a day, perhaps Mr. Minister is time for a question that should stand or give up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18244	Minister Mrsic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18245	I'm not going to give up, but I'm going to go on and on, because it's time to ask for both decisions and decisions and decisions that can help people make decisions that will allow people to do what they need, and at this point they need to, or at this point, the ability to gain that year's work experience, the ability to work through vouchers, the ability to hire an employer and get incentives to do so, to get a job themselves, and that's the mission we insist on. And on the solution of unemployment, the solution will only be found at the moment when jobs start to open and nobody talks about it clearly and nobody talks about it but to you and us and all of us here that as far as the number of unemployed is concerned, the only real measure is job creation, and the opening of jobs will start at the moment when the economy begins to recover. You have to admit that the economy hasn't stopped now in the past nine months, but it's already 3 or 4 years because we're so in recession and until the environment begins to recover and we're going to have this number of unemployed moving in these numbers that we have now, or we're going to have in the second month of next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18246	We will also hear the replica of the respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18247	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, you said and I want to react to that one more time was a lot of reactions mentioning the fact that you introduced here's a good practice that the number of unemployed is uninterrupted and you criticized the announcement of last government at the end of the month, at the beginning of the month, etc. My opinion is, it's not a problem if the number of unemployed is published every second but either once a month, rather than whether the number of unemployed is growing or falling. Here this morning when I entered the assembly I looked at the data number of unemployed was 324 thousand 704, now just before 324 thousand 990 and I believe by the end of the day will be even bigger. I mention this because the number of unemployed at the moment is as similar as it was in 2003 at the end of the mandate of the then SDP government, however, circumstances were different. Someone here mentioned a deficit, a deficit greater than 5% then, but GDP greater than 5% equally. Sold in that year everything that was sold. I remind you of HT 16% shares, 25% plus 1 INA shares for 505 poor people I'd say million dollars, banks etc., wanted not to count, but the result was the same. And today we find that the number of unemployed is growing, that GDP is falling, that investment is falling, and I would say that the answer to the question is, that is, the answer, and you are looking for the right to do something else. So we can't say that success is there, it's been nine months, all indicators are unfortunately negative. And I repeat, last year, still in two quarters we recorded a slight but still growth and the number of unemployed if nothing else had grown as rapidly during the tourist season as it had happened this year for the first time in history. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18248	We are continuing to discuss the clubs now and the positions of the HDSSB club will be presented by respected representative Igor Češek.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18249	Dear Vice President, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. At first, I have to say that the HDSSB club will support this bill because it's better than nothing. Although this is a weak injection for a very sick patient, at least the treatment started. Treatment of a disease that lasts 20 years in our Croatia. In its assessment of the situation, it states that since the entry into force of the Employment Encouragement Act, the highest public interest has awakened professional training for work without the establishment of employment relations and seasonal employment in agriculture. By 31 August 2012, 2930 persons have been involved since the entry into force of the law and 170 551 coupons have been purchased. So 2930 people. We need to remember very well this number of young people involved in employment. What's good, what's going to happen in this bill, is that it shortens the time to keep in records from 90 days to 30 days because many young people have just had questions to me as to why it is such a long period of time that they have to spend at the Employment Office and is replaced by a period of 1 year in retirement insurance by a period of 1 year of training for which an unemployed person has been educated, regardless of the total training achieved in pension insurance. There is also a need to prescribe a period of professional training for more than 24 months because of the professions where the duration of the traineeship is prescribed for 36 months. You also extend the definition of an employer who can hire on temporary or occasional seasonal jobs in agriculture and on a natural person, or a person who does not have registered agricultural activity and is not the holder of the CAP registered in the relevant register. It is also important to address significant difficulties in determining the circle of persons who are not obliged to enter into a seasonal work contract to carry out temporary, or occasional seasonal jobs in agriculture that are defined by members of the family of the employer of the natural person who is employed in these jobs, who, in the context of the tradition of providing family assistance, can help that natural person, in this case, do not apply employment provisions on temporary or occasional seasonal jobs in agriculture. In addition, as an exception to the obligation to conclude a seasonal work contract for the performance of temporary, or occasional seasonal jobs in agriculture, both friendly and neighbourly assistance is prescribed to the natural person in the performance of the business if his friends do the work without payment and other material benefits. These proposals are certainly commendable and therefore the HDSB club will support this law. But what to say about the results of the employment. That's where I go back to those 2930 employees. As young people say, young people in Croatia are increasingly unable to remain alone from the primary family and are actively involved in social and primary processes. There are over 100,000 young people on the labour market, of whom 60% do not have a single job experience in the profession. The spread of social dissatisfaction, the loss of social potential and the negative perception of life chances are just some of the consequences that young people experience after years of unemployment. According to HZZ data, 311 100 unemployed persons were registered at the office in September. Today we have 324 000 unemployed, which means unemployment is a rapid race. The unemployment rate in September of this year was 27,433 people, or 9.7% higher than in September last year. Compared to September 2008, the number of unemployment rates increased by 88,883 people. Unfortunately, the day-to-day closure of companies and the dismissal of workers continues. We have one of the biggest tax burdens in Europe, and with an increase in VAT rates, a decline in GDP, a commitment to energy prices, food products, of course, there is a decrease in production and consumption, and thus by increasing the unemployment rate. We have destroyed our own economy, and such a negative trend continues. Very soon Croatia will disappear demographically because young people do not start families and leave Croatia mass, and so are the facebooks of groups that invite young people to leave their country. In plan 21, you mention the triangle of school-job-room as the backbone of youth policy. I'm afraid that triangle looks about like this school-aircraft-Australia. Who's lucky so he's got money for a ticket, and she's most of the unfortunates who don't have money for a map that triangle looks like a school-biro-containers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18250	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HNS club, respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18251	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. So this law of HNS supports it. These changes are essentially a reflection of the real policy of the government of the Republic of Croatia, a coalition government that recognizes and feels the needs, recognizes and feels what citizens are looking for, what young people who are today and here at the gallery are asking questions and a desire to work to train professionally and that, this ministry, this government, responded very quickly and adapted the conditions and life. And that's how this government works. There's always talk about the unemployed, and now he's alimony with the daily numbers from the Employment Service Report. And basically what is fundamental, what is crucial, which is the participation of employees in the working-active population where Croatia is at the bottom of Europe's countries. The European Union is on average 65% of employees in the working population. Croatia is about 50%. Because we all need to be aware, and I believe that it is not an obligation to apply to the Employment Service. A large number of citizens and citizens are not registered at the Employment Service, but also plays an active role in employment and job-seeking or self-employment. And what is crucial for this government, which is crucial for measures not only of these changes to the laws that are essentially life-saving and that citizens support safely because they reflect the desire and need of citizens especially young people is to raise the participation of employees in a working population. All measures, including this law, and there are a lot of laws in this House are to ensure the climate that ensures the entrepreneur that he has the safety of investing in a business venture, to ensure that he is freed from profits from investment, to provide him not only with measures of professional training for young people but also to provide him with the funds that essentially cover his investment in new employees. So this amendment and the addition of the law is essentially just a real measure at this point of sense of need, reaction to giving and concrete law. And this is the law essentially the one that clearly defines how it will be realized. This is a law that has no need for additional and regulations, guidance and any other details because it is clean and clear and, in fact, detailed analytically entering into the problem and those to which it concerns agriculture, as regards young people, as regards training. We in HNS, except of course what I said, support these amendments and amendments to the law and support all measures that are related to the economy so that they can ensure that young people enter these measures as much as possible. And there's always a lot of debate this morning about how the economy, entrepreneurship, has not even responded to these measures. Well, it's clear that the economy is in trouble, and that's why we're doing the changes to the law and supplementing the law to make sure the economy starts to breathe. You can't expect the economy to hire if it's insolvency in society, if it's insolvencies in society. I believe that by the end of the year, we will provide this liquidity in society, clear the market in terms of non-payment, and that is why we have passed laws that ensure payment within 30 days, or 60 days which you, as a HDZ club, have also supported. Because it is one of the key measures that ensures that this law works in the economy as well, but until it works in the economy, do we have to wait with the measures to either the public sector that took over that initiative and the role it must play to ensure that young people can be trained professionally or that in agriculture people can work legally and have compensation just and that they are legal. Therefore, this is only one part of the measures and will be by the end of the year and the laws that define, which improve, which provide conditions, and what is crucial then and for investments. It has also been said that there is no investment this year as far as last year, but when you take an investment analysis from last year, then you will understand that a large part of the investments that are essentially recorded as investments are essentially just re-counting certain loans to banks from mothers banks to capital. So we know that statistics are often misleading, but what is crucial is that we create conditions, so this government is working intensely and vigorously to create conditions, to change laws, to adapt to real life, to the real needs of the macroeconomic situation. All of this together would be difficult to implement if we hadn't kept the rating, not having budget consolidation, not taking care of the deficit. A lot of measures in the recovery and restructuring that have begun and in the privatisation work that we have to finish on the smuggling. So these are all the measures in which this government, unlike the previous one, works in all segments, everything is a priority for employment, for investment, for the financial stability of the state and for the retention of young people in the Republic of Croatia, because home is best, home is the most beautiful and we are obliged and agreed to provide them with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18252	Thank you, too. We've even reported five replicas to this exhibit. First distinguished representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18253	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, counterpart Djurkovic said at one point that this law is a product of the government's recognition of the desire of young people. A moment ago Mrs. Kosor said that 324 990, if I remember correctly, in the meantime, bidding 325 171 is on that list, which obviously is not the wish of young people. During this debate, I received an e-mail from a man in Sisak, who said that he had addressed the minister with an email, but had not received any reply. His son sent over 600 applications here in Zagreb, a master's informatics from Sisak. A man asks what the perspective of a young man in Sisak is? It's true that he's still writing his applications. Any job he can gain is either in the City Headship, or in the County. Since he's not a member of any of the parties, the man asks if that's the answer, then this law is irrelevant to him. I think when you realized this, that this government, with this move, recognized the desire of young people, that you were quite wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18254	The replica matches the respected Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18255	An esteemed colleague, so the minister himself said they received more than 1,500 e-mails, and I received some of the e-mails where young people rebel. Which is why it's got to be 90 days, why it's not 30 days, so I've been working for two months over the summer, I've just finished my profession. So that's why I said, this is a law that adapts to life and there will be more things like that, it's just a story that this government clearly feels problems, reacts to what users point out and everything that's real and everything that's needed is going to change. That's why it's good to have this kind of government that reacts, that understands, and that goes quickly to those reactions. Because we don't have time for those timeouts the opposition was talking about, let's postpone some laws, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18256	Second replica, the esteemed representative of Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18257	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here's fellow Gjurkovic saying, "These changes are a reflection of the government's labour policy, this coalition government." And on the trail of his now replica, let me just say, to add that these changes are a reflection of not listening to the government. Because when we passed this law in 5 months, then we talked about all the problems we're dealing with today, and we've certainly talked and warned about the very things you're saying that young people on thousands and thousands of e-mails are coming now, where they point to some kind of irregularities or the illogicalness of the law that we've voted on in 5 months. If this government in this House were to listen to advice, then I think we could use less change, and I'm making up for the same thing you said, and you voted for payment deadlines for 30 days, or 60 days, too. Yes, we have voted, and everyone in this assembly will always vote for what is good, so it would be good for the government to also assess what parliamentary MPs from the coalition, or coalitions and oppositions say well and as such that they should be implemented into the law, that changes are made as few times as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18258	Dear colleagues, I agree with you that the Government should and will, and we, as a coalition in the Parliament, accept, but in the right sense, constructive proposals. And I'm sure that part of the proposal that was in the last five months has now been accepted in the way that you suggested, but it's been confirmed by the citizens most concerned. And of course we invite you to continue to work constructively and to be part of this coalition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18259	Another replica, the Đuro Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18260	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So it is true that not all unemployed people have to report to the Croatian Employment Service. That is indeed true, because here we know that the annual Croatian Employment Service issues 400,500 thousand various certificates. And that's really one of the reasons why I claimed a year ago that real unemployment and it doesn't mature in that figure. The only first methodology is the methodology of the International Labour Organisation. When we tried to say it here, then you "tryed to shit on us," but that's true, and it's happening to you today, and you're trying to suggest it now. It is also true that there are about 15 different reasons why people are deleted from the Croatian Institute, from the Croatian Employment Institute records. That's why you have a situation where there's a larger number, that you have an increase in the total number of unemployed, and you have a higher number of exits from that record than entry. Well, that's because you're erasing them, of course, because for some reason they've acquired the terms of no longer being there. It's grotesque, actually, and sad to see, here I am now reading on the alibi of the first Deputy Prime Minister for the fall in investment this year. Of course it hasn't been long that he's accused, seen surprises, past government of it. Well, I guess then the government went away because there was a billion euros in foreign investment and I don't know why this year this government wouldn't be guilty because there's only 150 million euros in investment. And it's grotesque to look at, say, when pictures are in front of Pliva's new investment over $100 million, which almost 90% is finished, and he says he's responsible for it, and he says that in six months, there's no garage to be made. So how can you make a six-month drive... an investment of over $100 million. So it's obviously a big manipulation of both facts and figures, and it's really better to take a job than to constantly manipulate numbers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18261	Reply to the replica of Col. Jurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18262	Well, in one fact, we can't agree, and it's basic, it's called number manipulation. Since the arrival of the new coalition government, it has been made clear and clear, and that is that all figures in this state are public sector, private sector, statistics absolutely transparent, absolutely open and absolutely true, and there is no debate at all about us hiding anything. Therefore, when we talk about last year's investments then as I spoke from the pay phone, it is clear that part of the investment was not a large investment in production but a capital investment, but a capital investment of banks in Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18263	Replica representative Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18264	Your Honor, Mr. President. A fellow representative said that this government quotes "what citizens want". My replica and answer is that this government is doing everything that citizens don't want to do. If you don't believe me, dear colleague, you could have seen tens of thousands of protesters a few days ago who walked to say not to roll down the Ilica I was counting on 15 minutes of full profile Ilica was passing the protesters and it was filled with Ban Jelačić Square in yellow with that they were no longer transmitted in direct television broadcasts a year ago when two hooligans were shot whether they had broken two windows, and now this has been devoted either 3 seconds or nothing. But everything doesn't matter to me. The people expected this government to depolitize the state, you did not depolitize it, but you super politicized it. The people expected you to bring to places capable, not alike. You bring in similar and not capable professional people. The people expected you to pave the way for investment because it's clear to everyone and to a small child that it's the only way out of the crisis. You have done everything with this policy to die of investment, you have practically frozen Croatia, Croatia is on its knees. We need to change this policy. This may be normal on our side, but with your confession, it was premature. But here I'm telling you that this is evident now that this policy has no chance of success because it doesn't encourage investment, but rather all vice versa, it runs processes that detimise job creation and we don't have a perspective to get out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18265	Replication response, dear Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18266	Dear fellow Members, while you forbade protesting in Mark's square, we respect democracy and citizens' rights to protest at Mark's square in front of the government in front of the Parliament, and they have the right to do so. Of course, the collective agreements here present as the minister in charge of the negotiations are not simple. Why? Because you gave them rights to certain groups of unions that are extremely difficult to agree on because each taking away certain rights is a normal problem. However, Croatian citizens have given this coalition the opportunity to manage, lead to help this country move forward to make these citizens start investment and start employment, and this government is doing it clearly and there is this support. Therefore, our journey to Europe and our journey to the future is covered by the signature of Croatian citizens in democratic elections and all that we have promised, all that we have said we will implement, and what is crucial and basic when we talk about protests we allow and that is, the development of democracy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18267	And the last replica, the esteemed Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18268	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You told your colleague Gjurkovic statistics are often misleading about the fall or growth, so I'll remind you. As this government arrives, everything that shouldn't fall, and unfortunately much faster than the greatest pessimists predicted. GDP falls, investment falls, foreign investment falls, wages fall, and consumption falls. And everything that shouldn't grow, which is unemployment, inflation, prices and taxes. This morning, it was reported that the number of unemployed in the Republic of Croatia was 324 thousand 401 people, and now it's data that it's 324 thousand 990 which is here during this debate 589 people at the Employment Office are new, of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18269	Reply to the replica Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18270	Dear colleague, I must repeat what I have answered in the replica of your colleague, which is if you have 70 employees who do not receive salaries in companies that have been blocked 365 days. ... You left it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Yeah, yeah. And what you can expect from them, that they go into employment and receive wages or to ensure the conditions of those provided by the Croatian Employment Service after the announcement. So all the numbers you're talking about are real, factual, and unfortunately, they're certainly not stopping at this point because of what we have and what's expected to be. So we deny it at all, we're just talking about the facts that exist. Of course, we expect to launch foreign capital investments, foreign investors, in 2013, but especially small and medium-sized enterprises, to which we provide quality conditions for HAMAG, which the HBOR, we can expect new employment, development and growth of GDP. It's a process, it's all a process, and you said yourself there's nothing going on overnight. Therefore, what we want and what is clear to the citizens is that we do not hide numbers and it is done to ensure quality conditions.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18271	We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18272	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. Here, listening to the debate so far, I think we are actually having a lot of discussion about the situation in the Croatian economy, and the least of all about this legislative proposal. Because as I understand this legislative proposal as a basic plan, the essence and essence of it is to help young people and not only young people, but to those who want to become professional in their profession, i.e. to pass professional training and the goal is to get experts, of course and to enable young people, or those who will prove themselves in the profession, to give them the opportunity to actually prove themselves. It's the core of this law, and I could now give some examples, but that's what many before me have said so that I don't repeat myself. About young people, people who graduated from colleges, and also those who worked outside their profession and who wanted to participate, wanted to compete in this programme, but they couldn't because this legal provision did not allow them to either have an internship or have just finished colleges, so they had to spend three months at the employment bureau. The situation in the economy should be recognised is difficult, however there are no overnight results. What I'd like to point out here is that this government has never haired so as to say the number of unemployed, that those who went to requalifications have not been deleted from the records of the institute, to show that employment has fallen. So the situation is difficult, but she doesn't need to be run away, she needs to be faced, that's our reality. I don't think we're gonna get anything like this. The problems that have accumulated for 20 years without entering now who generated them, which were decisions, which were good or guilty cannot be solved overnight. I'd be the happiest if we could do it like the minister told me to have a magic wand, swing with it, and everything would be fine. Unfortunately, it's not like that. However, I see this law as a small contribution to progress, as a small contribution to making it easier for our citizens to train professionally, to come to work, to get an opportunity to prove themselves as workers. A wise man said that the journey of 1,000 miles begins with one step. So I would say that the path of economic revitalisation of Croatia begins with such small steps, and that every step is very important in order to reach the goal that I think we all ultimately share, which is that Croatia also takes its rightful place in the European family. All similar proposals will legally have my support because I think every step towards a better one should be very supportive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18273	Thank you very much. On this exhibit, we have two replicas reported. First Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18274	Thank you very much. Mr. Hajduković's colleague, Plan 21, writes as follows: economic growth and new jobs are the main objectives of our strategy known as 5i: investment, industry, exports, innovation, integration. Of this, nothing but here and there are some integrations, and they're stuck. Furthermore, it says in your program that the biggest violation of workers' rights is unemployment. This state will provide workers with safety of work. Now, I'm direct minister and ask, here the other day, as a replica to you, here the other day in white and blue uniforms were health care professionals of the physical course and high nurses. I don't mean high body, but they've finished high school medical professions. Is there a possibility for these young people to be allowed to at least through these, as 1600 kuna claims, to do their internship, that they do not have to wait for the decision of the slow HZZO and the call for competitions in HZZ to be included in this category of 1600 kuna. If I can't do it with an amendment, at least I can ask you that I don't write the amendment for nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18275	Replication response, colleague Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18276	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Grubisic, at least you've taught me my name, that's good progress, and you've made a step. But here's because you mainly asked the minister I won't answer, then I'll leave it to the minister, except I'll say that, the safety of work is what is actually at the heart of social democracy as well as the right to work as one of the fundamental human rights. But the policy in which we create institutions and agencies to hire people means that they don't create a new value that's a missed policy, that's what's done so far. This government won't and won't do it, but as I said it should run the economy, it's not simple, especially in the conditions that we inherited and certainly I personally and the party to which I belong will fight for every job.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18277	Another replica, representative Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18278	Your Honor, Mr. President. I'd like to look back on what you said, so you said that the government's request had a haircut on the results of the unemployed. Let's think about it and clear up as Mr. Mr. Mrsic says and let me tell you that's not true. Stop saying that more, you with it, we can make it a lie. We've translated the lie into false. You're just lying. The last government didn't hair data on the unemployed for a simple reason, you caught these 15 grand that the last government put to school. The minister himself told you it was a legal category because when you send him for requalification, then he no longer acts as unemployed. This is not what the Government wanted, therefore, but it was simply the result of the administrative act, or the situation. And what can we do in our apartment? Put on a curtain, wash the window, but you can't tell anyone if you have an apartment of 30 or 150 square feet if it's that big and so big. And if the government passed that and she haired it, if she could with 15 grand, the number of 15 grand to keep that unemployment at 300 grand as much as she was, and less than 300 grand a year, so do you understand what that means? You spent that number in 15 days because there are a thousand unemployed a day. No more talking about hair and non-phrase. This is an obvious thing, and I don't think there's any point in spending any more time here on the last government. It was unemployment, this one's growing now. Let's look for a way to stop her, open up our investments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18279	Replication response, colleague Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18280	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So colleague Marasovic agrees that it was a legal category like the minister said, but who was passing the laws asking you and why was it passed, why is it a legal category? I mean, it's a simple question. I just wanted to avoid that constant return to the old, that politicization other than this I just had to say. But I don't want to get involved with the reasons why we're in this situation that we are. I agree with you investments should be launched and I believe they will run, but yet we can't expect the impossible to mean overnight that we will achieve everything immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18281	Minister Mrsic answered the word.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18282	Dear Mr Vice President, therefore, as regards colleagues who have a mandatory traineeship either after a high or university of health professions, pharmaceuticals, dentists and all those who are prescribed by law, they unfortunately cannot run for this measure because this measure is voluntary and all measures of active employment policy as well as enrolment at the Employment Office is voluntary. So, you show it with your own free will while the internship is required. So it's an obligation without which you can't move on, you can't get a license, you can't run on all that. So that's the obligation of HZZO and the Ministry of Health and it's an ongoing solution to that problem so I hope that this problem will be resolved very quickly.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18283	We've heard one explanation, so we're all very interested in what the replica of this explanation will look like. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18284	And why shouldn't I give the replica to the Minister? If you think I can't?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18285	You may, you may.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18286	Well, then don't comment on my line. So, Mr. Minister, you've been to St. John's Square. Mark that day when these young people were here, then you would hear from each of them that they would be very happy to do their traineeship voluntarily for 1600 kuna. Voluntary, and you say it's about volunteering. Here, replicas, Mr. Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18287	Another replica, Darko Milinovic, a respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18288	Thank you very much. I also doubt that these measures will lead to an increase in employment for the simple reason why if we mention the health system, the colleague mentioned HZZO, but about 7.8 months already there is a ban on employment in the Croatian health system. And since we know that the Croatian healthcare system has a shortage of thousands and nurses and doctors there has been a ban for the past 7.8 months on the new, let’s say, new employment in the healthcare system but also those nurses who retire have been prevented from receiving new healthcare workers in the vacant place. And that's why I would take this opportunity for this government to consider that the resolute minister, not you, but the resolute minister, is considering abolishing that ban because indeed in certain hospitals, doctors and nurses are actually on the verge of physical breakdown.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18289	We're continuing an individual debate. Dear Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18290	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with an associate, colleague and colleague. Well, here's what we hear all morning. A very gallant debate. We see that there are major employment problems, i.e. non-employment, that is, many problems have accumulated in recent years when an irresponsible policy has actually been conducted. However, I will begin this debate with the finding of a colleague from the HDSSB when he said that therapy started and precisely because he would adopt such a law, and I will say that our minister is a very good doctor, and that means he can make a good history, diagnosis and therapy translated here into a recording of the situation, analysis and suggestions and such proposals and give through these legislative proposals. This was also seen in the opening section when he told us that there were measures so far as to increase public works, and professional training and support for employment, self-employment, etc. It's very good that for the first time there's going to be an evaluation, so one profession is being introduced, a structure in the whole problem, that doesn't happen to educate some unemployed people and that they go back to the employment office. The fact is that in the Republic of Croatia, it is 3 in Europe according to the trend of youth unemployment and today we have 70,000 young people without experience. Such people should therefore be given a chance because they are in a very difficult situation in the labour market. Thus, such people often fall into apathy, come to a closed door, hence such people, such people, these are small movements, but such people should be helped. And today in these big discussions we talked about big projects, big investments, but we forgot about these moves, small ones. We live in a time when the situation needs to be constantly evaluated, seen, we actually have to take all the steps, however small they are, or as small they seem, we actually have to change trends. By thanking the Employment Encouragement Act, it was adopted in May 2012 and the highest interest and controversy was related to professional training for work without establishing a working relationship, i.e. seasonal employment in agriculture. We have achieved our goal and have achieved the satisfaction of these young people who are allowed for the first time to have working experience, that they can be on the labour market, that they can compete on the labour market. However, by applying such a law, it was visible and everyone, here and the minister said that e-mails were coming, all of us were likely to have young people who had some barriers that they could actually, that this law could be applied to them. So they were people who were actually working during the study, actually they had to work to study and create in this way, earn in that way, so that they could actually study. They were signs in an unfavourable position because they had a year's internship in retirement insurance. Thus, today’s bill corrects such and similar situations or a lot of young people who have done other low - tech work could not actually appear in such competitions because they have passed over 29 years. Therefore, this bill actually corrects all of this, i.e. abolishing barriers and abolishing discrimination against such persons who could not have the right under this law. The second part, which is very important, are actually agricultural workers, i.e. the changes that have taken place in this area. We believe that we are all aware that agriculture, in agriculture, applies other rules than in other activities. Namely, both the country and the livestock, and the plants do not know the annual vacations, nor the holidays and certainly cannot worry about the division, the even distribution of the business. So we have changes here and it's actually changing, it defines exactly who can work on such jobs, not just to achieve material benefits or profits. This is, I think, very important because it creates a single social capital that is very low in Croatia, it is all 11%, and it should actually be included in the success of the economy and society, society at all. And one more thing that I've actually pointed out in the replica, I think that in these topics local self-government units have to be involved with their own development agencies and that we simply have to take from the ministry the tools that provide us with, and in this way, our innovations actually look at the situation and act on reducing unemployment in the area of local self-government. So I can finally say that, once again, we live in times when the situation needs to be constantly seen and evaluated and we have to take all the steps, however small they are, in fact to change the trends that are now. And that is why this law is normal for me to accept and I believe that there will be a lot of initiatives in the future that will help young people, and others to reach their employment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18291	Thank you, fellow Shimac Bonacci. Replica has a colleague named Nadica Jelash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18292	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Well, colleagues Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić, your affirmative debate about unemployment with an emphasis on youth unemployment has invited me to this replica of mine. In fact, I would like to say that youth unemployment as well as overall unemployment is primarily the result of the devastation of the economy. So the economy as it is, right now it simply doesn't have the absorption power to accept new employees. However, I will mention some more unemployment generators. First of all, I will mention an inadequate education system that still produces a huge number of young people, those educational profiles, which unfortunately are not suitable for this economic structure. We'd say simply, the economy by road, and the education system by forest. I'll back it up with one example from Međimurje County where I come from. So, construction companies from Međimurje who are strong, so this sector is in our economy, locally strong for years, importing construction profile workers from neighbouring Bosnia and Herzegovina because there are simply no such profiles in Croatia, or in the County of Međimurje. The second unemployment generator is, in my opinion, an inadequate social care system, so again, one concrete example from Međimurje County, a company or local self-government unit is launching a tender for public works and no one is reporting, so there are no interested. The question arises why are there no interested people at such a high rate of total unemployment? You can't just get workers because they're perfectly in love with the welfare system, so they're receiving generous social assistance, and they're working. So these are the two problems that I've been talking about that should be spoken of in parallel to the measures that the government is taking to address the unemployment problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18293	The answer to the replica of my colleague, Šimac-Bonacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18294	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleagues, when you talk about the unemployment generator, then we can see a variety of examples and I agree with you that unemployment cannot be viewed from one aspect but must be seen multidisciplinaryally and safely in each segment that we must make changes. You also mentioned social care, or that very often we see that people receive more. That's the kind of policy I've had so far. We have already given signs by changing the Law on Social Welfare and Change of Social Policy, and we are already working on a change to give people a job to work, not to receive social assistance. Thus, our government has already started to change in this direction to reduce these unemployment generators to the least possible measure.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18295	Next in the debate of counterpart Nenad Stazic, vice president of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18296	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So if someone well-intentioned, interested in following this debate today in continuity, he could rightly be very angry. You could be angry, you could be worried and you'd have to ask yourself some questions. It would have to start with the question, whether the minister is saying it vaguely, inexplicably, blurryly, so no one can understand what the minister actually says when he says it or those who listen to him don't want to hear what the minister says or can't understand the simplest sentences. The minister here said this law will not open jobs and it has repeated it but at least seven times as many as I have counted, and counterpart Dujomir Marasovic, replicating the minister, the appropriate minister, opposeing the minister, says with this law you will not open your jobs. So it's like the minister came and said today is Thursday, at Marasovic says no, no, the minister today is Thursday. That's the level of debate, that's what citizens have to listen to, that's what citizens choose to do, so when they choose to do it, let them listen. I'm always surprised at the way you do it. This law is good, says academic Reiner, but it's not a problem that you encourage employment, the problem is that you don't open jobs but it shuts down. We have the Employment Encouragement Act, that there's a job loss problem, so we all know that. It means how you can do it now. He complains to someone who makes hammers and says, "Who the hell do you guys now make hammers when it's time to drink the plank and you won't be able to do that with a hammer, so you need a saw?" Well, clearly, you need a saw to re-drink the board, but a hammer needs to be put in a nail. The concepts, the goals, the intentions are being pursued, the intentions are being chased. And why is that done? In order to object to the government to object to this law, he wants to object only to object because the law is good. 27% increase in budgets to encourage employment. The moment of the year when the total budget falls, when the total budget is reduced. What is increasing in this reduced budget, what is the government increasing? It increases the means to encourage employment, and now it needs to be attacked, and it needs to be turned around. That's why he's complaining to the government. So when a good-intentioned listener has to ask people what this is? Who did we choose? Tell those young people who have no working experience that this law is wrong and unnecessary, if you dare. These young people, when they complete the educational process, they enter into one loop with no end, the beginning and end there are bound in that loop. He's running a competition, all the competitions are looking for at least a year's work experience. So where do you get it? Where to get it? He can't theoretically start working anywhere. Nowhere, never because he'll always miss that factor that he has no work experience. No one's gonna take it without work experience. So what does the government do now? The government says we'll give 1600 kunas. It's not much, it's not pay, it's stimulation. But what makes it possible for these people? To get out of the loop, it enables them and now it's being attacked. That's not good. So what happens if that's wrong? And now we come to what is constantly complaining to the government, which is an increase in unemployment. So tell me if that unemployment started to grow when this government came or if it was growing before, let's be logical. You know, people I think rightly have to wonder. What can reduce unemployment, which can encourage employment, so only new investments can do new jobs. Well, one law can't hire new people, so I guess that's how much we have to be all reasonable and logical together. We're not hiring people by law, it's got to be investment, it's got to be a deal. And as jobs were concluded, so we have an example in Knin, so the monument is not a contract to build monuments for defenders, but it was an oral agreement that you make, and we will pay you. And how unemployed it would have been if that monument hadn't been built. Here's how it was done. And now the one who did so complains to the one who wants to bring order. It's about like this, when someone spills milk and then attacks and says milk is spilled all over your floor. I take a glass, I water someone, and I say, you're all wet, you're not embarrassed. That's how you resonate here in this House. What citizens expect, a bickering in the Parliament over these laws, a million replicas to these laws, certainly not. Will you vote for this bill, I'm sure you will. I'm sure you will because that law is good, that law is good, that law helps young people, that law helps farmers, that law helps those who work in agriculture in seasonal affairs. That law is good, and that's why you'll vote for it. And why do you argue like this, why a million replicas in this House, why object to the government, and just because you don't have any other arguments and not even such good bill proposals that we all agree with them together to help these people in this country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18297	Thank you. We have several replicas on your exhibit. The first is a colleague of Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18298	Your Honor, Madam President. Mr. Stazić, you've graduated from your great propaganda schools,...professor I know, you've been a journalist of Radio Zagreb and you're on that side five, straight five. You're an excellent speaker and manipulator, and you make a lot of contributions to your party in that speech sense. You really deserve an "A," not to have no objection, but all the praises. But I'm going to tell you that you're incorrect because I answered the line when Mr. Secretary hadn't yet said what he said he wasn't going to solve this, that he wasn't going to hire. I called earlier, that's the first one. Secondly, I've quoted three things that I'm replicating, which is how we prevent the hairstyle of the unemployed, all of our employment measures have produced good results, and they haven't produced any results, we've brought a lot of projects to Croatia, so that was kind of the most painful thing for me. And I answered in good faith, I said what I had to say and you didn't have to negotiate it that way, but it's your right as well as mine before what I said. Let's move on, let's say 00. But what I want to tell you, Mr. Stazic, you know what this government is doing, it's de facto of this banal thing that you yourself say is that banal and small things are put here at the Parliament in the morning when television and de facto is going through the Parliament of these little and even quality shifts that we voted for. This law has already been passed, for the record, just something being complemented. But you know what you, noose to the Croatian people you spend on HERA, are going to raise the price of electricity and gas, not what it will raise, it's not important, but in the future it's going to be priced by a Mate, Stipe, Jure in the name of the party, and you're going to say that you have nothing to do with it. That's the point, you privatize HEP and the electricity will sell five people or three men after they will and will import them from wherever they want and will be worse than it was in HEP for which trials are now. That's the point of things, and you're hiding it from the Croatian people, you're doing it in an illegal way...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18299	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18300	It's a non-saborial way, and that's that this country is going to ruin because of this kind of approach to government and behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18301	My colleague Marasović, please, every time. I don't rule you out, but I say every time you talk for more than two minutes, that's incorrect to others, call for a hearing, and you'll have 10 minutes. [[Upadica Marasović: Do not exclude me.]] Reply to the replica of fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18302	Comrade Marasovic, first of all, thank you for your compliment on my speech skills, but I think you're a little out of line. Secondly, I refuse to comment on your inaccuracy, I am not that incorrect. In his opening statement, the minister said that this law would not open jobs, in his opening statement, and he repeated it again for sure seven more times. And thirdly, we're now discussing encouraging employment, not HEP, to sell HEP. Whenever you have nothing to object to the measure of things, you start talking around about anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18303	Next replica, colleague of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18304	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here I think it's a good idea for us to stop at a little bit in the debate about this law and to discuss and to pollomize and the way we discuss it. Coli Stazic says he wants to object to objecting and objecting here because there are no other arguments. Comrade Stazić, in fact, your entire parliamentary mandate as a representative of the opposition so far, you've actually built it exactly that way. I can't think of any of your discussions when I was a member of the government, especially when I was Prime Minister, where you didn't criticise, but with humiliation, with humiliation, with irony, with an incredible amount of sarcasm talking about what the Government of the Republic of Croatia was doing. And now that you're talking about it and you're objecting to an opposition to criticizing something, I'm reminding you of maybe 2.3 examples. The Labour Act – you didn't want to support it either, not only did you not want to keep your mouth shut so that we could change the Labour Act in these minimum parts, but you were speaking here, insulting it, and we haven't changed the law. We changed the pension insurance law. You didn't want to support it. In fact, then you said that as soon as you came to power you would change it, and now we're even talking about increasing the age limit to 67 years. The reduction of the parafiscal burdens that we have implemented as one of the measures of the economic recovery programme and the entire economic recovery programme was continuously attacked in this assembly. However, in 2010, when we started to implement the programme and when the first results were seen you were looking for, and you as a representative, my shift from the head of the government saying nothing happens, nothing happens and all is dust and ashes. In the end, you say and ask the question when did the growth of unemployment that we're talking about today start? So more than 325 thousand unemployed. Well, it started to grow, when we're talking growth is something and growth is an increase, isn't it? So, from the end of our term to today, unemployment has really increased and has been growing in particular here at the time of the tourist season when usually and always boredom in independent Croatia falls. And these are the arguments that you will, of course, continue to face in this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18305	Thank you. Replication response, fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18306	Dear colleagues, Kosor, I have always tried to speak with argument. It wasn't always easy to listen to the other side, I admit it. Yes, I was looking for your shift while you were Prime Minister, but I was looking for her because I thought your government was bad. And that I was right, and not you, they proved the citizens who replaced you in the election. It wasn't always pleasant to listen to what I was saying here. While Sanader was prime minister, I asked him to examine where his property came from, where he bought the house, where he bought the watches. While I was looking for it, you were here defending him and saying that I'm talking shit, spreading hate, telling the truth, attacking without any arguments like you're complaining to me today. Time, however, is showing Mrs. Kosor that I was right.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18307	The Republic has a colleague, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18308	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice President, if I understand you correctly, you're a crazy man who doesn't understand what the minister is saying. Well, I don't think that's exactly an appropriate statement, someone might not understand someone, but that's not why he's crazy. I think it's extremely incorrect for this where we discuss it. As to whether or not we're discussing, are we sticking to the subject? Well, as many times as both sides haven't stuck to the subject, but there's a representative of the government, and that employment policy is closely related to all these topics that were mentioned here. But now you've changed the subject, you've now turned to history what you said about Sanader when he was in power. Let it go. What do the citizens expect? Are they expecting replicas and bickering? Among other things, they expect replicas and bickering, but they expect the ruling to hear what the opposition says, to sometimes respect what the opposition says. Normally no one expects it to always be, but look at the phonogram of the record when we last discussed this law. What is now being done was proposed by the opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18309	Thank you. The next line has a colleague named Gjuro Popiach.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18310	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Vice President, you shouldn't have put so much effort into defending Minister Mrsic, he's really very good at convincing us here and today that he actually has this number of unemployed who can, has nothing to do with it, that his measures can't do anything about it and that with the situation in the economy, there's really nothing. That's probably right. His portfolio is really so limited that as a minister, he doesn't feel responsible for all this, but he's responsible as a member of the government. So when he has nothing to do with who's going to create jobs in Croatia, bring us someone who's responsible for it. There's no such thing. It appears possibly twice a year when the current clock you can barely organize is current. Bring someone who will answer the question, let's just say this, the Croatian industry could flee to Serbia because of cheaper energy. How many thousands of jobs will be lost because of that? That, Minister Mrsic, with it as minister of this ministry may not matter, but he certainly has as a member of the government. Bring us someone to talk to about it, about the state of the economy, which is why jobs are being lost in the economy, why laws like this are being passed yesterday as well as the one at the end of the energy sector that is about to cause a further decline in competitiveness in the Croatian economy. We have no one to talk to, we need to talk about these things to the man who's here. And it's a good thing it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18311	Thank you. Next replica Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18312	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Stazic said well this is really a law that corrects awkwardness, corrects injustices in a law that was passed before it was necessary, but come on, it was done well to realize that there is a hole and that these holes need to be patched up. Unfortunately, this whole law is sort of patching holes in the finger defense. You know what that thing in Holland used to do, don't you? He kept that boy's finger in the hole so the dam wouldn't break. But this dam of ours has too many holes and we're talking about it today. Of course, the whole thing started in robbery times, in robbery times since '95, and now we're going to get paid, that's what we're talking about today. Unfortunately, your government also promised deadlines, no one forced them, no one forced the first vice president to say, if he didn't leave by September, here I go. However, deadlines have been promised. The bright future is by definition always in the future, otherwise it wouldn't be what it is. I've listened to it, I'm many years old and I remember for a long time, I've listened to these bright futures many times in various forms and definitions. Our children today are looking for the future, today they're looking for the future, otherwise they're going to Canada. Every one of us has someone in the house who's about to go to Canada. Those holes, those big holes need patching, of course we have to do this and we'll support it, that's good and smart, it's not a dilemma at all. But today we're talking about these big holes, and this conversation needs to be held, and since it's not officially on the agenda, here's what we took advantage of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18313	Thank you very much, fellow Vuljanic. And the last line of my colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18314	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I really don't understand why you're so thirsty, so nervous in your debate. We could now take out some of your discussions on topics that were discussed in this high house three years ago, and with these topics, this government is having quite a problem today. So to see how you graded some problems three years ago, we're going around the collective contract rights, we're going to talk about that 80% of the budget is being budgeted, and that without cutting some rights, changing the law, it's impossible to change the budget, remember what you said from these benches. But you were an opposition representative and your right was to say so. So I don't understand why you're taking the right to dictate to us what we're going to talk about? You told your colleagues Marasovic not to mention things, because it's not a topic, but when you were in your replica, you were responding to your colleague Kosor, then you touched some things that had nothing to do with this. No matter what you think, but you can't ban any opposition MP from saying that every day the number of employees increases by 1,000. And that all of us with our debate in one way or another want to simply help the government stop that trend. Also yesterday's debate. So you can't say that it wasn't positive by opposition MPs if we asked to find the possibility that these laws will be raised in this way and someone else will be responsible for raising the prices of basic energy to Croatian citizens, to try to find a way to prolong it. So you can't say it's something that opposition MPs shouldn't do? You are today, which is totally unusual, and you've been in this House as long as I have, so it's never exactly happened that someone at one of these points, although very important, has made a decision that there's no pause and that it's done like this all day. It was usually, and even when it was debated about Parliament, clubs and opposition and ruling agreed that due to, and the number of reported etc. to argue all day. So, I think a little bit more respect for each other will lead to a quality debate, and that you're threatening us with your finger, whether we support it or not, the law...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18315	Thank you very much, fellow Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18316	...so we made it clear, and in our first debate, we said what we wanted. In the end, you saw yourself in the past vote that the law that was always good and that certain proposals and suggestions of HDZ were accepted, and HDZ supported the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18317	Thank you. Thank you, please hold your time one more time. Time is measured, you see on the screen. And a reply to the replica, fellow Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18318	Well, fellow Shuker, first of all, I'm not nervous at all, secondly I'm not bile. I don't even know how you're going to argue and your whole club, it's all your business. I'm just surprised, and I can't be surprised that the party in court for corruption and damage to the state budget, the government that inherited it, is complaining that there's not enough money to encourage investment and job creation. That's what I'm surprised at, and it's my right. But I assure you, fellow Shucker, I'm not the only one who's surprised at that. That's what the viewers of this transmission are surprised at. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18319	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go, Comrade Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18320	A fellow Stazic is hurting the Rules of Procedure or is again talking about something that is not being discussed in this House today. A fellow Stazic, if we are to discuss this, is a very important food chain for the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18321	My colleague Stazić responded to your replica and there were no injuries to the Rules of Procedure and I refer you to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. We're continuing an individual debate. Next up is the God of Calmeta. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18322	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Well, of course, this law cannot be viewed differently than in the context of an economic situation in which we are, within the large number of unemployed we have, GDP falls, etc. etc. And that's why it's not weird, it's falling industrial production. And that's why it's no wonder that it's normal for colleagues to talk about this law to expand the subject a little bit and then mention some of the things that we think should be mentioned. Because we didn't say that, I don't know, investments will start at three months, and then at six, then at 9:00, and today we hear that 2013. So we'd like it that way, and we're not glad that it isn't, so be assured. We would all like it to be so, if the foreign capital entrance was large, if we had private investors because economic growth in this country must be borne by private investors. We'd love to, too, but we can't keep quiet if we read in the paper that the decline in investment is therefore not the fault of this government is always the government's fault. Well, now we should keep it quiet and not mention it, and then that would be fine. And you wouldn't behave like that either, so let us react and react. No, there's no investment, so there's no positive expectations. Positive expectations are a very important economic concept in the economy and in the economy and when it comes to consumers and investors and everyone else and that is a key problem. We have lost the election, the citizens have had great expectations of you. The election ended as they ended in victory, but today there are no more of these positive expectations. We're not happy about that either. I am telling you honestly, but it needs to be fixed, so there will be clear new investments and GDP growth and everything else. Not to say there are already some investments that already exist, so they're trying to stop. But now something about the law. I was also talking about this law when we last talked about the Employment Intervention Act, and I have to say that it's a good thing that the time to keep track of 90 to 30 days is shortened, and that last time I talked about it, I think it's a good thing, and that the pension insurance limit is replaced by a 1-year period of internship for which an unemployed person has been educated. It writes here in an explanation and it is good in these amendments to the law and there is also a need to sign the duration of professional training longer than 24 months due to... the duration of the traineeship prescribed up to 36 months. So, as far as the law itself is concerned, let's now separate it from everything else, and the law is as already said here the measure used when there is no job opening, then these two changes in the law are good. I would, however, have several other proposals related exclusively to this law, and this is what I said was good to increase this from 24 to 36 months, but we have persons who have used this professional training without establishing a working relationship and who are using it even today, and for a year they have little to say about passing an expert examination in geometry, with construction engineers and even with some craftsmanship for the master exam, etc. 12 months of this kind of training is not enough than it needs more. And that's why for those of you who are going to use this, it's settled. But what about those who are using it now like the old one or have already used it? It wouldn't be bad enough for them in this law to enable them to turn them on so that they can use this now for up to 36 months. So that's one of my proposals that I think would be good if it seemed to me to be Article 4, so it's that the add-on is written for 24 months is replaced by the words 36 months, it would be good to add for those who have already used it or now use it as old, and I can't for that time that it's been 12 months to pass professional exams, etc. Secondly, if persons who have registered work experience in the workbook are to be subject to the same payment of 100% of the costs as to persons without employment in the workbook, that is to say, pension and health insurance payments are made 100% from the Croatian Employment Office’s funds and those who do not have a registered internship. Namely, if we have someone who has an example. One day of work, or 10 days of work, the employer must pay 350 kuna monthly health insurance for him, and then the employer always wants to take the one who doesn't have one day of work because for him he doesn't have to pay these 350 kunas a month so that those who have 10, 15, 20 or a month's employment here are in an unequal position compared to those who don't have one day's work experience. Furthermore, I think it's well said and said but I think this fee is 1600 kuna so it could be something bigger because it's especially small for those who travel because it doesn't include travel expenses, no travel expenses, etc. so it would be good to make sure that this minimum is raised to minimum wage levels in the Republic of Croatia. And one more thing should be kept in mind, and that's where we have situations that some graduate economist who uses this professional training without establishing a working relationship to take him somewhere, so he doesn't know where to carry a bag or do some jobs that he's not actually... can do it clearly but if he's accepted as a graduate economist then it'd be good to do not know in accounting or to work somewhere where the profession is and not in some other job that the employer will give him, which is happening. And lastly, the question of the voucher was a lot of speeches. I also think that vouchers aren't bad in campaigns, and that's why they're made because in agricultural campaigns there's a variety of harvests when you use labor for 30, 40 days and in fishing somewhere. I think that's a good thing, because it's still going to stop that black campaign work, although I have to say that by talking to some people who use these vouchers and who work in campaigns, it's clear that they were more willing to be accepted for a certain time than to work over a voucher. They'd like to repeat to be admitted for a certain time because then count maybe I'll stay, etc. And the vouchers are vouchers, they're not bad at campaigns, but here I wanted to convey the opinion of people who work on such jobs where they clearly always... work relationship rather than vouchers. Here's so many, a few suggestions that I think if we were to get into this law, the law would be better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18323	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. First responds Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18324	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, this assembly is the best talk about everything. There are no representatives of the government and now all the rhetoric that Col. Stazic had just said was simply falling into the water, and you said that there were no investments,... one false notion of investment, false assumptions why investments should come to Croatia led to what they led to, that practically in the first 9 months we have no investment at all. However, when you put money into the Republic of Croatia into a retroactive tax dividend and charge it back 5 or 10 years of profit tax which it did not even get out of its company and used it as a tradeable asset during all those years and now because it has not drawn out those funds, you fine it nicely, slap what our people would say on the tail and take the money, logical thing for everyone to look on the side and think about what it will be for me tomorrow if we invest Croatia, if I have a profit, what the law will be, by the fact that this is something that is repeated, what this political coalition has done and 2000. So it's not something that didn't happen, they did the same thing in 2000 and it sends a negative message to investors. The second thing, to give a negative opinion on business in the previous year to an independent financial agency such as HANFA for some kind of flat-rate reasons is the same thing that sends a negative message to all investors. But how to invest in Croatia, in a country where the government gives a negative assessment of an independent agency that controls a complete non-banking financial sector, and when you look at the reasons, you really try to look at it with a triple increase you can't find a reason. Why, the only reason to... why there's been a shift at the HANFA administration, so that's it. And as for this employment of young people, our young colleagues without a job job to get an internship, and what good is it if a graduate lawyer, a graduate engineer, goes to work somewhere and doesn't do a job paid for by the state. The education of an economist and one lawyer without speaking to an engineer costs a tremendous amount.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18325	Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18326	And then we say, just two sentences, please. And then we say that we helped him if he went, did a internship somewhere, doing something that had nothing to do with him. It is a pure humiliation and higher education in Croatia and a sheer humiliation of these young people who have worked very hard to graduate from college.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18327	Thank you. Thank you, we get it. Next line, Branko Bacic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18328	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's fellow Kalmeta, in his presentation, said... what the public in Croatia, Croatian citizens expected from this government, is that the positive measures that would encourage investment, which would encourage employment, and how that didn't happen to me here in the Parliament today, and where else, as parliamentary representatives, we have the right to talk about it. So on that trail, I'm going to tell my colleague Calmeta an example that's going to be quite... a picture of what you said. In fact, this government has inherited the law on subsidisation and the state guarantee of stable loans. According to the law in just a few months, 2250 apartments were sold for three months, so 2250 young families bought apartments in just three months under the law. The average age of these families is 31 years. And this government instead of continuing the project, perhaps in a year, to sell the entire unsold apartment fund in Croatia and then encourage new investments, to build new apartments, to encourage the construction sector that is absolutely on its knees, the government puts the law out of force and return to the 2001 law on socially encouraged housing, according to which the law sold 5500 apartments in 11 years, so about 500 apartments a year. This law is not good, today under these new circumstances it is not good and will not win any success and will not be sold apartments, investment in construction will not be stimulated. Here's this one... example of how something that's inherited well from the last government is stopping and something new is opening up, or it's going back to something old that can't get results, and that's why there's an increase in the number of unemployed and the drop in consumption, and then it reflects on all sectors, especially the construction sector.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18329	Thank you. Next up for discussion Martina Banic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18330	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs. One of the burning problems in Croatia is unemployment. Yesterday, more than a thousand people were out of work, now more than 600 of them, and we have to add to them all those who work, and they don't get paid. That number increases significantly. In addition, we must underline the fact that every third unemployed young man is up to 34 years old. Not long ago we had the opportunity to see the research whose results were truly devastating. 57% of young people want to leave Croatia. The survey was conducted on 500 subjects aged 18-25, in five major cities: Zagreb, Split, Rijeka, Osijek and Varazdin and showed that 57% of young people are thinking about going from Croatia to the European Union to study or work. What I have cited is the tragedy of our Croatian government. The majority of young people do not see the perspective and reason why they stay in Croatia. We read this daily in the media but also on social networks where groups are established in which young people express their discontent and talk about leaving Croatia. It's our reality. Young, educated people feel they have no perspective in Croatia. Therefore, they decided to take matters into their own hands and set up a group on a facebook called "Young People Leave Croatia". In less than 24 hours, the group collected more than 12,000 likes. Which is such a loud siren for the alarm that the ruling must hear and react until it is too late. The group can find advice on how and where to go from Croatia. It serves as a kind of support group for all those young people who decided to leave Croatia. My colleagues and colleagues, I ask all of us, is that what we want? Currently, one of the few options is to employ through a measure of professional training without establishing a working relationship for 1600 kuna. I believe that we are all aware that 1600 kunas are not enough for a young person's independent life because we are witnessing daily collection of prices of heating, gas, electricity, food, and all these gatherings do not bypass any of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and thus no young person. I wonder what we get by hiring about 10 kuna an hour? We continue to stay with parents, later marriages, reduced birth and even a decision to start a family. We have heard that the measure we are discussing today employs more than 7,000 young people. And here I must say that the students of the Faculty of Philosophy have rightly warned about what will happen under the law. I'll remind you of a piece of the letter sent to Minister Mrssic. I quote, "What is perhaps the most important law announced cannot reduce unemployment at all, the opposite can only increase it. It allows employers to delegate a certain amount of work to unemployed trainees instead of paying their employees for the same work. Also, even if by such a legal solution we train all unemployed young people in the country, it would not mean that there are jobs for them. The legislative proposal is now tasked with masking the debate on the causes of unemployment in Croatia as well as the reasons for the inability to create new jobs. The intention is to manipulate this law of unemployment, that it is statistically reduced, to fragment categories of unemployment and create new forms of insecure and underpaid work, thus antagonising groups of workers that are then easier to exploit." That's what the students of the Faculty of Philosophy said. And they were absolutely right when they said the law manipulates unemployment without doing anything to ensure the future of young people in Croatia. We need to focus much more on young people and on the perspective of young people in Croatia to prevent brain drains. And is there a long-term sense of measure of 1600 kuna per year? A measure that leads to the return to the Employment Service to get the employer a new intern. The amendments that we are talking about today extend the provisions of the law in the sense that all unemployed who have less than a year’s work experience have the possibility of interning, and that we also extend the possibility of internships to women without working experience. I think it's all just populist moves without the right effect. In conclusion, I would like to point out that it is necessary to take the necessary steps to start the economy, that it is necessary to take care of young people, young families, and not to read in the media how 60 doctors of science leave us because there is no work in Croatia for them. My colleagues and colleagues, if this measure would encourage the economy, I am convinced that we would all clap to the government, but according to the effects and direction we are moving, we will hear it before we hear it in Dinam Stadium. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18331	Thank you. The word came out on behalf of Proposer Minister Miranda Mrsic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18332	Dear Vice President, I really don't understand. Did I sleep over for two years or what? That measure is yours, it's your government you were as spokeswoman as far as I know there and that measure was and then. We did nothing different than realize that in a public administration where it is not possible to hire that it is clear that after a year these young people cannot be employed and it was clear to us that we also have to open a private sector where the possibility of employment is much higher, while realizing at the same time that the traineeship that is possible by law is simply not applicable because companies do not have 50% to pay if the state pays 50%. And what you're quoting was one debate with young people, we've had a lot of debates with young people, and right now we're in one process of agreement between the Ministry of the Ministry, the Croatian Youth Network, about how we're going to design measures just for young people, and not vice versa, to fit the young into measure, but to simply design measures for young people. And I think we'll make some new decisions in that area. But it's really not clear to criticise the measure in which your government did the same in a limited area and we expanded and expanded it and gave it 1600 kuna, at the time you gave nothing but it was absolutely free. So, to criticize that we're paying someone, it's not pay and it can't be pay, it's a fee for those expenses you have because you're going to work. But it wasn't before, in your day it wasn't that either. We've made up our mind, and we've given 1600 kunas. So, I don't understand, but good in politics is all possible and that too. But I say a little dignity in all that we don't criticise any measures. I also said that we had inherited that measure from before, that we had only expanded it and redesigned it as we were going to redesign some measures in a different way, but the measures are there. And as regards the discussion of Agent Calmeta, Article 8 states that the application for the exercise of the right of employers and persons trained to work without a working relationship is to be completed until the date of entry into force of this law, according to the rules applicable to that day, if this law does not provide for a more favourable way." So if someone's in 12 months, and it takes him 24 months to set up an internship and this, it's going to extend to him in 24 months, and that's why we put that provision in place.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18333	Thank you. Next up for debate, Josip Boric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18334	Vice-President, Your Honor, here I was talking today about the number of unemployed, she reached an average somewhere around 1040 a day. It's good, here's the minister coming to the Parliament almost every week. He was last week, and here we have him this week, and I have to admit as a parliamentary representative that he really noticed his efforts as a minister at the Ministry of Labour that I'm not sure if he got to him or if he really did as a minister and wanted him to. If indeed the minister was often in the Parliament is one of the few who here all day defends his actions, I say all day defending his actions. As a doctor, as a specialist, I believe that he was both a good student and a student and that the problem of theory or learning is not a problem for you ministers and I believe that you have been in these nine months and in your ministry and solved it. Indeed you here today, there are few of us, but theoretically the most you know about all these laws you've talked about, both from the retirement work and the employment laws, etc. But maybe we'll agree maybe we won't, theory doesn't solve unemployment, no matter what the effort. Listening to your presentation today, you told us for 25 minutes about the law and active employment measures, and then you finally said all and one bit in one sentence: "Active employment measures will not solve the problem of employment or unemployment.". You've been honest and you've told the truth that's said everything in those 25 minutes in a second, and I'm afraid of a lot of things that have been said in the past nine months. That's why I'm asking the Minister. Why did you take on a role that may not be yours, which may not be yours? That you may be frustrated by this number of unemployment and that with a great number of measures you think you can stop a counter that measures the unemployed until the same concerns those who use their own activities on a daily basis that same dial speeds up to the heat. I mean here at the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Finance. Knowing what I've told you, I'm asking you, did you at least think for a moment in the last nine months that this might not work out for you and that it might be better to give up? Because we are really here in a number of employment debates on the work of a revolutionaryly represented measure. However, when we only touch some of them, such as that famous, famous measure of internship or volunteering, which was to be employed or involved by some 10,000 people, it did not reach that close. When we read, here yesterday, that all one company uses is measure, and thousands are in the same or similar problems. Do you know, Mr. Minister, that the savings of citizens in the 9 months of 2012 were EUR 283 billion, that it was already for 3 billion compared to what we had at the beginning of the year. The biggest growth in 15 years. That the savings are almost 130 billion kunas. That all credits fall to citizens and legal entities of all kinds. Do these data, not just you, but us here too, but the Croatian public, refer to something? Are we ready to accept the claim that this huge tax press and price hike due to record inflation, the collection of all energy at record rates among citizens and entrepreneurs has caused fear for the future and forced them to save everything, and the most kuna. The amount of the investment cycle this year, especially foreign investments, is 4 times smaller than last year, only 154m euros, at least since 1996. Why won't investors invest and create jobs make you a more successful minister? The money as we see it and as I say it has, capital is not the problem. There are a number of incentives, although complicated and perhaps not known enough as you claim, you have simplified procedures, but investors simply do not want to. Is that an accident or not? Gentlemen, the state of fear among citizens and the uncertainty of investors caused by a new set of tax laws, some of which act even retroactively, the largest VAT in the region of 25%, the drastic collection of investment costs, the most expensive energy in the region and Europe according to the standard of living, made us ministers of failure, made you ministers of failure, and those who provided you with their measures, the media Croatia, I say media, not the actual names of super heroes of our time. Currently, the processes of state and bank entry into the assets of the fallen companies, in the property of the citizens in charge, have been announced a property tax. Can we agree that these moves that you announce will end those few brave investors in their intention to survive and work in these areas? We've heard that the young are leaving. And finally, in America, once a year, the president submits a report on the state of the nation, it might be good for us to introduce such practice into this House and do so by sticking to his own words that he has spoken countless times, telling the truth, and not going back to the past. If I had such an opportunity, unfortunately I don't, I'd start by claiming that the state of the nation isn't good, and it doesn't feel good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18335	Thank you, too. Next Domagoj Milosevic, he is gone, losing his right to debate. Ante Babic, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18336	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. The programme of this Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment Encouragement Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law, the Government wants to redefine the notion of an unemployed person without working experience in order to enable professional training and persons who have achieved more than 1 year of training in pension insurance. This right of relief in employment lasts 2 years. I don't know what the difference is because it's the same as before. But the latest data on the number of unemployed today is 324 thousand 990 unemployed. At the end of September, it was completed with 311 thousand and 100 unemployed, which means that the number of unemployed people increased by 13301 in October during the 17 days of October. In view of the fact that out of these 17 calendar days in October there were 13 working days, it turns out that every working day, the number of unemployed has increased by 1023 people, which means that each working hour unfortunately the number of unemployed has increased by 128 people, or if we add it to this session that lasts about 4 hours of some 512 people just today or so. This is a problem that the Croatian public and Croatian citizens expect a serious and thorough debate and urgent measures to stop this accelerant trend of unemployment growth in the Republic of Croatia. If unemployment continues at this pace by the end of the year, the number of unemployed will increase by more than 50 thousand, bringing the total number of unemployed by the end of the year to nearly 380 thousand unemployed, which is not predicted by the greatest pessimists. Thus, in this respect, this government, thanks to its actions or better said in its inaction, will outnumber the indicators in the battle of the unemployed and the most pessimistic forecasts of economic analysts. What I have seen in the Government of the Republic of Croatia programme for this term in economic policy and employment is this: "In the difficult economic crisis facing Croatia it is necessary to start economic recovery and new employment. This goal will be achieved by a combination of economic, structural measures that will say reform and development and social policies through economic growth and new employment." I will also say what they said and those who spoke before me, and I have said in the replica one of my colleagues that in the term of this government, everything that shouldn't fall, and unfortunately much faster than these greatest pessimists predicted, and this is a decline in GDP, a fall in investment, foreign investment, a fall in wages and a fall in consumption. And what's growing? Everything that shouldn't grow is growing, which is unemployment, inflation, prices and taxes. The only possible pact that could reverse these trends would, unfortunately, be the fall of this government which will inevitably happen because it does nothing that would have to stop the negative trends, and it does exactly what should not be done, and that is to reverse trends. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18337	Thank you, too. We have one replica, colleague Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18338	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor. So after nine months, a colleague called on the Government of Kukuriku in the Parliament for the fall of the government after eight years of HDZ rule in which miracles were happening but literally miracles. 33 billion kuna in HAC, 500 million in debt in Gredeli. Is that debt created in Gredell in the last nine months, perhaps? The state of the state-owned enterprises where your people have no public companies in which bankruptcy is not managed, so now you need a colleague Shucker to whisper to you what you will respond to. In 2008, while the whole of Europe was already in crisis, we heard there was no crisis in Croatia and there will be no crisis in our country at all. And now all of a sudden after nine months of trying to get out of this fungi, we now have an invitation for the government to go the best. But it's not the first time today and Bacic's colleague said the best thing is that the government doesn't do anything. It's amazing, but it's really amazing how you have amnesia. After eight years, we've been setting ourselves up like you've left the state as if it were Switzerland and after that we've come, in nine months we've been able to ruin everything, everything's going down. I'm just afraid that one morning I don't wake up and the moon doesn't fall into my yard.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18339	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18340	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Kolar, 9 months, was better said 10 months since the parliamentary elections and the unbelief of HDZ has won the vote. That's what the citizens wanted. She received them on the wings of all that was promised before the elections, as well as in the establishment of a new Croatian government. It is not necessary to amnesty this government, in these nine months a lot has happened that citizens simply do not recognize as their own improvement, but those things that have been said more than once today happen to them, and I would certainly be the happiest that this has not happened. I would certainly be happy among those who would commend the work of this government, but through new investments, new investments and everything that is actually being talked about at the beginning of this government's mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18341	Thank you, too. Next up for debate Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18342	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Here we are in these early hours, not only in the late few we remain discussing such an important topic for Croatian citizens, for a Croatian state such as the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment Encouragement Act. When I read what a young colleague commented, young SDP stormer Hajdukovic, and when I repeat everything that was proclaimed about a year ago, which is to quote, says unlike others, we Kukuriku coalition citizens will not forget the next morning after the election. We offer a policy of structural change, economic recovery, for the ultimate purpose, and that is a better standard of living for citizens. So whether it's a 10-month period, and it's not staring at the very grades of the leading people in Kukurik coalition's improvement in not two years, three years, and even more than that, then I wonder where the reality of these pre-election promises is. 5i also from this plan, which are: investments, industry, exports, innovation, integration. There's only one sixth after this, and that's the questionnaire after that. And we know the amount of investment this year, about 150 million euros. Compared to previous years, it is therefore a constant decline in investment. Industry, where this is, what we're talking about, about industry, in a country where it's almost completely destroyed. Exports, if we count tourism and tourist services on exports then maybe but it's not really there. Innovation, so is TE on coal innovation. And at the end of integration, and there we have received 10 new points from the European Union as a puck, one of the last pucks that the European Union has given us when we join, enter, finally enter, I hope on July 1st 2013. And now we have at the end of a respected and respected minister and colleague and by the profession of Mrsic, who, in such a situation, is completely inverted from what was thought and what might have been intended, so the situation where the fire is being extinguished, when the number of unemployed is growing dizzy, when the industry is not moving from the dead spot, so on. industry, when there are no investments, then here's as an exit to the extreme need to at least offer something to those who are actually the most socially vulnerable, unemployed, young, and then let me say about seasonal farming work, etc. There's this novel called Honora De Balzac, a French writer called "Glass and Misery of the Courtesans". I wouldn't want to offend anyone, but if it were to translate the glare and the misery of the partisans, then this pre-election promise would be that glow, the luxury that's been promised, the better standard of citizens, the higher employment, the growth of industry, the growth of investments, the momentum of economics, and ultimately I don't want to say that this, as I have already stated before, is just the measures that are what they say to save what is being saved. Because when we look at the number of young, educated people who every year would sign that number, which is somewhere around 10,000 young people go abroad. What will be Croatia if it continues in 10 years, will be a nursing home, Europe's largest nursing home. Croatia will be completely destroyed without its identity. There's going to be an ordinary shopping mall, if there's anyone to shop at that shopping mall at all. It is clear that, as already said here, the HDSSB club and those crumbs offered through our distinguished minister are actually crumbs because, as I said, some are also in this 10-month period of time employed indefinitely, but which. For a time HDZ counted its dismissed, or employees who had been fired from the administration or had been removed from the post, he counted them, so he probably kept track of them, and they left it. I'd like to know how many party corn-like employees are employed in that same period, employed, and in which places in the state administration and local administration, local or regional administration. But I don't think I'm gonna get that information. And it's indeterminate. While those others remain, here are these measures, fire measures that will at least try to sort out this truly unsustainable situation in Croatia, not to mention in the state of Denmark. That's why, that glamour and misery, the glow promised, the misery was shown real. Yesterday was the day of the poor, the world day of the poor, I think we have in Croatia what to celebrate, there are many people who can celebrate it, or mark it not fame, but celebration. No matter how I said it, the HDSSB will vote for this law because at least those young people who have not decided to leave this beautiful country, at least those people who are trying to patch up the end with the first to the first in the month, at least they will be at least partially relieved here's the possibility of employment, both seasonally or for those 1600 kuna per year or for three years depending on the professional arrangement and what it takes to do that prescribed internship. Unfortunately, as the minister said, without our medical staff now not to state again which professions, however, the HDZ Club said it would vote in favour of this legislative proposal in the hope that those... would still be launched in order to start with other measures that would be, which would therefore become a cornerstone of industry, exports and innovation. However, what remains of Croatia and where is the remaining development? So Croatia, apart from this big shopping centre of a large department store where imports, where everything is imported into that department store, it remains what has not been left for centuries but for thousands of years and what is good, and where it can move forward and that is our agriculture and our tourism. Unfortunately, we heard about the corn corn coalition's fins yesterday when it came to agriculture. These same farms and farmers are parasites, just fighting and gulping for support and incentives, etc., that's what we've heard, they're parasites of this society. Instead of realizing that our agriculture, so I think of it as a food-processing industry with large freezers, can be a locomotive, and when I say agriculture, I think of Slavonia, Srijem and Baranja first. A Croatian locomotive that can pull all cars behind it. And the Dalmatian part and the coastal part and everything. Unfortunately, about this segment and the possibilities of a million acres of unprocessed surfaces that provide the opportunity to have the luck and the wits of watering large... and by two harvests in Slavonia that we have as Israel has in the desert
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18343	Thanks, buddy. Time.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18344	No one's thinking about it. But here they let our very minister think he'd put out the fire from these little kunas that could be shared with this poor woman.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18345	Thank you. Next up for discussion, Ivan Klarin. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18346	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So this law was passed in May 2012 and I must say that it has fulfilled the purpose, which is to encourage the employment of young people and young people in our country. In young people, a particularly interesting measure of this law is therefore for professional training without a working relationship and this measure has also proved to be the most acceptable in young people, the measure allows for the acquisition of work experience for jobs that they expect after completing their education. The number of 2930 people involved in this programme is in favour of the fact that the measure is of great interest to hire young people because a large part of them could not, unfortunately, find a job that is neither a mistake nor a fault for this ministry, but also for some others, as well as a general economic crisis. The problems that are being solved today to remove these measures that have made it impossible for young people to work, which is why any former, previous employment on the so-called so-called so-called so-called so-called job. jobs of lower complexity during high school or student education. So, in Dalmatia, there is no young man who during the summer season, during schooling either high school or student did not work on any business in tourism whether he was a waiter or selling ice cream on the beach and today I can actually as a young man understand his frustration when he could not apply to such competitions because of that year or more. Here I am during my schooling, doing seasonal jobs, and I've been shopping, and I've been selling ice cream on the beach today, and so I'm going to get a job based on this measure I welcome from the ministry, and I couldn't do it, which would normally be an extra frustration for me. We also have examples from employers, specifically in Sibenik-Knin County, the tax administration has opened a tender, so for the employment of two candidates based on these measures, unfortunately they have succeeded, so only one place to fill, and the rest of the jobs have not been completed. So more than 20 candidates in Sibenik who appeared on the basis of this latest tender by the tax administration, so they failed, failed to get a job. I welcome these measures that are going in the direction, so to train them professionally, there will be no more conditions, therefore, business and lower complexity. Young people have a number of advantages about this, so getting to know a new and perhaps future employer, getting a job experience, so after schooling, someone who's finished will work in the tax administration and will normally get conditions, and eventually we always know that if he's been working in that service for a year, tomorrow when someone's going to retire, on maternity leave, that he's the first option, that person, so the young man who worked in such an institution and such an institution. The number of young people who are unemployed in the Republic of Croatia is really great, we have heard this many times and numbers. This ministry and this government are not at all responsible for this, I am responsible here, so I welcome all the efforts, especially the ministry's efforts and Minister Miranda Mrsic, which are heading towards increasing the number of employees. I have to be aware of the fact that it's not these measures, these 2930 people in the last year wouldn't have found a job. Whose fault are we going to leave that to someone else? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18347	Thank you, too. And finally, on behalf of the promoter, Minister Miranda Mrsic. Here you go, Minister, I hope for a while.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18348	Short. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, what can be summed up from this discussion except for a few discussions that also respected MPs and MPs who stayed after this second debate, I apologize. So, from these discussions, it could be read that the law is good. He's going in the direction he's going, so the law isn't, once again, intonated by opening new places, because that's not his goal. So, the aim of the law is to train people who are currently unemployed at the time when they start opening jobs. On the other hand, it wasn't what was predicted that we would deliver young people to great concerts, that the price of work would fall, that we would give young people to capitalists, etc., so it didn't happen, it's seen from the data that we have. The data are very clear, so far, until 30 September this year, the active employment policy measure has been used by 35,914 people, all with a wave in the field of public works, professional training for work without establishing a working relationship and support for employment and training. So these are also the directions that we will be doing further, as I have announced we will change active employment policies. And on the other hand, I say that we in this government are determined to take measures, to pass laws, not to hide things under the table. As you remember at the beginning of this year we solved this problem which is not related to employment, but is related to the Pension Insurance Act, these are the women who, because of the law's inconsistencies, fell into that process that they could not retire because it was not possible to set up a retirement internship. We solved it once by changing the law. Therefore, we will continue to resolve matters. When we see the problem, we'll solve the problem. I hope that this law will get the support of all clubs because it is aimed at those who at this moment in Croatia need the greatest help, and these are the ones who are at the employment office at this moment, who have no income and at the institution are the only ones they can get, that they can survive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18349	Thank you, Minister. We've exhausted the list, we've completed the debate. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We continue at 15.00 hours with: Final proposal of the Law on Amendments to the Law on compulsory health insurance, emergency procedure, first and second reading of the PZ. No. 175.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18350	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment Encouragement Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, CZ No. 174. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 119 votes, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment Encouragement Act has been adopted, as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18351	My colleagues and colleagues continue. - Final proposal for a law amending the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 175 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received the reports at the session. Does the Proposer want a representative? Minister. Here you go, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18352	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. So before you there is the Law on Amendments to the Mandatory Health Insurance Act. Namely, by decision of the Constitutional Court of 19 July 2012, which ordered that the contested provisions of the applicable law cease to apply until 15 November of this year, so we as legislator arranged the amount of income from compulsory insurance. Namely, acting in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision to make this legislative proposal, which is before you, amend those provisions of the applicable law in a way that insurance companies pay to the insurance companies the income from compulsory liability insurance of 4% of the paid functional premium, insurance against compulsory insurance. How did you get that number? With a clear analysis from 2009 to 2011 we came to the figures that at 4% of the amount to be paid will be 102 million 817 thousand which should be proportionate to the cost of compulsory health insurance for insured persons who were participants in traffic accidents of 106 million. So the ratio of absolute numbers is practically proportional, so we came to an equal percentage of 4%, of course. It is not only that, but it is an obligation for the company to submit, on a monthly basis, the insurance company's obligation to submit, for each accounting period, reports on how to account for and on behalf of the proceeds by the 15th month and, of course, annually until the 30th April of the current year for the previous calendar year. In this way, it is further prescribed that supervision of law enforcement is carried out by the Tax Administration and that the provisions of the General Tax Code apply to the calculation of tightening interest to determine the recovery of several funds. In addition, it is authorised by the Tax Administration to determine the obligation of payment of funds in the prescribed time limit where insurance companies and institutions fail to make a final account of the payment on the one hand and the actual costs on the other hand. This would therefore be about the auto-industry, and we are further in place of the so far organisation of HZZOs of regional units, and new regional building units with the name of the regional office are introduced, and this is for the purpose of further rationalisation of HZZOs. Thank you very much, dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18353	Thank you. Do they want the committee's reporters? Unless we move on to a club debate. On behalf of the SDP representative club Ana Komarić Devčić, she is not there, she is losing her right to debate. On behalf of the HDZ club colleague Zeljko Reiner, on behalf of the club here is a colleague, Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18354	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. My colleague Reiner is not here because of his unscheduled business. He asked me to say something on behalf of the HDZ Club about this bill. So here we have the Constitutional Court's decision saying that we need compensation in car accidents and that money compensated to hospitals that have treated these patients in car accidents 7% of these costs down to 4% means the health care is directly losing 3% of the money and that's the Constitutional Court's decision, and we can even argue about the Constitutional Court's decision, but we can't discuss the decision I don't think we're not legally regulated or legally allowed. Therefore, we need neither to discuss it, but to accept it, so the HDZ club will do so. So we'll accept this Constitutional Court decision, but with one fence. I'm here to say from life experience I'm sure of this data that this isn't a good calculation. Here the Constitutional Court is nothing to blame they simply overlapped the figures. According to this previous account, 7% meant, say, 100 kuna, but hospitals invoiced 60 kunas and normally 160 kunas were overlapped in the constitutional court, these insurance businessmen proved that no invoices were sent to 60 kunas and that the Constitutional Court, and what it could judge, was in their favor, and that's the case. The task is to honor Mr. Minister at the Ministry that the wrong system of invoices in hospitals and in the health system in general, that means here these 60 are not even roughly represented all costs resulting from the treatment of patients in car accidents, in rehabilitation. These patients come in and after three years give me a brain CT scan because my head hurts as a result of the injury in some car accident. The health care system has not paid so much attention to it, it is organised and it is the ministry's task to deal with this situation in a way that hospitals are better invoiced both in the long and long term and to get their money. Because in my opinion, this doesn't deserve just 7% as much as it used to be, at least twice 14%, that's what's real and most real. Now the question is, what is the lack of this bill? The downside is that further taking money to the health system. My colleagues and colleagues, this government took the health system without any politicizing what Mr. Mrsic, the previous minister said, let's take numbers. 4 billion kunas directly, 2 million 400 directly, decreases the percentage for the contribution plus a billion and 800 also directly but on other grounds, 4 billion. If we count that the annual cost growth rate in healthcare is 5 to 10%, we take what is the health budget in the Republic of Croatia, that is 23 billion, it is not difficult to calculate that a billion, two kunas should be raised annually for the price of health care in order to keep it on the same basis, at the same level of quality. If we take this general increase in the cost of health care and add to that what is more Croatian specificities, then there will be a loss in healthcare at the end of the year, in my opinion it must be 4-5 billion and this loss is now hidden in hospital budgets, however, it will have to be shown at the end of the year as a total loss of the Croatian state, and that money will have to go to the stock exchange in London or Washington or Japan on interest since it is, and Croatia will have to pay all of this together again. I draw these conclusions from the simple fact that I do not think Croatia will succeed in carrying out the payments of 2 billion from the base of taxes that would be paid, but not in total, one part of the health care, etc. It means that they will not be able to compensate for health care as it has been said on the surface that these 4 billion will be compensated in a different way. It's not going to compensate, and I'm saying there's been new costs, we all know how much electricity, water, phone, gas and everything. The Honored Mr. Minister has agreed in some way to be a minister and in these conditions, I wish him all the luck of being a successful minister, but I believe that under these conditions he will not be celebrated, and it is visible gentlemen who wanted me to admit it and wanted Mr. Minister to admit it or not, it is already visible today at every turn. All investments were suspended in healthcare, what we saw two, three places where something opened, say the Center for tumours in Zagreb, done by the old government, were some disputes about opening and costing the performer. The minister opened it and thank God, okay, it's a commendable thing, but it's not a new investment. This... on Rebra also commendable, but it's not a new investment, it's the previous minister decided we're going... to Rebro etc. So there's no investment in health care, it's about what you say about keeping your skin naked, keeping the existing system on your feet working, not on your healthy feet, but in any way, but it's gonna be hard to maintain because you're reducing your employment in health. Some hospitals are already shooting at seams because of labour shortages because gentlemen, no compensation is granted for new labour for those who have retired. I'm not taking the new workforce, but for those of you who've retired, here's what I'm going to tell you. Here is the minister, too bad there is no... Minister, I was the director of the hospital in Split, the former ministry approved almost the last day of office, Milinovic signed some 140 employees on that basis 2:1. So two of them retired, and one of them is, now we're looking for one instead of those two, and that's never been realized in a Split hospital. And now imagine it is in other places. So it will be difficult to maintain the level of health care and health care and health care system as a whole with this way of funding. We'll have to face this truth, we won't be so far away for a few months. You take this as a well-intentioned debate and talk about naked facts and nothing more. As for some final thought as to what we should do here, what we should do, that's a conversation for another opportunity, I would say for an individual debate and within another point of the agenda, and I'll tell you right now the skeleton and the basic policy that my opinion should be carrying out. Structural changes in health care should have been made, which would mean a real reduction in costs in the health system in the Ministry of Health, which would mean a real reduction in costs and then should not even reduce the salaries of workers because they are smaller and even less satisfied because they have less salaries, less rights, etc., but should have been reduced in real terms and that the level of health and health of people in Croatia should not be compromised, that they are practically left at the same height. I think it was possible, but I'm telling you there's not a moment or a point of the agenda that I'd go further into this debate right now. Thank you, gentlemen, for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18355	Thank you, too. Next on behalf of the HNS club, Liberal Democrats Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18356	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. One of the amendments to the mandatory health insurance laws relating to decisions of the Constitutional Court. The HNS Club will support these amendments, of course, because absolutely respecting the Constitutional Court decisions, but also reading only the reasoning of the Constitutional Court's decision is quite clear, but also obtaining one general message very good, not to say in fact excellent, in a way that one disproportionate between the real costs resulting from the car accident and the costs incurred through the compensation procedure from the insurance companies, one message indicating that, on other issues that this High House regulates and the Ministry of Health or the Government are really taking care of what is the basic objective of the coalition government, which is the management of a real economy, an economy in which the needs are defined, facts, material evidence, arguments of those figures that are not lumpy and decisions and laws and regulations that define life and needs, especially when we speak and take care of costs. So, this law of the HNS supports, but it also stresses that the lesson in this Constitutional Court decision can refer to everything we do, we also propose that the government do so in the right direction to take real care of real costs, real life and needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18357	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18358	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. It is as the representatives of other clubs have already said about the law that was provoked by the Constitutional Court's decision. The Constitutional Court's decision is that we can't dispute and we don't have to dispute, there's another part of the government, but that doesn't mean we can't comment on it. What exactly is this about? About the fact that insurance companies in Croatia have so far paid 7% flat-rately, 7% of mandatory car insurance premiums, so they've had a lot to do, and the Constitutional Court has made a decision that there's really no point in paying it, that this bill shows no justification, and now before us the law by which insurance companies pay 4% advances, so the advance, and then the rest of the bill on a monthly basis so that they can finally pay the costs, pay only the costs, and there's the end. There's no cost above cost. If they paid for something more, they'll come back. It is fair and it is in line with all the civilization achievements it is only a little awkward that it applies to insurance companies so that these kinds of provisions apply to banks, to Leasing companies, so to all those who have money, and when it comes to the fact that such a thing should be applied to Croatian citizens who do not have money, then things are more problematic. Croatian citizens pay a variety of cobwebs for which they mostly don't know what's in them. Tv, electricity, heating, airbreathing, airbreathing and stuff. That doesn't bother anyone, and neither does our Constitutional Court. Citizens and authorities, I don't talk about this government specifically, every government and executive and judicial failure. Insurance companies are not factors that can be skipped, they are huge, significant factors that may at present have even found themselves in some problems and of course they need help, so they are pillars of our society. In those pillars is our money built in. The Institute will also reduce revenue in this way, not disastrously, but it will decrease somewhat. The Institute's revenues decreased with a reduced health contribution rate of 2% at the start of the government's mandate, which is already a catastrophic reduction that should have helped the economy to create jobs. From this pay phone, I said I'd apologize publicly if any of the jobs were opened from that help. It didn't open, of course, either one of them, they closed up a number. Afterwards, it did not help resuscitate the economy with the pockets of those who already had pockets. So the reduction in contributions proved to be where it was directed as a failure. The government is threatening, promises depend on whose perspective it will continue to reduce contributions. The health system has faced 2.5 billion new problems. Now he's going to face 50, 100 million additional problems. If the contribution is further reduced it will face new problems, and the system is asked by doctors, there is also a minister doctor, the system is close to a crisis and chaotic state, if not on the exhale. Who's suffering here? Well, those who can't help themselves suffer. So, citizens, insurance companies who can't go to a simple operation in Austria, have to do whatever they have to do. Their rights are shrinking, let's not wake up children. Every time something like this happens less money, less music, I can't stay the same, and the money that goes into the system is smaller. And in fact, a man wonders how all the measures he weighs or whose intent it is to benefit those who have, from court to government, any other. You were saying something about the character of the government and where this country is going and it needs an intention. And I'm saying all of this inextricably the value and validity of the Constitutional Court's decision. She's who she is, but she's also the product of a certain social climate. The second part of the amendment to this law speaks of the amendment of the nomenclature, so that the area will no longer be regional but regionally, or countyally, there will be no more but regional institutions will be organised. I do not quite understand what this means regionally in this particular context, are these statistical regions that we have reported, some other statistical regions that have been so far, or are these geographical regions, or are they historical regions? I don't know what the regions are, it doesn't say in reason, I guess the minister knows what it's about, I don't suppose, I know for sure because he wrote that law. So you'd ask for an explanation if possible? So this law cannot be accepted otherwise, because the court said so. The question is whether those 4% are a real bill and if all those wolves are there, all of them are, but they've also given sheep in number, which I'm not quite sure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18359	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDSSB club Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18360	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, here I was going to do a replica, lift up a plate for my colleague Vuljanić's replica. In fact, what is said regionally, in this legislative proposal, this is actually a colleague of Vuljanic, what is unfulfilled, and this is the statistical division of Croatia to at least 4 regions, actually real regions. So it's not the county, it doesn't apply to that so-called. The region in terms of the county than right in the region, so where the centres are at least for now or figure out, apply as today Split, Osijek, Rijeka and Zagreb clearly as the centre and capital, the metropolis of the Croatian state. However, let us move on to the content of this legislative proposal, which mentions, in this assessment of the situation and decisions of the Constitutional Court, and in connection with the current law, Article 53(1), where the level of 7% of the outstanding functional insurance premium is from car responsibility. So, that's what, as far as I understand insurance companies are paying, I would say somehow at the expense of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, and in connection with the treatment and costs of the treatment of our citizens who are suffering from car accidents. Whether or not the calculation of these 4% or earlier 7% has been made by an exact or accurate method, I can hardly argue, as my colleague Vuljanic, that the sum or the percentage, which then makes the sum of the money, which is calculated as a functional premium, is now difficult to figure out. And I am directly involved, so involved in cases or in the process of treating people after car accidents or accidents, to know how much, depending on the severity of the injury, and the duration of treatment and how expensive treatment, diagnostics, recovery, rehabilitation of such insurance companies to say. At times, it seemed to me that, after treatment has been completed, both primary and secondary, health care has done its job, that these costs are increasing enormously, mainly when they happen, and that is almost 100% of the amount of court cases of determining reduction in general life or the assessment of disability in people who have died in car accidents. It's a lot of medical tests, let's just take a mallet neck injury. Here we are doctors, and many others who have had a car accident know that this is hard to prove and how many searches, so all the way up to the magnetic resonance that, and all the funds are being served, and to say those who want to prove that their market injury, in order to increase from the insurance company the payout, therefore the sum, the payment of the money for that injury, that is, the result of the injury. And finally, here we are talking about this, a functional premium insurance against mandatory insurance against auto responsibility. So I wonder, is there a legal provision that a similar functional premium may be directed in another direction, not only towards the Croatian Health Insurance Institute? Many patients, hospitalized, and actually injured, injured in car accidents become disabled workers. What is the number of those who are considered to be working after a car accident? What is the number of people who have a clear disability after a car accident? This part does not fall within the scope of HZZO, but HZMO or is headed towards the Ministry of Economy. So it's convenient to see if there's a so-called. a functional premium, therefore, not only for HZZO towards HZZO, but according to this direction, to the Ministry of Economy or to the Pensions Fund when permanent consequences arise in terms of reducing working activity or disability. Here are the sums listed on page 5, where it is clear that the difference between 4% and 7% of the amount of the functional premium will therefore vary from some 77 million kuna. In order for there to be no time or space in which any other measure applies, we need to adopt this law and bring it to half of November this year. And here's what it said would be timely upon these constituency benches of ours this legal proposal. Therefore, the income of compulsory health insurance is counted in Article 1 and this is under paragraph 3 under point 10.So these are the incomes from compulsory insurance from motor responsibility with all those other incomes and in the first place are the contributions of compulsory health insurance, then contributions to health insurance of health care at work, etc. Now it's clear why three days ago in multiple television shows the data from the profits of the insurance companies was presented. So starting with our Croatian insurance, so the sun, Agram, the Adriatic as if everything weren't called I won't advertise anyone here, it's not right, but it was quite clear that it was a little bit in the function of this current legislative proposal, so to see exactly how much of our insurance is... However, a second question arises, so why, when so much profit is Croatia's insurance why sell Croatia's insurance? And in which there were clear rumors, announcements and intentions of this government to sell Croatian insurance and Croatian postal bank, if the profit is evident, we saw it clearly and in the media mainly in electronics and written that it is measured in hundreds of millions of kunas and in billions of total insurance, and individually in hundreds of millions of kunas. I will not specify the amounts that were listed there for each insurance individual. Given that according to this Constitutional Court decision, the deadline for the adoption of a new law or a new legislative proposal expires in half of November of this year, I think that all together as well as the HDSSB club, we will accept this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18361	Thank you, too. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first one was Walter Boluncic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18362	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, fellow MPs. Well, at this point, I reported to HZZO maybe not directly to the bill's amendments, but to the law as sure as that. After the event, I received enquiries from a certain population and health care rights. Namely, regular students in the Republic of Croatia as members of the insurance family are entitled to health insurance through family members, but if that student registers outside the country as a regular student, then I am talking about a regular student who studies outside of Croatia in this case, he is not treated as a joyous student and he cannot be provided with health insurance through a member of his family, which is a problem for them, because then Malta doesn't have to apply as unemployed persons, which is, first of all, not least, the fact that it's not the fact that someone who is a regular student and, let's say, especially at senior years of study outside of the country sometimes, especially if it's about music that good students who got a scholarship are treated unemployed. It seems to me that this question probably concerns the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports where it should be defined that if someone is a regular student has a certificate of regular study and from an external institution means universities outside the Republic of Croatia that they have the right to health insurance as a member of a family of insurance companies. There are many such cases, many of our students can study Ljubljana, Trieste, Vienna, etc. And the only way I'm saying that they have health insurance... they sign up as unemployed, which is absolutely wrong. So here I would ask perhaps the ministry that perhaps together with the Ministry of Science, education sees the problem of these people who once again mention regular students either pre-graduate or graduate studies just as they study outside Croatia and I think they should certainly exercise all the rights to health insurance, and through members of their family as they had in case they were regular students in Croatia. So it's about that right, not the right to some scholarship or something. This would actually be more of a question or a proposal to the ministry, that along with the Ministry of Education because it seems to me to me to my questions to one and the other ministry was determined, it was not exactly known what the status of those students was. So let's say HZO transferred the ball to the Ministry of Science, and this said HZO should know. I think that's a very important question. If, by entering the European Union, this issue is resolved... 27 countries, but let us not forget that many of our students outside the European Union, in the United States, Canada, New Zealand, etc., which should be covered. So they are probably obliged in the country where they go to pay or gain some of their insurance, but they spend several months and are citizens of the Republic of Croatia with residence in Croatia. They should be able to obtain health insurance as family members, therefore, on a regular basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18363	Thank you, too. Further for the individual debate, Anna Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18364	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So here's not much interest in discussing this law, but I can't resist saying a few words. In fact, this law goes in an emergency procedure, which is logical in view of the short period of time that the Constitutional Court has given its decision to comply with these provisions with the Constitutional Court's decision. But in addition to what is in line with the Constitutional Court's decision, we have several other articles in the amendment that are not actually in the Constitutional Court's decision but are still going in this shortened procedure. It seems irrelevant, but let's start from what the Constitutional Court said first, it may not be enough even in the explanation highlighted that the war was actually this constitutional decision, and then we won't get into the percentage of whether it's 4, 7% or 6%, it probably calculated well. However, a series of decisions are made by the constitutional court. Given that this law states that one of the incomes of health insurance and the income from compulsory insurance of automotive liability but as compensation for damages caused to the institution in cases where persons who are owners or users of insurance are treated. The basic principle is to compensate for the damages that cannot be earned, so that the damage that is real damage can be obtained and therefore the Constitutional Court has said that it should be handled in such a way. The ministry predicted this as a collection of advances, which will then be subsequently accounted for in order to bring about the amount of real damage. Therefore, we have already discussed on the board that perhaps in this paragraph 3 of Article 53, we should make it more clear that these four payments of 4% that this is an advance, so we have in some way suggested that the revenues referred to in point (10) of this article are paid to the insurance company of 4% as an advance in order to be absolutely clear and unequivocally accounted for later. There's so much about it. And now about this part of the amendments that have nothing to do with the Constitutional Court's decision and which we have heard about all sorts of magic and speculation about what it would mean to change the term in the region in several articles. If we had that in two readings, we might be able to discuss it. Which is the purpose of this I personally do not see the absolute purpose of this amendment to the law, and I do not think we should change the laws needlessly unless the amendment of this law prejudges a couple of excellent political issues, which is the regionalisation of Croatia. So the fact is that today we have in the legislation of the political and administrative structure in the Republic of Croatia municipalities, so local and regional, i.e. the area unit of self-government and it is the only place where it is defined as such. But this law doesn't necessarily have to be bound by the law, so when it says it has these branch units, it doesn't matter if they're going to be for one county, two or five counties, this law doesn't bind that other law. If the ministry thinks it binds it then it will also tie it up as regionally as it would tie it up in the area because the law speaks of regional (area) units of local self-government. Nowhere, but nowhere, except the statistical regions which are now established, and by the decision of the Bureau of Statistics, or the Director of the Statistical Office as two statistical regions, there is absolutely no further determination of that concept. I therefore warn that if it does not prejudge, and it is not good to change the law by something that will only be discussed and passed, then that amendment of the law has absolutely no purpose and purpose unless you think it is a more beautiful word, a more Croatian word regional than a regional one. I don't think so, but good. And there's something else I'd like to warn you about, which is these criminal provisions, so it seems illogical to me, there may be some reason, but I can't find it. So here you're talking about penalties for a legal person if they don't make payments and for a responsible person unless they make payments. In these ranges, they are multiple, as is common, multiple sentences for a responsible person than for a legal person. However, in the absence of a report of the annual and monthly report, the sentence for the legal person is between 5,000 and 100,000, and the penalty for the person responsible is between 5000 and 20,000, so the maximum for the person responsible is 5 times smaller, and the minimum penalty is identical, which may be the case if the offence is deemed to be so minor, then the judge for the infringements shall measure the minimum penalty, both to the legal person and to the person responsible, the penalty of 5 thousand kuna. I don't see the logic, and I don't see any reason because everywhere the responsible person is being punished for less than a legal person, and in this case you're going to bring a real judge for violations that must apply the law into the situation that for a mild violation for which one insurance company, therefore not to any powerless and insolvent legal person has imposed a minimum penalty of 5 thousand kuna, so there was a very mild deed, and you have to set a fine of 5 thousand kuna for the responsible person. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18365	Thank you, too. We have one replica registered to your exhibit. Comrade Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18366	Thank you very much. My fellow Lovrin you have well noticed that somehow the Croatian word is being replaced with regional, but this really isn't about counties such as regional or regional self-government, this is really about some imaginary regions, so far imaginary, for which HDSSB stands. So we hope that only the beginnings are actually making administrative and administrative divisions of Croatia into 4 or 5 regions. One of them would be the one in socialism, perhaps these promoters know better, the community of Slavonia and Baranja municipalities as it was before the war, whether based in Osijek or the community of Dalmatian municipalities or the archdiocese of Đakova-sjestska jest. It's the same as the community of Slavonia and Baranja municipalities. Although Zadar does not belong to this archdiocese of Split, he is under the patronage of the Vatican directly, so there could be no such application. So this is about this regional side, not our Croatian area so-called. a word in the area, but here you really don't think of the county or 20 counties as 20 district self-government, let's say, God give it to the region, and we will do it, Slavonia, Baranja and Srijem, and then some kind of Dalmatia, central Croatia and Zagreb as the metropolis, yes. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18367	Thank you, too. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18368	My colleague Grubisic, however much you came up with and wanted your regionalization as you call it, do you really think that in an emergency procedure in one of the amendments to the Legal Health Insurance Act can decide and discuss the political administrative structure of the Republic of Croatia, which is a couple of excellence, I said a political question. And even less do you imagine that the Minister of Health would change the law to please you and give you indications of that regionalization and somehow walk in there? I don't think that's the case, but I think the minister could explain a lot better what he's been up to on this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18369	Thank you. Next individual debate of Biljana Borzana. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18370	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, Assistant Minister. Here I will agree to part of Mrs. Lovrin's debate, in this first section regarding the Constitutional Court's decision on emergency reading. It is not just a reason and a deadline, I would say that reason and logic is common sense states that there is no need for us to discuss in two readings something that is the Constitutional Court's decision and that in the end we cannot and should not change because it is based on figures and logical. As for this second part, therefore, a lot of controversy yesterday and on the Committee on Health and Social Policy somewhat and in the media has caused a change in the structure of the HZZO, and this change relates to rationalisation and regional structure. So, instead of the 20 district units so far, as they have been in the county, we will have 4 regional units, i.e. regional offices of the Health Insurance Office. The other regional units will be under the authority of the regional and all together under the authority of the HZZO. Here by the opposition we've had the opportunity to hear that they don't see the need for any change in that regard. But I absolutely disagree with that for no more reason. Anyone who has any experience and knowledge of governance, and doesn't even have to have it, but he's thinking it's perfectly clear that HZZO isn't currently working in a way that citizens experience it as a service that quickly and qualityly performs its services. Also, in financial terms, it is a huge burden for the state budget, so let me remind you that at one point in the last term, the finance minister was thinking of completely removing HZO from the budget to make the financial situation in the country much better, since it really is about billions of debts. So, obviously, the need for change is very much there and it is important, therefore, to do a reconstruction as soon as possible so that indeed those who are users, therefore citizens, as well as those who work in this system, feel that they are doing a better, better, better and faster job. Also, in the area offices, although some have tried to create an impression that these smaller offices in smaller cities will now be left without certain ingenuity, so they will feel less important, I would say exactly the opposite. They will be relieved of that administrative part of the work that will take place at the regional centre, and they will have more opportunity to deal with citizens and their needs, so they will indeed be so entitled to service. Also, this will achieve a better flow of information, a better connection because the current, precisely weak connection and poor flow of information, I would say as if there were, as 20 small countries in one country have been painted, poorly connected, uninformed, and thus the service itself was as it was. With this, the new structure should change very much, so in a good way. Also, so far in hospitals, for example in Sibenik, or in the Directorates of Forgive HZZO in Sibenik, or in Dubrovnik or not in Nasice, there was no information or ingenuity about what was happening in their hospitals. Now, however, regional centres will take more care of this, and that the needs for change are important in this regard. I think he's saying enough that the hospital system spends about 10 billion kunas a year on the budget, for example. For hospital, hospital protection control in the HZZO system we have only 2 controllers, and for family medicine nearly 200. So, surely there is a need, and better supervision, and better control, but also better advice on how to be as high-quality a service in the hospital system as possible and to take better care of how funds are spent in the end line and resources. So, given the difficulties so far in functioning and in view of the need for change, and this important change, I absolutely support the way that HZZO is proposed to function in the next period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18371	Thank you, too. We have a replica, Anna Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18372	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So here's my colleague Borzan, for example. I don't know where you have the information, I guess you have some privileged information, because, for example, I haven't read anywhere under this law that from now on, it's going to be 4 regionals, something center, as it's now called, so what's a structure unit, it's going to be 4 regionals, and 20 areas. You know that, I don't know how, I guess the minister told you, but it doesn't say in the light of the law. If there are going to be some regional units then they won't be under the law, because now these areas are changing into regional ones, and then what's going to be is going to be the way you say some 4 regionals are going to be. In some cities others will remain, and what will they be, as they will be called, where will the citizens go? There is no such thing as this amendment to the law because these regional terms change regionally. Well, it's because we don't even have an explanation, because we're enchanting some future political structure of the Republic of Croatia through this law. I said that maybe if he was in 2 readings that part, so we don't question what's going on with the Constitutional Court's decision, then we could discuss it that way. So we could discuss it, for example. that what you have just said, and it does not say in reason, means that, not something will be rationalized, but one stage will be introduced, so there will be some in the cities and places, for example, in Slavonski Brod and let's say that the famous region will be in Osijek, and there will be this republic. So it's going to be 3 degrees, not 2 as we are now. How it's going to rationalize that's the question. If we could discuss this in detail, then we would probably get information from Mr. Minister about the number of expected rationalisations, how many departures a person will be employed in control, in inspection services, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18373	Thank you. We have an answer, Biljana Borzana. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18374	Here, Mrs. Lovrin, I don't blame you for not knowing these things. Let me, as chairman of the Health Committee, follow a little more which acts are adopted in health care, statutes, among other things the Statute of the HZZO, to follow the media a little more on this subject, so I may know more, but these are not any privileged information. You can get all that information online, but you don't follow it that's not even your job at the end of the line.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18375	Thank you. And next in individual debate Boro Grubisic- here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18376	Thank you very much. I later came forward for the debate just offered the exhibit and the replicas of the lady, the distinguished colleague Anna Lovrin with whom he very often agreed in many discussions. However, this time, a colleague, a distinguished colleague of Biljana Borzana, made some arguments that I am agreeing with this time, for a great miracle and extraordinaryly, this time. I'm between two vas now, Anne Lovrin and Biljana Borzana. Well, let me explain a little bit, what I may not say is unclear, but what is said to me in the HDSSB is not to think that it would be the expression of some dawn announcement and some real regionalisation of Croatia to the administrative administrative region of the Republic of Croatia or to return to the community of Slavonia and Baranja, based in Osijek, central Croatia with its headquarters I do not know, in Zagreb, Varazdin where it will be the first to determine there and there will be, or the Primorje-Gorski, Istria with Rijeka, Split-Dalmatia without Zadar clearly etc. So maybe termology is a little strange, regional and regional, and it's mixed up there, because so far we thought it was one and the same, regional and regional self-government, so it's considered a county. If you might use a multi-area term then that might be the right thing to do. Now as multi-area or multi-regional sounds, I don't know what that would look like either. But it's really a mess, you've noticed. I do not have the illusion that this is any announcement, any announcement of any really serious, serious administrative and administrative reshuffle of the Republic of Croatia, but he will follow without worry.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18377	Comrade Grubisic, two minutes for the replica have passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18378	It's not a replica, it's a law show.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18379	Start with an individual discussion, start with the topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18380	So, explaining what this region is, and what it is...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18381	Please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18382	Yeah, yeah, it's just the theme of HZZO's office. So, regional, multi-area or I don't know which one. Therefore, I will not talk about these HZZO offices because you and the statistical regions have been appointed when you were in power by those three illogical ones, now we have two, but there will be five, so however you turn, Ms. Biljana Borzana, and you too, Mrs. Lovrin, will be five and very soon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18383	Thank you. We have a replica of our colleague Borzan.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18384	Here is my colleague Grubisic, so I believe that whoever runs a particular system has the right to determine how he thinks it is best that the system works, so there is no need to see in this any division of Croatia in the political, administrative, statistical sense however. So it's about the directorship of HZZO, the minister determined the way they think it's best that the system works to work out how it should be so regionally arranged. Whether the term is regional, in the area we don't see at all any significant difference as you call yourself a regional party would be an expression that you're a regional party that's not the same to me, it doesn't mean the same to me, but here. I don't think it's necessary to discuss it at all right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18385	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18386	Mrs. Borzan, you are already the second term of attorney, so I do not understand that in all documents of the Croatian Parliament, the Government and all possible documents are written by the regional or regional self-government, which is one and the same, and it is actually about the county. So I don't understand why she uses both regional and regional when she has county administration or self-government. why do we even use the word both regional and regional when it is neither an area nor a region but is a county and it is an administrative and administrative unit in the Republic of Croatia. There are 20 plus City of Zagreb that counts as county and nothing else. And what you're saying is that there is no indication, so there is no good for you, but maybe it's a little bit of hope for us, and we're going to try to make it a great trail and air towards finally a fair division of Croatia to regions that will then mean a reduction of numbers and counties and certain municipalities to finally and in that part make order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18387	Thank you, too. And finally on behalf of Prime Minister Rajko Ostojic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18388	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues at a great debate not only about this law but about a broader debate. Thank you for your understanding of the emergency procedure because, as Mrs. Lovrin said, the basic principle of compensation is, of course, that's why we didn't make any money, and that's why we went to the 4% approximation. Croatia is undoubtedly a beautiful country but the shape we have, we know that 19 counties are cross-border, bordering with other countries. As of 1 July, we will not border because we will be part of the EU but will border that is second, cross-border. That's a fact. The fact is that you all know that you have to have tools of governance not the authorities, but tools of management of the reingerence HZO natural drain from 1.1. loses as many as 200 people and this is by me and by us are not the same as the area and regional ones and is not an administrative political issue but only the management tools as the representative Grubišić said in the end case Zadarska archbishop is under the authority of the Vatican, our state, our archdiocese, our Zadranke and Zadrani. So it's not an administrative question. We have two amendments, the first amendment we accept from the SDP counseling club, the second amendment also to the Committee on Legislatives who has already said excellently Mrs. Lovrin so we are changing the fee in advance of the fee, means not the advance but the advance of exactly what Mrs. Ana Lovrin said. And that would be all ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18389	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18390	The full amount of cash amounts shall be fully aligned with the General Tax Law. The tax administration that's great, you see the IRS is in charge of order, and she's set it up for us, and we've stressed they have management tools to do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18391	Thank you, Minister. This is what we're done with. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I thank the minister with the associate.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18392	Let's go next. Final draft law amending the Law on compulsory health insurance, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 175, the debate on the final bill is closed. The government of the Republic of Croatia accepted the amendment submitted by the Committee on Law, and the SDP MPs' club withdrew its amendments. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There is. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes, 90 votes in favour, 30 against and 3 abstentions have been passed the Law amending the Mandatory Health Insurance Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18393	And we move on to - Proposal for a Law amending the Act of Conduct and construction conditions to encourage investment, first reading of the PZ No. 170 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. My colleague Lovrin, if you'll excuse me, I'd like to read it all the way. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs, the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Here you go, Deputy Minister Ana Dark Taritash. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18394	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. We have before us a proposal for a law on amendments to the Law on Conduct and Construction Conditions to encourage investment. This amendment and the amendment refers to the harmonisation of this law with the General Administrative Procedure Act, the replacement of the term of the Ministry and the amendment of the terms of criminal provisions in infringements and what is most important, which is that the deadline for the application of this Act is extended from the end of the year to 30 June next year and 30 June next year is the deadline for why we expect the adoption of a new Law on Spatial Planning or Construction in which we will install both this law and all the good measures in it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18395	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? If not, we'll move on to a club debate. The first is on behalf of the SDP club Vedran Babic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18396	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Act on Construction Procedures and Conditions for Investment Encouragement entered into force on 25 June 2009 and, for the purpose of encouraging investment in the area of construction, the issue of works for the construction, use and disposal of buildings for which a local permit and approval of the main project is issued under the Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, as well as the implementation of administrative and inspection supervision. The objectives of this law are: to enable the start of the construction of economically significant buildings within a short period of time, or 45 days from the date of submission of an orderly application for a building solution; to enable the involvement of public authorities in the preparation of the project documentation before applying for a solution; to increase the responsibility of the participants of the construction, in particular the designers and investors during the preparation of the project documentation; to organise the competent administrative bodies of the regional and local self-government units to conduct procedures and issue solutions in due time; to increase the coordination of competent public authorities involved in the process of issuing the solution; to monitor and monitor the process of issuing works for the construction and sanctioning ineffectiveness of the proceedings. From the point of view of the profession, they can freely conclude that the adoption of this law is probably the most important objective, which is to reduce the time limit for the adoption of the permit, i.e. the building solution to the acceptable deadline, to a maximum of 45 days from the date of submission of the orderly application. Unfortunately, this law did not meet all its expectations, namely 400 solutions issued in the first year after the law was passed confirms that fact. The global crisis and our unpreparedness to respond to the same main reason is why it has not fully fulfilled its purpose. The last amendment of the law... and the conditions of construction to encourage investment from November 2010 extended the validity of the same law by two years, i.e. until 31 December 2012. Today, we also have a proposal to extend the validity of this law until 30 June 2013 which can have a particularly positive impact on the acceleration of capital flow and the promotion of the increased direct investment in the area of construction and should continue to ensure the same legal conditions by that deadline. Further, other changes to the laws are of a technical nature and are in line with the law on the formation and division of the ministries and other bodies of the state administration which is prescribed that the Ministry of Environmental Protection, Spatial Planning and Construction ceases its work, and that its tasks for the administrative areas of spatial planning and construction are taken over by the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning. It is also necessary to comply with the provisions of the applicable law with the law on general administrative procedure and with the decision on the harmonisation of the law of the Republic of Croatia with the criminal law, which requires the obligation of professional holders to make regulations to avoid overlapping legal descriptions of offences and criminal offences in the preparation of draft rules containing criminal provisions. Finally, the SDP Representatives' Club will support this proposal for a law amending the law on conduct and conditions of construction to encourage investment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18397	Thank you too, colleague. On behalf of the HNS club, Liberal Democrats Ivica Mandic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18398	Mr. Vice President, the esteemed Deputy Minister of Spatial Planning and Construction. This law, which is the subject of today's debate and the proposal for its amendments, relates to the 2009 and 2010 legislation. These changes that are ahead of us are not major changes, but they correspond roughly to the reality in which these changes occur. Some of the changes are purely technical, some of the changes are harmonisation, but in essence this law, like us as a club of HNS, we will unconditionally support because all activities and any improvements to the law and as well as the new laws that we make in the House, which are heading towards the regulation of the clarity of the law, whose aim is to facilitate procedures, obtain the necessary documents, or help invest in the economy. The new law also achieves better efficiency. The analysis of the results of the application of the law, as well as the monitoring of the situation in the field of construction and spatial planning, clearly indicates that it is of great importance to adopt the proposed law. This law also indirectly affects the acceleration of the flow of capital and the promotion of original investments in the area of construction. The Law on Construction Procedures and Conditions for Investment Encouragement, National No. 127/2010., which is in force until 31.12., was proposed by this law to extend it and its validity was until 30.06.2013 with the same legal conditions of construction secured. I must be responsible and objective in bringing out the fact that one very large obstacle to the realization of projects i.e. The investment makes the preparation of documentation, as they call paperwork in the people of miles. It is sometimes a major brake, and sometimes it makes it impossible to launch investments until the necessary documentation is issued. It is necessary to continue to take great care of the protection of the most valuable Croatian resource, and this is the space and work to a significant extent to reduce the procedures in obtaining the necessary documents. It is important to point out that the law applies only to buildings whose construction required a location permit, and after the location permit to take place to confirm the main project. This law did not refer to family buildings up to 400 m squares as well as agricultural facilities up to 600 m square and not to important strategic, key infrastructure projects in the Republic of Croatia. The aim of the law is to reduce the time of issue of the necessary permits. Articles 3 and 4 are bound and harmonised under the Part-Corruption and Design Act of the Ministrys and other central authorities of the State Administration NN 150/2011. and 22/2012. Under the regulation, the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning is given the authority and authority, what was once within the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Planning. In addition, the proposed law in Article No. The 5th law in question is in line with the General Administrative Procedure Act. It is important here that this article makes significant progress on the hands of applicants in the submission of the orderly documentation. If the competent authority of the state administration does not respond within 8 days then it has previously been considered a negative response. On this occasion, the applicant has the right to directly appeal to the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction, and that time, the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning directly decides on it. It is also important to have certain sanctions against state administration authorities which do not carry out operations within the time limit. I think it's certainly a good thing, and this way, it significantly speeds up the process of coming up with the necessary documentation to build and basically helps invest more significantly in construction. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. Here to briefly recapitulate that this law under number 1 is coordinated in part with the work of the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning, under 2nd, that the extension of the time limits of this law is until 31 June 2013 and that this part is related to the administrative procedure. I would like to conclude that we as a HNS club will fully support this proposal, and I am certainly saying this that in some very soon time we should have a unique law regarding construction, a law that is related to spatial planning, and especially a major pain in the Republic of Croatia is a matter of inspection services. We believe that, as a Parliament in this session, we will be sure to address this problem, which will best respond to the efficiency of the state administration and the efficiency of the ministries, because in this way it will be in the best service to those who are users, whether natural or legal persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18399	Thank you, too. We have on behalf of the HDZ club Bozidar Kalmeta. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18400	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club supports this proposal of the Law amending the Law on Conduct and Construction Conditions to encourage investment and will vote clearly on this amendment to the law. As previously stated before, this law was adopted and entered into force on 25 June 2009, and then the Law amending the Law on Construction Procedures in order to encourage investment that entered into force in November 2010 extended the validity of the Law on Conduct and Construction Conditions until 31 December 2012 i.e. by the end of this year. What I would like to say is that the basic Act on the treatment and conditions of construction to encourage investment was adopted at the time of the start of the crisis and recession in the Republic of Croatia and was at the time one of the proturecesian measures that should contribute to creating more favourable conditions for direct or domestic investment in the Republic of Croatia. What my colleague said before me, here I will repeat, but it is clear that the law applied only to buildings whose construction required first the location, and then the establishment and confirmation of the main project, which means that it did not refer to family buildings up to 400 meters square neither to agricultural facilities up to 600 meters square, nor to important strategic key infrastructure projects in the Republic of Croatia for which the local and construction permits were issued by the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction. In fact, the aim of passing the law was to get the whole paperwork out in 45 days, so then that law was somehow called in the jargon all in 45 days, and then the ministry did research and research have confirmed that up to 60% of the investors who submitted the request within 45 days that the construction solution had also come out. It should also be noted that that study showed that the requirements rejected were largely rejected because the investor did not have proof that he had the right to build because of the failure to comply with the main project with the spatial-planned documentation and the specific conditions issued in the construction solution. The second reason was that the construction of the building began before the issue of an appropriate act by the competent authority, which represented the object and its legalisation, which was practically prohibited under the original law, or because individual investors tried to implement the new law and result in appropriate building solutions that do not otherwise fall under the provisions of this law. In fact, the fact is that almost a century ago, virtually neglected systematic renewal of catastra and land books in the Republic of Croatia and that the unsettled property-legal situation in a very large number of particles virtually prevented huge investments, which is unfortunately still happening today. Only in practice after the adoption of the Law on Real estate in mid-90s began the systematic cadastrian measurement in the Republic of Croatia, which enabled the restoration of land books. As the procedure for many units of local, regional self-government is of crucial importance for development, building a fundamental infrastructure, for raising entrepreneurship zones. A large number of units of local self-government have submitted a request to the State Geodetic Authority for the construction of a new property cadasar, which is a prerequisite for the renewal of land books, and this is then a prerequisite for the entry of investors into construction, i.e. in the Republic of Croatia if it is foreign investors. Namely, in the disorientation of land library conditions, the second essential prerequisite for investment is the creation of space-planned low-level documentation. And this is a fact that stems from the spatial plan of the municipalities, or the city, or some unit of local self-government. For further implementation and... This law is important to say that it is necessary to make additional efforts by all state bodies in the Republic of Croatia that can and should enable further successful implementation of this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A analysis of the results of the application of the Law of Conduct and Construction Conditions in order to encourage investment as well as the monitoring of the situation in the field of construction by the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning clearly points to the fulfilment of the basic purpose of the adoption of this law in question. In this respect, the application of the law indirectly also has a positive impact on the acceleration of the flow of capital and the promotion of direct investment in the area of construction. ... All of this and the subsequent effects of the law, we believe, by further extending its period of validity until 31 June 2013, which is also proposed by these amendments to the law and further ensuring the same legal conditions of construction. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, once again, the HDZ club eventually supports the proposal to amend and supplement the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18401	Thank you too, colleague. We're moving on to an individual debate, Franjo Lucic. No colleagues? He's losing his right to debate. Next reported by Željko Kolar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18402	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The 2009 Law on the handling and conditions of construction and investment was a good law, and these amendments to the law should also be supported now. The aim of the law was to enable the start of the construction of economically significant buildings within a time limit, i.e. 45 days from the date of submission of an orderly application for a building solution, to enable the involvement of public-legal bodies in the preparation of the project documentation prior to the submission of the application for a solution, to increase the responsibility of the building participants, in particular the designers, investors during the preparation of the project documentation, to increase the coordination of the competent public-legislative bodies involved in the process of issuing the solution, to monitor and monitor the process of issuing acts for the construction and sanctioning ineffectiveness of the proceedings. We can say that more or less in all these segments this law has achieved its goal. And there's a lot that's been said in that law itself, and it shouldn't be repeated again. Pursuant to Articles 30 of the Law, in 2009 and 2010, agreements were concluded by the Ministry on providing professional assistance with all the counties and the City of Zagreb, except for Koprivnica-Kristevci County which did not ask for it then, I do not know how the situation is now. These 20 major cities have the responsibility to issue acts in the field of spatial planning and construction, except Rijeka, Sisak, Varazdin and Samobor, who then did not ask for it. According to the latest records we have or which at least I know 54.3% is a solution or acts issued within 45 days or shorter, 15.7% is a solution issued within 45 to 60 days, 17.95 within 60 to 100 days and 12.1% of requests are resolved within 100 days. If the data is different now, I would ask the Deputy Minister to give us that information. And you'd take advantage of the opportunity when the Deputy Minister is here, if we can get the information, given that we had the Law on Legalization of Unlawful Buildings, to give us information about the state of affairs, how many requests were filed and to make a small partnership in relation to the law that passed, do you see any progress in issuing, applying for permits and what are they like? And what further steps he intends to take in the ministry regarding the fact that as many constructions as possible are involved in legalisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18403	Thank you, too. Deputy Minister, do you want a final? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18404	Thank you very much. Here, then I'd take advantage of it and answer to the distinguished representative Kolar. So, the data related to this popular 45-day law is about the static ones that you said, but I'm taking this opportunity to apply the popular Law on Legalization. So we've run an analysis, and we've been tracking and looking for data every 15 months. The parliament passed a new law on July 13th, it has been in force since 4. Kolovoza. So within a year of the old law, there were slightly less than 15,000 legal requirements. From 15.8 to 15.9., there were about 5,000 demands. According to the latest data on today, so 15.9., 15.10, but we don't have data for all offices. We have 53 office records for 16, had something below 5,000 requests. We expect that according to our office announcements for this month from 15.9. to 15.10. is about 10,000 requests. So, in a rough, former law of the year, there were 15,000 demands and this law in two months was about the same number. In doing so, you must know that the government was not there for two weeks, that the regulation was passed only early in the 9th month and could not be applied until then. As far as we're concerned, we've decided on a campaign, so the campaign helps, and let's say when we watch the Zagreb Bank when it has its own video, it also announces a legalisation loan. Minister Vrdoljak and I also actively participate on all round tables and encourage people to go into legalisation, as you can see the inspection that has already been mentioned here, we do not have any major demolitions, but are constantly removing buildings that were made from 21.6.1. from the funds that we have collected from legalisation, the ministry will also hire additional people to issue a solution so that we do not only stay on the requirements but also at a good percentage of the resolution of these requirements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18405	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. This is what we've exhausted the list of people reported. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18406	Proposal for a Law amending the Act of Conduct and construction conditions to encourage investment, first reading, PZ No. 170. The debate on the proposal is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion, firstly a proposal for a Law amending the Act on the Treatment and Construction Conditions is adopted to encourage investment. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions are addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law. Please state who's behind this conclusion? Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most votes, with 114 for and 3 abstentions, have reached the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18407	We continue with - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure, First Reading, PZ No. 178 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. We have a representative of the motionary, Deputy Minister Sandra Artuković Kunšt. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18408	Thank you very much. Honorable MPs, respected MPs. We propose amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act. As you know, we are now in a greater reform of criminal law, and this proposal is also the result of the reform. Our Law on Criminal Procedure, which is now in force, was adopted in 2008. in certain provisions, it entered into force in 2009 as a whole on 1 September 2011. Except for the part of the provisions to be entered on 1 January 2015. Since its adoption, the law has been changed twice. The first time in 2009 and the second time in 2011. This proposal would carry out third amendments to the law above all to comply with the new Penal Code, which enters into force on 1 January 2013, and in order to comply with this Constitutional Court decision, which was adopted in July, as well as 17 articles of a total of 43. It is proposed to propose these amendments to the minimum impasse and legal text structure to amend some of the provisions to which the law has been applied so far, and increasingly in order to improve the practice of new institutes and the position of individual participants in criminal proceedings. In the proposed harmonisation, we kept in mind that after the entry into force of the 2011 Penal Code, the law continued to apply in the proceedings for the offences under the old law, so to speak, because of the principle of application of the closer law. In fact, if there are two options, we will apply a softer law in the protection of the defendants, so we have the duality of the normative arrangement. It was therefore necessary to regulate the Criminal Procedure Act in such a way as to enable it to apply the Institute of the Mild Law in proceedings, in accordance with both laws. This was first and foremost reflected in the provisions of the laws in which the offences that have therefore been listed in these amendments and additions have been determined in a way that there are two catalogues of criminal offences. One according to the existing '97 KZ and one according to the 2011 KZ. In addition, the 2011 KZ introduces some new criminal acts and also some forms of existing criminal offences to modify. The law on certain criminal offences is minor than the '97 criminal offences, so that such a different structure of criminal offences and fines must be reflected in the Criminal Procedure Act. It also reflects the modification of the actual jurisdiction of the courts. The 2011 catalogue of criminal offences follows in most cases the catalogue of the '97 criminal offences, and the newspaper in jurisdiction relating to the jurisdiction of the county courts refers to the fact that qualified forms of criminal offences have been misused by the use of trust in economic business and the subsidisation of fraud, as amended when significant property benefit or material damage has been obtained by these legal acts. On the one hand, these changes are all the more complex forms of criminal offences of economic crime, and on the other hand the county courts of 1 January 2013. Namely, the dispensation of county courts will take place because of the fact that the new Penal Code that enters into force also refers to the punishment of drug possession for its own needs in a way that they are now entering the criminal sphere. In fact, it all goes down by one degree, so the crime of unauthorized production and drug trafficking, which makes up about 50% of the cases, is brought into the jurisdiction of municipal courts. It should have been taken into account that the 2011 KZ also changed the composition of criminal sanctions because the concept of warning measures was not known which, according to the KZ of '97, was a court notice. This institute no longer knows the new law. The provisional judgment which, according to the 2011 KZ, represented a modification of the penalties also. It was therefore necessary to provide for the application of the provisions of the law to both the Penal Codes in the text of the law to state by reference to a court notice and a conditional person. And since the 2011 Penal Code was imposed in the area by a new institute, so-called a partial conditional conviction it was also required to comply in that part with the Criminal Procedure Act with the provisions of the Penal Code. We've also changed the law on security measures. Since the confiscation of objects that are according to the old KZ from '97. any security measure towards the new KZ is no longer already a measure in itself. As a result, it should have been stated in the text of the law, as well as in the new institutes of special obligations and safeguards, all in order to enable the application of its provisions in the procedures to be conducted for the purposes of the '97 offences, i.e. from 2011. We also defined the concept of a child differently. We don't know the concept of a minor unlike the '97 KZ, and that's supposed to be corporalized into a new law. It was necessary, with the notion of a criminal organisation, to properly integrate in the text the concept of a criminal association and to commit a crime within the criminal association, since the 2011 KZ does not know the concept of criminal organisation and group, and all in order for this law to be applicable also in the proceedings to be conducted under both criminal laws. We also wanted to amend and supplement certain provisions to which the application so far has been manifested as inadequate, so those we can improve. These are limited procedures in the legal text structure which are necessary for the sake of a more quality and efficient application of new institutes and the position of participants. In this regard, we extended the scope of the previous examination of the judge's investigation in the ordinary and the judge of the individual or of the President of the Council in a shortened procedure in such a way that the same in the previous investigation examined the indictment in the so-called so-called. the material meaning, i.e. the examination of whether it is a criminal offence, whether there are circumstances that exclude prosecution or guilt, all with the aim of removing the prosecution’s conduct in the earliest possible stage of the case against which the assumptions for its rejection have been fulfilled. Amendments and additions to the provisions on party agreement are proposed, partly due to the need to align with the 2011 KZ, and partly because practice has shown certain implementation problems. The provisions relating to the agreement of the parties are thus complemented by the way that the mandatory part of the declaration of judgment under the parties' agreement and the statement of the defendant of acceptance of the proposal from the State lawyer for the confiscation of the property benefit is obtained by criminal act. Although the property benefit is always deducted under official duty due to the basic principle of criminal law of the KZ under which no one can retain the property benefit achieved by the illegal action, we consider it essential that the party’s statement of the agreement also contains such a statement because of the particularity of the defendant’s position and thus strengthens the rights of his defence because the defendant will thus have knowledge of the full content of the judgment on the basis of the parties’ agreement and prior to its adoption. It is also proposed to introduce some important news related to the position and treatment of the defendants with mental disorders. It was our obligation to work here. The primary introduction is mandatory defence for the defendants with mental disorders, from the adoption of orders to conduct an investigation which is mandatory whenever there is a suspicion that an illegal act has been committed in an innumerable state. In addition to another case of compulsory defence, the defendants with mental disorders are introduced and the obligation to carry out an investigation, which strengthens and protects the special category of defendants. A new precautionary measure has been introduced for the innumerable perpetrators as an alternative to the investigative prison in a situation where skill finds that sufficient treatment at large is needed to eliminate the likelihood of committing a serious crime. These amendments are undoubtedly in the direction of additional protection of persons suspected of committing an illegal act in an innumerable state. The application of the provisions on the shortened procedure applicable from 1 September 2011 indicated the need to amend and supplement in the direction of clearer expression of existing standards and, in other words, to increase the effectiveness of the criminal proceedings for criminal offences with a prescribed sentence of up to 8 years. This amendment will primarily be achieved by increasing the scope of the previous examination of the indictment and the private lawsuit, thus preventing the initiation of criminal proceedings in the event of negative formal and material procedural assumptions, as well as the introduction of an agreement institute for criminal offences with a suspended sentence of up to 8 years and before the hearing phases. This supplement further contributes to the equalisation of those categories of defendants in rights which so far had the defendants in criminal proceedings with a prescribed sentence of over 8 years. In view of the principle expressed in the criminal law that no one can retain the property benefit of a criminal offence, i.e. an illegal act, an amendment has been made by eradicating the provision that the property benefit obtained by committing a criminal offence is laid down in the procedure on the proposal of the Prosecutor. Finally, for the sake of more effective and faster protection of human rights and the exercise of the rule of law in criminal procedural legislation on the one hand and the constitutional obligation of the legislator to remove, in the shortest time, the shortcomings and failures shown, this reform also affected those 17 articles to improve behaviour. Therefore, it was not deeply affected by the legal text structure, while in the remaining part of the harmonisation of the law with the constitutional decision we reserve the right to do so later within the time specified by the constitutional decision, so we have the time until 15 December 2013 at the latest, since remaining harmonisation requires the removal of structural deficiencies in the normative structure and requires the effectiveness of the previous procedure and the balance of the criminal order. This was briefly what we wanted to present about the changes and additions that we propose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18409	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? If not, we'll move on to a club debate. On behalf of the SDP club Peja Grbin. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18410	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Madam Deputy. The law on criminal proceedings is an instrument in the hands of the judicial system of a regulated state to develop fundamental freedoms and rights of man and citizen governed by the Constitution. This means, in particular, that the Criminal Procedure Act ensures the effective work of the State's attorneys and courts when they act in criminal matters while at the same time ensuring the level playing field of the defendant and his defender. I read this on purpose because I find it extremely important. When he spoke about his work report a few days ago, he spoke about the Criminal Procedure Act as one instrument, as one scalpel that finally enabled the State's Attorney's office to work, finally made it possible for them to achieve what they wanted, what they needed to do and what they needed to do. However, the Constitutional Court's decision of 19 July 2012 raised the question of what kind of instrument it was. The Constitutional Court said of the instrument that it was in its 43 articles, and much more provisions were unconstitutional. He spoke of the Law on Criminal Procedure which is currently in force as being contrary to the Constitution because it does not guarantee what is in the Constitution. For example, it does not provide for the protection of dignity, enables the use of evidence, those illegal evidence that offends fundamental human rights, which is the right to dignity. It makes it possible to offend something declared by the Constitution in Article 29, which is the inviolability of communication between the defender and his defendant. And that's why after just a few years of applying this law, we have to change the same today. Not only because after about a year of application of the same law in all but not just USKOK cases, we noticed that something was wrong, that something could be better arranged, but because the law is contrary to the Constitution, because it violates fundamental freedoms and human and citizen rights. Given the short time before us today, the promoter referred to a proposal that touches only 17 out of 43 observed counterconstitutions. I accept the proposal's view that certain changes require more time, but this is the way I ask the proposings to make sure that the remaining 26 unconstitutions are removed as soon as possible. On the Justice Committee, we have pointed out some, and we believe that before that it can be intervened, that is to say, until the second reading. But let's go back to a concrete proposal. As I was saying, this eliminates the problem of obtaining evidence by violating human dignity. In addition, we are affecting a very pronounced counter-constitution, which concerned the right to record the defendant and his defender's conversations. The law provided for was sufficient for the state's attorney to ask for it and such that, without any standard, it could be implemented for no reason. Such that, in a regulated, democratic state, it is not allowed. The defendant and his defender are already starting in an unfavourable position because on the other hand they have arranged a state apparatus, arranged. We saw 1600 people working at the State's Attorney's office, much more than that in the police department. The state must ensure that in such a situation, the defendant and the defendant are provided with at least minimum working opportunities, not to monitor what they communicate with each other. Furthermore, this law is in line with the Penal Code adopted last year, which enters into force on 1 January 2013. We had to do this because without an appropriate amendment to the Law on Criminal Procedure of the Penal Code would be inadmissible, they would be inadmissible because, of course, the Law on Criminal Procedure, which is subject to the reference of the old Penal Code. However, I cannot not ask the question why did it not go into parallel adoption and amendment of the Code of Criminal Procedure when we knew, or when we had already passed the Penal Code? In this way, all courts, the state's attorneys, would be given the opportunity for defenders to prepare much better, not that, in some way, ad hoc at the last moment, these two laws must be harmonised. Finally, and yet again, what it says is that the 2008 Criminal Procedure Act may not have been the happiest in this law to remove certain shortcomings that have proved in its application, or intervene in what we know we cannot implement. I am very sorry that it is one of these instruments that we regulate again by this law, which restricts the use of house arrest. He proved himself in other countries as an excellent instrument replacing the investigative prison and affecting the issue of overcrowding of prisons we know to be a burning problem in the Republic of Croatia. Finally, it intervenes here in a brief procedure. The shortened procedure shall be treated as an exception in the criminal legislation of the Republic of Croatia. He is at the end of the Law on Criminal Procedure, only a few articles are dedicated to him. However, with amendments to the Penal Code, the shortened procedure will cover almost 90% to 95% of all procedures conducted in the Republic of Croatia. So he's no exception, he's a rule. And I think that we need to pay more attention to what this law does in some way, and I also ask the ministry to check how it will work in practice and then with these changes that will have to follow to intervene in the remaining 26 anti-constitutions slightly regulate the issue of the shortened procedure. As for persons with mental disorders, we in the SDP particularly welcome the provisions of this law concerning these persons. The issue of state order is also appreciated by how they treat those citizens who are in some way the most deficient, with citizens who are most difficult to defend against the influence of the state, from the work of a repressive apparatus. People with mental disorders certainly are. As a result, we support all these changes that concern above all the defence obligations, but the same thing about this is the procedure, when it is conducted against persons with mental disorders, cannot be guided by the provisions of a reduced but said and by law according to the provisions of the ordinary procedure. In short, this law harmonizes criminal-process matter with criminal-material law. Furthermore, we are harmonising with certain problems that have been identified in practice. And we finally bring this law into line, at least in one of his works with the Constitution, unfortunately, not entirely. And therefore, in the SDP, we accept the position of the promoter that he was unable to comply with all the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act with the Constitution within this short time period, we ask that as soon as possible access be made to make additional amendments and additions to ensure that criminal-processing law is fully in line with the Constitution. What is the issue of criminal conduct is very intensively regulated and in my court in a modern way that should be completely revised in criminal proceedings, in the Code of Criminal Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18411	Thank you, too. On behalf of HDZ representative Ana Lovrin's club. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18412	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act in the first reading. First of all, it is a good part of the technical amendments, hence the harmonisation of the Criminal Procedure Act with the Penal Code, which will enter into force on 01.01.2013 and with a decision of the Constitutional Court which, of course, should be respected. I would agree with my colleague Grbino if we could have discussed these amendments to the law earlier, especially in the part where we could, and that's in accordance with the Penal Code, with the Penal Code, referring to those who have to apply those laws. In the case of such complex and large laws, such as the Code of Criminal Procedure, which has 580 articles almost, which article is less. And so I would not agree with the assessment that almost the whole law is unconstitutional, because the Constitutional Court has assessed, therefore, accepted an assessment of the constitutionality of 43 articles of 574, and in one good part it seems to me somewhere, in relation to 50 articles did not accept the assessment of constitutionality, it found no basis or foundation. Of course, these non-constitutions are not that important, since in that case, the Constitutional Court would suspend them, as well as from the Constitutional Court’s decision, which is very complex, large and complex, there are approximately 160 pages. It is also intended to read that it has also referred to that part of the fate of the powers decisions and decisions taken on the basis of those provisions which it has laid down to be abolished through a certain period of time. Therefore, it has resolved the concern that has been discussed a great deal before the Constitutional Court's decision was made that, in fact, all those affairs of the State's Attorney's Office, the USKOK and all the results of the criminal proceedings will actually be questioned. The Constitutional Court has settled it in a way that says it, that it can dispute the validity of such decisions we are if they are only made on the basis of the provision that has been abolished, and then it is settled. This law on criminal proceedings that we call the new CAP, although it has been partially applied since July 2009. So it was brought in 2008, the beginning of its application was phased out, so to speak, since 01.01.2009, and on 01 July 2009 and the full application since 01.May 2011. And today we are discussing the third amendment of this law with experience, one-year experience of full application and three-year experience for jumping objects. When we discuss the fact that there has already been a third amendment, that the Constitutional Court has appeared in relation to a large number of provisions as unconstitutional, it should be borne in mind that a systematic reform of criminal law has occurred both procedurally and materially. That, after 130 years of application and the existence of a mixed type of criminal procedure, Croatia adopted one other principle and another type of criminal proceedings by adopting the adoption of the 2008 CAP, hence the one in which the investigation is strictly separate from the criminal proceedings and is positioned in the previous proceedings and transferred to a state lawyer who unites persecution and investigation. In this regard, our new or already in force, the CAP, knows the previous criminal prosecution procedure, reporting, carrying out reconnaissances, rejection of criminal charges, investigations and stages of research, and then judicial control of the indictment and the hearing before the court and after confirmation, confirmation of the indictment and legal proceedings. It is therefore not surprising, and there will be more of these changes in application. This was met by other countries that were moving into such root reforms that the first commission to adopt the principles or guidelines for amending the Criminal Procedure Act was established back in 2002, so 10 years ago, and these principles were adopted by the Government in 2007. The principles set out what we all certainly believe should be in criminal proceedings, which is on the one hand to guarantee the protection of human rights, the reliable determination of truth in a quick, simple, economical procedure which must, of course, take care of the severity of the crime but also the protection of society against criminal offences, the committing of crime and the perpetrators of criminal offences, and that this law must ensure the equality of arms in the process because these are two things that are important, therefore, to ensure human rights for everyone but also the protection of society against the criminal behaviour of individuals. So given this root reform, like I said, it's no wonder we have a change to look for that balance that's not always easy to determine. Often in practice, then, it shows where things should be fixed. So today, in this proposal for amendments and additions, there are 17 provisions that have been abolished by the Constitutional Court's decision, it has been corrected to say these amendments and amendments to the Law on criminal proceedings before us, and in the second part of this amendment concerns the alignment of the text of the law with the new Penal Code, which enters into force on 1.1.2013. This applies first and foremost to the catalogue of criminal offences as stated in that catalogue, where so far the offences under the applicable Criminal Code have been counted, it is now necessary to add the criminal offences introduced by the new Penal Code to the parallel of course, because given the time of the criminal offence, it is possible to apply the provisions of the current criminal law and the new Criminal Code. It's also these changes have introduced changes in real jurisdiction. Since some years there, I do not remember precisely whether it was in 2007 or 2006 when the increased penalties mainly in the act of drug abuse, it was then unwittingly that for a large part of the criminal offences jurisdiction had passed over to the county courts because of the maximum impediment, and then it was indeed that the county courts were dealing with easier forms of these crimes but had to deal with it because their jurisdiction over the prevention of the most punishment was their jurisdiction, and then, above that, in the second degree, the Supreme Court dealt with them. Here's a provision of a new Penal Code given that limit of a certain sentence will restore it to the jurisdiction of municipal courts. Therefore, these amendments to the law suggest that some other specific types of criminal offences, regardless of the level of prohibited penalties, be imposed on them by the jurisdiction of the county court where more complicated species are involved, especially in economic business or certain fraud, are then placed in the jurisdiction of the fund, because it requires a more professional, extensive examination to place this in the jurisdiction of the county courts. It is also a good change that the extended scope of the previous investigation by the judge of the individual or the president of the council is that, at the earliest stage, it is possible to exclude prosecution if there is no basis for it that someone would not be unduly involved in further criminal proceedings if there are no grounds. I think it is a good thing that this provision of confiscation of property benefit as a fundamental postulate of criminal law or legislation that no one can acquire and retain property benefit acquired by criminal act, that it is not necessary for this to be taken away regardless of the proposal of a state attorney always on official duty. Here we mention what I often mention and what to take care of, which is that we always talk about only property benefits. Therefore, in criminal law, the same should be said of the benefit of the criminal offence acquired. Often benefits can be beyond property benefits. This is not the case, this is not the case, and then situations happen so that persons are convicted, they serve the sentence, but they continue to retain the benefits of this criminal act for reasons of not knowing which body and in what procedure would change it. For example, I know the case of falsifying a certificate that is entered in the workbook, a person is sentenced to probation, the condition is expired, deleted from the records, but the workbook of qualifications is not deleted because it simply does not know who, how and in what procedure it is obliged to do so. The examinations which have been obtained by a criminal offence have been convicted, etc. others still enrolled in indices and university records, etc. So there's a lot of benefits that aren't directly property, and that's not spoken of, but in this part it's good to say that it's not necessarily a proposal to take away property benefit, that it's taken away by official duty. That's why mine, when we discussed the state's attorney's report and my question and the surprise that in 230 convictions against legal persons, only in 17 cases, the property benefit was taken away, and the legal person's responsibility for the crime was precisely that the responsible person committed a criminal offence to benefit the legal person. I didn't get an answer to that then, but certainly very, very illogically. Here and finally, of course, the possibility of agreeing parties in a shortened procedure, which makes the defendants in their rights equal to the good change in both ultimately and in some way speeding up and doing more effectively and this reduced procedure. And one last thing I'm going to say, and a colleague of the coat of arms mentioned it, which is an investigative prison in a home or what we call a home arrest. So house arrest is something that certainly meets the purpose of ensuring presence or disabling the escape of a person, which costs the country the least, especially in view of the situation in our brakes. However, and the answer was explained by the Minister of Justice that this was how the amendment was proposed and this meant a limitation of cases where home detention could be determined, in fact, the reason why not some strictness towards the defendants, but actually the possibility, what the state can provide at the moment, so it can't ensure, is not capacitated to ensure supervision for everyone, and then what this surveillance was also transferred to these changes to the Ministry of the Interior, or to the police, and what the police are now proposing is actually what the police can control, and these are pregnant women, persons with problems in movement and persons over 70 years of age. I strongly recommend that along with these pregnant women certainly when it has to be limited, mothers get along with young children. I don't know if it's possible, at least up to 1 year. It would be great to go to school, so they can stay with their children and keep them safe and prevent them from running away or moving. But then anyway, at least I'm asking for a proposal for mothers with children up to 1 year old. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18413	Thank you very much. Dear MPs, a replica of the respected representative of Peđa Grbin has been reported to your presentation. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18414	Thank you, Mr. President. Not wanting to over-polomise on this subject, but I must point out that the law is really great, but the fact that the Constitutional Court intervened in as many 43 provisions represents how much I know the kind of record in our independent homeland. I don't think there's ever been so much extensive intervention of a constitutional court in one law. Well, you yourself said it was a very complex and complex decision. I'll give you examples. The applicable law has almost uncritically enabled a search without a warrant. Furthermore, I will ask the question, at which stage of the procedure we are closing the proposal of new evidence. In my opinion, this in force law is too restrictively determined. And the Constitutional Court agrees. I do not dispute that this law is effective and that it achieves much better results than it has ever been the case with previous laws, and it really needs to be supported. But I think we need to find a certain balance between the drive towards efficiency, towards restrictions, to support the repressive state apparatus, and we need to make at least a small distance, so if we need to take a step back and go back to protecting human rights. In my opinion, some of the provisions of the law were too restrictive, and my position was confirmed by the Constitutional Court, and that is exactly what I am based on my opinion that this law is too unconstitutional. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18415	Thank you very much. Replicate response, distinguished representative Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18416	Thank you very much. A fellow coat of arms, undoubtedly respecting human rights and fundamental freedoms, we absolutely agree. I said it was a law of 574 articles, that it was questioned and established, I can't say it, it's not legal to say mild unconstitutionalness, but not so much that those provisions were immediately abolished. So there is no time left for the legislator to bring them in line and therefore the decisions made on the basis of them have not been abolished. But of course this is one reform that has changed the system so far. People were taught each other, so these questions about the constitutional question were very much because it was something new, but that's what we wanted. So it is absolutely necessary to support the individual's freedoms and rights, but also to protect society from illegal behavior. So, the fact is, and that's what we discussed in the state's attorneys' work report, in 2005, I remember that report, the verdicts, or the convictions, were based on the state's attorney's charges and charges below 50%. Everyone said at the time that it was the courts that set people free and they wouldn't be judged, they were too mild, etc. Then we asked if it wasn't about the state's attorney's office not shooting enough evidence and not having the tools to get them. These new laws give them tools, but of course there must not be tools that insult human rights and fundamental freedoms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18417	Thank you very much. The next HDSSB representative club and respected representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18418	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. We also have a very important law for the HDSSB club, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act. If not all the ideal things were to be heard we also heard the opinion of colleagues of Pedje Grbin and colleagues Lovrin that there are nevertheless certain shortcomings since we are changing this law in the short term after one year of application and it is not to be ignored that the Constitutional Court has considered not only these 43 articles which have been declared unconstitutional, 17 here are incorporated into this law, but even 150 articles submitted to the Constitutional Court for consideration. This is one extensive material of the Constitutional Court on 160 pages where the Constitutional Court also refers to the history of criminal procedural legislation in Croatia, to the major major changes that we have also had in our negotiation of Chapter 23 in Croatia's entry into the EU, but also to all those problems that have been faced with criminal law in the process of applying the new Criminal Code, i.e. the 1997 Penal Code, we are talking here about the Criminal Law of '97. and from 2009 to this 2011 Act, which will enter into force on 1 January 2013. I agree with my colleague, Pejo Grbin, that in view of the Constitutional Court's decision to implement the Constitutional Court's conclusions as soon as possible, the articles of the Criminal Procedure Act should be amended as far as possible because of the rights, fundamental human rights and freedoms of our citizens. Because it doesn't matter if someone in criminal procedural law is going to be treated in a more subordinate position than someone else. It's about human rights and it's about equating those rights and the defendants, the suspects, but also the rights of the state's attorney, the state's attorney and the courts. It is not to ignore, therefore, the intervention of the Constitutional Court, especially when it comes to human dignity violations, allowing parties to exempt judges throughout the proceedings, preventing police from bringing in the defendant without an arrest warrant. The law regulates preventing the escape of a founding person from committing a criminal offence which is prosecuted and under official duty, shortens the time at which the arrester must be brought before the judge of the investigation, and we find it very important to provide the court with a list of all the evidence at his disposal and not to provide evidence during the criminal proceedings, and imposes an obligation on the court which is also important to explain why some of the evidence offered by the parties has been rejected in the proceedings because it is important for the further appeal procedure in the criminal proceedings. The current application of the law has indicated the need for complementarity and certain provisions in order to make the application of new institutes and the position of individual participants more effective in the process. What is important to say for these amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act, they may be aware of three parts, as my colleagues before me have said, is to comply with the new Criminal Law which enters into force on 1 January 2013, which is important to bring the law in line with the decisions of the Constitutional Court of 19 July 2012, and also to amend and supplement the laws which have shown that certain provisions should be amended in view of the stated application of the Law on Criminal Procedural Law. We at the HDSSB club therefore support this to bring the '97 Law into line. with the 2011 Law because, of course, that law which is lighter for the defendant should be applied in criminal proceedings. We also support all new institutions in criminal procedural law that will allow the equality of parties, faster treatment, agreement and party reference to their rights in criminal procedural law. In addition, the discharge of county courts and the granting of new criminal offences in the decision of county courts, and the offences for the possession of intoxicating drugs and drug trafficking referred to in Article 190(1) and (2) give jurisdiction to municipal courts, it is also good since this has gone beyond the scope of the infringement. In these amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act, the HDSB invites the applicant to implement, as soon as possible, all those other decisions of the Constitutional Court as it is not to be ignored here, Article 16. The law on criminal proceedings where the issue of surveillance and monitoring of communications between defendants and defenders is addressed. It doesn't matter, therefore, because it also encroachs on the fundamental constitutional rights and freedoms of man and citizen. Therefore, due to the Court's assessment that there may be some information for the detection of serious criminal offences, this is a fundamental right, which is the right to monitor surveillance, follow-up of text messages, image messages, emails between parties. So, it should also be implemented as quickly as possible and this problem because it engulfs as these decisions that have been abolished into fundamental human rights and freedoms of man and citizen. The reduction of the procedure, therefore, is also a positive change in the examination of material evidence in the shortened procedure, so that the percentage does not become difficult and that the parties are not brought into an equal position... proceedings unless there is material evidence that criminal proceedings as such should be carried out. As regards party settlement, party signing, confiscation of property benefit acquired by criminal acts, all parties are well aware of the rights and this agreement of parties and the reduction of proceedings also in the Criminal Procedure Act are considered to be good. The right of persons with mental disorders, the regulation of those provisions on house arrest, we also believe that this second reading may need to be complemented, given that it is not quite clear when it comes to house arrest, which all legislators mean with these amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act. We also propose to the legislator that all those amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act which will go towards 2013 be incorporated as soon as possible into the existing law. We also call on the applicant to implement the decisions of the Constitutional Court as soon as possible because they are very important for fundamental human rights and freedoms of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18419	Thank you, Your Honor. The next club, is the HNS club and respected representative Petar Baranovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18420	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, the esteemed deputy minister, respected colleagues and colleagues. For the start of the HNS club will support these amendments and additions to the law. In this case, we are a little disabled as a club because we do not have prominent lawyers or people with longer practice, professional in the Croatian judiciary, so I was tasked with saying at least a few things, in principle about how we are experiencing these amendments and additions to the Penal Code as well as the situation that arose in the application of this law adopted, which came into force in 2009. So there will be a very certain exposure to our club, or my exposure on behalf of the HNS Club, something less detailed and something moving. As you know, after this new Penal Code came into force in 2009, that is, the Law on Criminal Procedure, followed by a very harsh reaction of the Bar Association which ultimately resulted in and submitted, not only their claims to the Constitutional Court but also a whole series of other lawsuits, or objections to the Constitutional Court, if I use the wrong legal term, and with fundamental remarks concerning human rights and the need to bring all Croatian laws in line with, not only the Croatian Constitution, but also the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights. Which, in the case of the 2009 original CAP, was obviously not the case. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia was manifested in a way that ordered the removal of 43 provisions from the code, where it ordered the erasure of certain articles, in some cases the erasure, ordered the erasure of certain items in such a way that the deadline was due for the following year. Now the proposer of these amendments and the addition of the law intervenes in 17 situations where we particularly welcome those interventions concerning the equalisation of the rights of the accused, i.e. the creation of a balance in the position of the defendant against the position of the prosecution and the State's attorney. Because when you read some of the reactions of the bar and the legal experts, then you know exactly what it's about. In this 2009 law, practices stemming from Angolan law have been applied. And of course our lawyers in these areas who have learned to act according to the law, Roman law, continental law, something like that was too quick to cross over, and even when you look at some things then, such a human without some great legal reference you can conclude that some things simply in our understanding of society, the rights of individuals and the way the judiciary works don't hold water. This 2009 law created, dared to say, the Pharaohic powers of the state's attorney. The state's attorney is an individual, no matter what name and name it is, no matter how important the task is and how much we all want to create an effective system of fight against corruption and organised crime, and crime at all. We need to be aware of the fact that every individual is vulnerable to weaknesses. The creation of a model to be handled in situations where individuals have too many discretionary rights, in which an individual does not have an effective, fully effective control mechanism, in any case in people who consider equality to be one of the fundamental principles on which society should operate, causes a reserve and a skeptic. By consulting quickly, I have to admit with some people who practice this part of the legal matter, with some lawyers who are dealing with criminal law, I have noted some of the anomalies that we believe deserve attention. In the context of an unequal defence position in relation to the prosecution and the DORH, they would comment that it is problematic, absolutely, that evidence can simply not be given to the defendant's defence until the defendant's proposal has been delivered to the Council. Which means that at a certain stage of the defence procedure, there is absolutely no possibility of obtaining counter evidence and defending the defendant. We welcome the introduction of the home detention institute precisely because of the people who are disabled, who are in a difficult state of health, the elderly, and I join that observation, or the proposal of colleague Ana Lovrin, to include in that category mothers who have children until a certain age, because we really must be people and accept the fact, if not for the sake of the mother, then it would be justified to consider this proposal. The law also provides for a change in the jurisdiction of county and municipal courts in such a way that severe criminal offences of economic crime are placed in the jurisdiction of county courts and that county courts are dispersed from those crimes whose nature allows them to be prosecuted in municipal courts in order to speed up the processes and work of county courts that are overrun by certain types of cases, and all to combat economic crime and corruption as effectively as possible. In any case, given that these constitutional court interventions have gone particularly towards the protection of fundamental human rights, we as a liberal party whose human rights are a fundamental part of the political programme are one of the imperatives in our political work we welcome this proposal to amend and supplement the law, of course, with the expectation that the proposer will do the rest of what the Constitutional Court has ordered to do as soon as possible. The HNS will support this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18421	Thank you, Your Honor. We've exhausted a list of registered clubs and a list of registered representatives. I call on the Prime Minister's representative, Deputy Minister of Honor Sandra Artukovic, to address the finals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18422	Thank you very much. So here I am just going to take a brief look at these two points that have been troubled in the debate, which is consistent with the Constitutional Court's decision and house arrest. We looked forward to the Constitutional Court's decision, as I believe everyone. It came at a time when we had already sketched the draft amendments and amendments to the law and when we had already referred it to the procedure and we managed to install these 17 provisions. For the remaining 26 provisions, we consider it necessary not to install them quickly. We believe that it is not desirable, nor do we want mistakes in Croatian legislation in particular in criminal law, but we want these changes to be made, and we want them to enter into fundamental human rights, however, to reach a consensus. Therefore, these changes will require a full public debate and we hold that we have to carry it out as far as possible. We are already in the stage of preparation and we are sure that by spring this proposal will be prepared, we will certainly not prepare it until 15 December, as is the day of the deadline but before, but I repeat expect this public debate on these changes to be deep, complete and to reach a consensus on these issues. With regard to house arrest, we have established this law what was most important for the application of this institute, which is the jurisdiction over the conduct of house arrest in such a way that it is now in the jurisdiction of the MUP to conduct house arrest. And in order to allow this institute to be properly applied, we have determined the type of person it is being implemented, so pregnant women, persons with physical defects that make it difficult to move significantly, persons who have turned 70 years of age. So those who find it most difficult to determine the accommodations in custody. The possibility of a mother being placed in custody with small children exists, to be placed under house arrest, too, but if the court decides. Therefore, placing a mother with a small child in custody remains an option that the court will, in a specific case, apply not only to a mother with small children and to all these other persons if the court assesses that a home arrest for such a person is an individual or, in particular, a better option or a better option for the system. And all this other stuff that will follow as an indication or a proposal or amendment to our law we will respect the second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18423	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill when the conditions are met. The following is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Criminal Procedure, first reading, PZ No. 178. The debate on the proposal is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion, firstly the proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Criminal Procedure is adopted. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions are addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law. I'm asking you to state who's in favour of the proposed conclusion. Thank you. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously, with 120 votes, a delayed conclusion has been made.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18426	Thank you very much. Honorable MPs, respected MPs. We continue to do what we have previously said, and in the context of the reform of criminal law, we propose amendments and additions to the USKOK Act or the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime. The Law on the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime was adopted in 2009, amendments were made in 2010 for the exact determination of the jurisdiction of the USKOK in respect of criminal offences committed by a group or criminal organisation or corruption offences, and in 2011 we intervened in this law for the purpose of fulfilling the criteria set out in Chapter 23 on justice and fundamental rights. This need for intervention in the USKOK law is conditioned in the first order of compliance with the new Penal Code of 2011 which enters into force on 1 January 2013 and is therefore intervened in this proposal in such a way as to bring the law in line with the new Penal Code in order to apply the law to the current Penal Code. This proposal also contains amendments that are not the result of the new Penal Code but are proposed for the clarity of correcting or supplementing individual articles in the current text. In fact, the new Criminal Procedure Act no longer knows the extraordinary legal remedy for the emergency mitigation of penalties. The institute no longer exists and we have intervened in the USKOK Act in the sense that the previous Article 37 of the State Attorney General could, in addition to requests for a solution to an investigation of witnesses, i.e. the person who has already been convicted as a member of a criminal organisation, also file a request for the mitigation of the sentence given to him, if that person's testimony would be important for the proof, detection or prevention of the execution of the most serious forms of organised crime. Due to the fact that the new KZ is no longer aware of this extraordinary legal remedy, the request for an extraordinary mitigation of penalties, the USKOK lost a strong bargaining instrument that allowed effective action to be taken in the collection of evidence precisely in these most difficult criminal acts and to compensate for that loss, that is to say, to process what we are most interested in, so that the most serious crimes involved in USKOK we amended Article 37, so that USKOK has the possibility to apply for the renewal of the criminal proceedings in order to change the judgment of power in relation to the person who helped expose the criminal offence, and in this regard we also changed the CAP in Article 497 that allows it. Given that most of the proposed amendments and additions in this law stem from the need to comply with the new KZ and the date of entry into force of this law, the CAP is followed and the new KZ will also allow for the application of the USKOK Act to be applied in an appropriate manner and uniformly, and would not be possible without the proposed amendments and additions, so I propose that they be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18427	Thank you, too. Do the workers want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We go by clubs The first to discuss is the SDP club of Croatia and the respected representative Vesna Fabiančić-Krisjanić. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18428	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a third revision of the USCOD Act. The 2009 Act was first revised in 2010 and secondly in 2011, primarily in order to meet the criteria for closing Chapter 23. Justice and fundamental rights. Since the founding of 2001 to this day, an office established with the aim of gaining more and more effective opposition to corruption and organised crime as a specialised body within the state's attorney's office has been given growing powers over these years. We remember in 2000 when the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on the Confirmation of the Criminal Convention on Corruption signed by the Ambassador and Permanent Representative of the Republic of Croatia at the Council of Europe in Strasbourg on 15.9.1999. It is then stressed that corruption is a threat to the rule of law, democracy and human rights, to undermine the principles of good administration, justice and social justice, to destroy competition, to make economic development more difficult and to expose the stability of democratic institutions and the moral foundations of society, all in the belief that the fight against corruption can only be effective through strengthening, fast and effective international cooperation on crime. We also remember in 2003 when the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on Confirmation of the Civil-Legal Convention on Corruption signed in Strasbourg in 2001, which highlights the financial consequences that corruption has for individuals, companies and states, as well as for international institutions, convinced that it is important for civil rights to contribute to the fight against corruption. In the meaning of this Convention, corruption means seeking, offering, giving or receiving direct or indirect bribes or any undue benefit or possibility of obtaining such benefit that interferes with the proper exercise of any duty or conduct required of the recipient of the bribe, the undue benefit or the possibility of obtaining such benefit. Corruption with less resistance to organised crime weakens morale in political decision-making, blocks public administration, makes the judiciary ineffective, violates fundamental social values and threatens the rule of law. And, of course, because of everything that I have put forward, it was not only important to establish USKOK, it was more and more power-building from the establishment of 2001 to the adoption of the USKOK law in 2009 to today's third revision of this office law. All of this resulted in the success of an office in organised crime, which is very high, respecting the fact that the most complex objects were made exclusively in the office, unlike the less complex cases which were made in other state attorneys. These third amendments to the law in the first order, of course, as we have heard from the proposings, are in line with the new KZ which enters into force 1.1.2013. It is, of course, necessary to bring it in line with termologically because KZ, which will soon enter into force, uses different terms for individual measures and offences. Similarly, due to the entry into force of the new KZ, there are two catalogues in this law, all due to the principle of applying a mild law, i.e. the fact that, in certain cases, the old KZ will apply. And of course, this third revision, in addition to the above mentioned, continues to strengthen the office by amending Article 37 of this Law, whatever the content of that article is in line with the new CAP. Therefore, instead of the request so far for the extraordinary mitigation of penalties, a request will be submitted for the renewal of the proceedings in order to amend and rule of law as regards the decision on penalties. The new Code of Criminal Procedure in the Regulation... without this important instrument, important for the detection and proof of criminal offences committed within the framework of a criminal organisation or the perpetrator of those crimes, i.e. to detect and prevent criminal offences by members of a criminal organisation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And because of all this above-mentioned SDP club will support these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18429	Thank you very much. The next club is the HDZ club and respected representative Vladimir Seks. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18430	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. The HDZ representative club will support the amendment and addition of the Law on the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime. I would now just look back at two articles of this criminal code. The first is Article 8 where an additional powerful instrument is given, one strong lever to USKOK in such a way that, on the proposal of the Director, the Chief Attorney may apply to the Court for a solution to the witness's investigation and to that witness, the person already convicted as a member of the criminal organisation or criminal association, who is legally sentenced with a request for renewal of the proceedings but only for the decision to amend that part of the sentence in the event of the SCOK assessing that person's testimony is, therefore, a legally convicted person, a legally convicted member of a criminal organisation or a criminal association, important for the detection and evidence of criminal offences committed within the criminal organisation, or the perpetrator of those crimes, shall go to detect or prevent criminal offences by members of a criminal organisation, or criminal association. It is in fact a fee that by reducing the sentence through this Institute of Rehabilitation of the Penal Procedure in order to alter the sentence of a legally convicted member of a criminal association or criminal organisation, it will be possible to lower the sentence if it agrees to a kind of settlement in such a way that it is important to assist testimony in detecting and proving the crimes committed within the framework of a criminal organisation or criminal association, or to detect and prevent the perpetrators of those crimes. In this way, USKOK again receives another powerful procedural weapon that can be used by the testimony of such legally convicted persons of a criminal organisation or criminal association so that it can capture other members of that organization or that criminal association and prove other criminal acts or reveal those criminal acts that appear to be in the coverage of that criminal organisation and criminal association. And it is certain that, in the case of judicial practice, it will make a significant contribution in punishing and detecting criminal offences from the part of the United States and corruption, and in particular politically motivated corruption, in the legislation, to bring the hand of justice to justice and those they think will not reach, and it will reach them because members of that criminal organisation or associations will repent and receive a reduction of penalties by revealing those perpetrators or those crimes they commit or committed by members of that same criminal organisation. And accordingly, it is also a good provision that states that, instead of such a request for the renewal of the criminal proceedings, this prisoner who has already been convicted as a member of the criminal organisation and criminal association, that the same purpose can be achieved also in a way that the Attorney General is responsible for the parole of the prisoner, so that this prisoner who has already been convicted as a member of the criminal organisation and criminal association can submit a proposal for parole and that the court is then to release, on parole, a legally convicted member of the criminal organisation and criminal association who has agreed to testify and give a statement which is important for the detection and proof of criminal offences within the criminal organisation and the prevention of criminal offences by criminal organisation and criminal association. And in this way, the same member of the criminal organization can come to an artificial discharge and be honored if he agrees to testify in a way that the judiciary gets hold of those who, without whose testimony, could not be caught by very dangerous actors committing crimes within the criminal organisation or criminal association. And yet there is a very interesting provision that is related to Article 5, which only seems to mean one equation with, in line with the new Penal Code, which has been continuous, and is in keeping with the Croatian public, and it has been constantly in the spotlight, was now in this final debate of the Assembly, where we discussed the 2011 report of the state's lawyers on the work and concerns Article 30 of the current law, the positive law, paragraph 2, which reads: "Without the approval of the Director of USKOK, no data should be published on criminal prosecution in the cases referred to in Article 21 of this Law.", therefore, these are items from the part-cycle of USKOK, corruption, organised crime, mainly or other serious crimes. And that unauthorized publication of this data is a criminal offense to give off the official secret referred to in Article 351. The Penal Code, since the new Penal Code is now going on, it is harmonising, so it will now be Article 300. Penalty law. And it's all very nice when you don't have one situation in public and in society at all, that it's a public secret to publish data on criminal cases, on criminal prosecution in USKOK jurisdiction cases. The Director of USKOK and the State's Attorney's Office argues that they, not only do they not grant authorisation for the release of such data, but also in any way are not involved in the publication of data in criminal cases in prosecution, corruption and organised crime and criminal organisations and associations. A part of the public has a different opinion and different beliefs and opens up, a circle is closed that cannot be established, that it does not determine who gives data on criminal prosecution for crimes under the jurisdiction of the USKOK and the unauthorised publication of such data. And these data are unauthorized, which is obvious, which we witness every day that on the pages of different media and press and electronics data are published which are unauthorized because it did not give the authority of the director. These data are published under the law of an unauthorized, the publication of these data is a criminal offence of the disclosure of official secrecy. So this crime seems uninterrupted, every day it can be seen, almost every day, that this crime is committed. On the other hand, claims and assurances come that no authorisation is granted for the publication of that information on this prosecution, for those offences. And now we've only got one, practically nomotechnical amendment to the law, that it's no longer giving away the official secret, unauthorized vision of that data in Article 351. The Penal Code, rather than being in the article under the new Penal Code, will be an article of each other. And there, as a legislator of this law, should be given to me some explanations about how to pass this law now, how to insist, insist on two undeniable facts. One is that it is an unauthorized publication of the data, this data is a criminal offence of giving away official secrets, and another incontrovertible fact is that this crime is committed and that there are parallels between these two facts giving away the criminal act of giving away the official secret and that the crime is committed and that we have no one who has been prosecuted, who is accused or convicted of this crime. At that time, a question is raised, which falls a little into the theater of absurdity, that the public’s eyes are publicly shown that the criminal act of giving off the official secret crafts is carried out without any sanctions. Perhaps the ministry could give some answers to this question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18431	Thank you, Your Honor. With this, we have exhausted the list of applicants for the debate on the bill, both by clubs and by MPs. I'm closing the debate. We will vote when conditions are met with the situation now, we will vote when the conditions are met. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Office for the control of corruption and organised crime, first reading, PZ No. 176. The debate on the proposal is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion, firstly adopting the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions are addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law. I'm asking you to state who's in favour of the proposed conclusion. Thank you. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous, with 120 votes for the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18434	Thank you very much. Honorable MPs, respected MPs. Here is a lesson on this subject which we align this set of our proposed laws with the new Penal Code and the Law on Juvenile Courts, so we propose amendments and additions relating to compliance with the Penal Code, and part also concerns improving the legal provisions in accordance with the need for practice. The harmonisation with the Penal Code was carried out because of the fact that the Penal Code prescribes security measures and in order to properly apply them to minors, it was necessary to intervene in this law, because the new security measures prescribed require that they be adapted in application to minors are therefore not automatically applied in themselves, but rather the categories to which minors therefore require a specific selective or different application because of the specific nature of the structure and relation to minors in those measures. Therefore, the safety measures that can be imposed on a minor under the law of the institution or the measure of juvenile prison are also specified in the duration of these measures, i.e. the duration of the measures of mandatory psychiatric treatment and mandatory treatment of addiction. We, too, in the Youth Court Act, have added the catalogue of criminal offences to the harm of children in a way that, with the existing catalogue, we added this new catalogue relating to the 2011 Criminal Law to the children of '97. There are two catalogues in the proposal for the principle of application of a milder law, and also in that way, difficulties will be avoided in practice regarding the application of the Penal Code to each individual case, in particular, in the case of criminal offences which are affecting the sexual sphere and are prescribed in chapters 16 and 17. 2011 Penal Code What the bang demanded, and where we intervened, we specified the provisions governing the court's proceedings in giving a single sentence of juvenile prison in the course of criminal proceedings. In the case of a minor, it is specific that it is not necessary to determine each individual sentence for each individual offence, and we have now specified to that extent that it is definitely clear that the court applies those provisions relating to the Penal Code in the event of a single sentence to minors. It is also a precise provision concerning material and legal purpose. An adult for a criminal offence committed as an elderly minor and at the time of the trial, a court of 21 may also give an educational measure of reference to a disciplinary centre. This allowed us to better individualise sanctions as well as the possibility for the court to intervene in the event where a person does not carry out the necessary obligations or refuses or interferes with the enforcement of an educational measure which has been given to him the educational measures of enhanced supervision. It is also specified a provision that prescribes the application of juvenile law to minor adult offenders, we have also provided certain interventions in the case of the arrest of minors or we have provided an alternative to the conduct of a state attorney in the event of the detention supervisor informing the State's attorney that he is arresting a minor. In that case, a State lawyer may determine the release of a minor on the loose or bringing a youth judge for questioning. This is what we were obliged to do because in practice, it was the state's attorney who imposed the arrest of a minor on a young man for questioning and in cases where he would not be proposed to determine the detention or investigation law. Also, what we consider to be a very important contribution to the legal system and to the protection of minors, we have put as the first interview of minors, so a juvenile interrogation is the first evidence action, and thus we want to avoid the situation of the minor being re-examined. He once was questioned, and that's the first evidence store, there's no need to do the same thing again. A provision relating to the direct proposal has been specified, the need for re-examination by a state lawyer if it has already been examined by a youth judge. In addition, as regards the legal proceedings of the court, when the decision of the minor is lifted on the basis of a decision which the minor was in the institution, that is to say, the decision on his temporary accommodation in the institution of social care or in the investigating prison will be reconsidered because it was known that the minor was detained without a legal basis because there was no other solution in this particular case. This solution avoids a minor, despite... deciding when there is no condition for his accommodation in the institution of social care or for determining an investigative prison, illegally retaining or allowing him to be released. It is also specified a provision that prescribes the application of juvenile rights to minors in the section relating to the procedure for the declaration of appeal in the sense that a second-degree court may, at the time of the trial, place a sentence of imprisonment or a sentence of probation and when the appeal is made only for his benefit. Here we wanted to equate persons, i.e. to apply the same criminal justice institutes to anyone who, by his conduct, violates or threatens the fundamental freedoms or rights of man and other legal or social values guaranteed by the Constitution of Croatian or international law. Therefore, we have sought to improve the conduct of criminal proceedings against minors, young adults and adult perpetrators of crimes against children for the sake of successful application in practice, and in this sense we have made this proposal an amendment and a supplement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18435	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies, the board of the Croatian Parliament, want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We start at clubs with a debate. It is the first SDP club in Croatia and respected representative Sandra Petrovic. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18436	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respected deputy minister with associate, colleague and colleague. First of all, the reason for the adoption of the amendments and the addition of the Law on Juvenile Courts is that, with the date of 1 July 2013, a new KZ adopted last year, it was necessary to adapt the rules attached to it in order to ensure the consistent application of criminal law before Croatian courts. Attention in amendments to criminal law was also needed to be paid to the court treatment of minors, both minors and minors to whose harm a criminal offence was committed. The Youth Court Act is just one of the special instruments which is the task of members of society who enjoy our special protection, which are children and minors, to provide them with protection. Children, i.e. As a victim of criminal offences, minors are indisputably the most vulnerable part of society, and for a long time in the development of criminal law science did not enjoy special treatment. It was not until the 19th century that certain legislation prescribed some crimes that protected children and minors from adult behavior in order to protect their lives, physical integrity, health, sexual integrity or education. Trends of recognition of the necessary protection continued in the 20th century and the forms of criminal protection of children and minors as a summary concept of material and procedural extended. In this trend, legislation was also developed in the Republic of Croatia, and so in the new KZ, additional sensitivity for crimes was added to children's harm. As there is also a legal need for specialities in the handling of child and minor criminal protection, in response to this question, a solution has also emerged as provided for in the Law on Juvenile Courts, which in a special article catalogues the criminal offences of children and minors for whom, according to the Court of Juvenile Act itself, requires speciality in the procedure. In order to understand matter, it is necessary to say that these particularities refer to the specific composition of the councils acting in these cases, the specific way of testing children and minors, the restriction on the calling and testing of such damages. Such files have a status of urgency in solving, and the proposal for this law clarifies the urgency provisions in such a way that it applies to all participants in the procedure. Furthermore, this is an exception to the penalty for refusals witnessed, the particularity of determining the local jurisdiction of the court, and the statutes of limitations stipulate that the limitation of prosecution for criminal offences committed at the expense of the child and the minor does not run until their age. It's similar in comparison law. Data from the legal system of England and Wales show that it is on average necessary 76 days from the start of the crime until the end of the juvenile procedure, and unlike the adult perpetrators when the procedure is longer and longer than 98 days, while the procedure itself is generally less formal than in normal proceedings and is closed to the public. For example, in Finland where there are no special courts or proceedings for youth criminal proceedings involving minors are resolved faster than others. As penalties are provided there and with fines and work for the general benefit, probation as well as supervision with a conditional penalty whose purpose is of course reintegration into society while there is a juvenile prison exception, and if implemented there are special institutions that differ from prisons. When we talk about a special catalogue of criminal offences as prescribed in Article 113. The Law on Juvenile Courts is about criminal acts from different chapters of the Penal Code when they were committed to the harm of children and minors. Here, the Law on Juvenile Courts is intervened in a way that adds criminal offences to the harm of children prescribed by the new Penal Code and thus avoids difficulties in practice with regard to the application of the relevant law. The width of this catalogue of criminal offences shows the exceptional sensitivity of the Croatian legal system for our youngest, it was sexual acts, acts against life and body or other acts. When we talk about statistics in such criminal acts in relation to the accused, accused and convicted persons for crimes against the harm of minors and children, the highest share of the perpetrators of the crimes of abandonment and abuse of a child or a minor, the violent conduct in the family and the violation of the duty of restraint. If we take into account further acts of sexual freedom, we can also see by the purity of the injury and by the fact that this is really about legal treatment and protection of persons who are not known for themselves and cannot protect themselves against the perpetrator or the court. Furthermore, this amendment and supplementation shall regulate and adapt the provisions on conditional judgment, security measures provisions, provisions on the making available of juvenile prisons in respect of the acquisition of reference provisions in a disciplinary centre, the examination of minors in the procedure and other provisions relating to compliance with the provisions of the new law or amending provisions of which the application was questionable and which caused certain difficulties in practice. These changes and additions ultimately lead to a common goal, which is to improve criminal proceedings against minors, minors and adults to the harm of children. Following all of this, we can conclude that the Croatian legal system, the judiciary and the legislation demonstrates exceptional sensitivity in criminal proceedings against and to the harm of minors and this bill further improves and improves the SDP club will certainly support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18437	Thank you, too, Your Honor. Next is the HDZ club and respected representative Ana Lovrin. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18438	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. The HDZ Club will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Juvenile Courts for reasons, as this is another one in the set of law proposals in the area of criminal law which actually bring these laws into line, so they are first and foremost in line with the new Criminal Law. It has already been explained here in detail by the Deputy Minister, and here is a colleague on behalf of the SDP Club indeed in detail, all of these envisaged changes. So, of course, catalogical offices are criminal offenses given the existing, or still in force in the '97 Penal Code. and the new 2011 Penal Code, which will enter into force on 1 January 2013. Likewise with regard to the catalogue of criminal offences at the expense of children. The other provisions, of course, are to improve the existing text and resolve those dilemmas and ambiguities that have occurred in the application. Of course, we all probably all agree that acting in situations where the perpetrator of a criminal offence is a minor must be specific. First of all, it is a sensitive part of society and the primary purpose of conducting criminal proceedings in this case must be to resociate, retraine, and no further criminal infection of this part of society. And that's why the courts for youth were set up, and that's why a special part of the legislation was passed for them. I would perhaps very briefly refer to only one or two provisions, first of all I think it is good that in this part of the legal proceedings it is clear that the second-degree court must declare what will happen next to a minor who is before the power of power at the maintenance of the educational measure. Therefore, this newly-stupulated provision made it clear to the second-degree court that it had to decide on the release or retention of minors in the one who was already on the implementation of the law enforcement measure because, due to a vague provision, this had not always happened so far, so perhaps the decision of the institution itself depended on whether the minor would remain in the institution or would be released. Another important provision seems to me, but I'm not sure that it's the most sophisticated of these changes and additions, so I might suggest or suggest something. It is therefore provisions that prescribe the arrest of minors and the procedure after the arrest. So now this article in 63, which said that under the order of a state attorney, the police will bring the arrested minor to a young man for questioning, and now the judge for youth, etc. This is now changing in a way to say that a state's attorney can order the arrested minor to be released or brought to a youth judge for questioning. I understand the intensity of this proposal and I think it's a good one, not to bring a minor against it, absolutely. And that means the state's attorney has to say whether he's gonna be released or given up for questioning. But with this scholarship, the state's attorney can order this or that, it could be read that he can, that he doesn't have to order anything. So, perhaps you should retain this kind of philosophy as in the current text so that it reads, "According to the order of the state's attorney, the police will release the arrested minor or bring a young judge." Under that, it's a legal order for a state attorney to determine that he has to impose something on the police, or one or the other, as I said, he could understand that he can order something, and he doesn't have to impose anything. Here, so they're also good, here's a little bit of trouble, actually, I don't know the Youth Court Act has a provision on who's a minor, who's a senior, and then he says, it seems to me there somewhere at the beginning that, "A minor who turned 14 and didn't get 18. So the elderly is the one between 16 and 18." Most of the time, I don't know how it corresponds to a new Penal Code that no longer has the definition of a child up to 14 years old, so now even in this law, it's actually missing what happens to those up to 14, who are up to 14, if the minors are 14 to 18, they don't know what they are to 14. Because KZ is no longer children. So now she's a child who's not 18 years old. Here, I'm just referring to a little comparison of the texts of the law and maybe even in this law then somehow those age limits and those terms align. For reasons of compliance with existing legal texts and for the reasons that these amendments have also introduced a series of clarifications which are good for the uniform implementation of the law. We will uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18439	Thank you very much, esteemed MP. We are moving on to a debate of 10 minutes, the esteemed representative Ivan Klarin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18440	Mr. President, Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Amendments and additions to this law, i.e. His compliance with the Penal Code would dare say, creating a stronger and better way of protecting the rights of minors in the process. The point of the changes is that a minor is being reared and that you are given as best and quality socialization as possible after the criminal part has been committed. Any changes and additions concern minors in procedures and must be aimed at the maximum and preventive protection of children, minors and minors. The amendments and additions to this law are specified in the provision that an adult for a crime committed as an elderly minor, who did not turn 21 at the time of the trial, can also be given an educational measure of reference to a disciplinary centre. It is equally precise and a provision that prescribes the application of juvenile law to younger adult offenders of criminal offences. It is significant that young people who are on the verge of life who commit a criminal offence are subject to the provisions of juvenile law, because the aim of sanctioning must be to implement as large and stronger educational measures as possible during the time of the sanctions. The minors are unfortunately perpetrators of serious crimes, so we have witnessed primarily in the past 2 years, I will make 2 examples of the difficult committing of the crime by a minor, and this is the murder of Luke Ritz in Zagreb and severe wounding, i.e. inflicting a serious bodily injury in Sibenik to a young man, Yuri Kulaz, who was also committed by a minor. So, regardless of everything and brutality, I repeat that the goal and essence of both this law and all similar laws is the socialization of minors. It's also about finding alternative sanctions, normally not undermining, not committing any crime. I'm aware of the fact that the victim's family and the victims themselves have prescribed penalties, they'll never be high enough, and that's where I call for that socialization to be directed to the perpetrator if he was a minor, but also to the victim and to the victim's family, because they're really passing, so one Calvary after such tragic events. Unfortunately, minors who commit the crime themselves have been abused, and in more examples, we see that they are victims of domestic violence, which further strengthens this aspect of socialization of the perpetrators themselves. I also welcome the precision of the provision relating to the conduct of the State's attorney, i.e. to avoid re-examination by a state lawyer if he has already been questioned by a youth judge. And finally what the system has done if after such a criminal offence a minor commits punishment so he returns to freedom and commits the crime again I am aware that no one can guarantee that there will be both examples, but it is also the goal of both this law and the system and the Ministry of Justice and the Government of the Republic of Croatia and at the end of the regrets and the Parliament is to help these young people, to help them take the right path to general satisfaction both them normally and the whole society in full. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18441	Thank you, Your Honor. We have exhausted a list of registered clubs and representatives to discuss this topic. The closing word of Deputy Minister of Honor Sandra Artuković Kunšt. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18442	Thank you very much. Well, I'm just going to say that we don't have to remain in debt for this clarification regarding the concept of minors. In fact, we have retained the term of minors because we have to identify ourselves specifically to minors as persons in the range of 14 to 18 years of age who can be held accountable. So, we have the definition of a child as a victim and we have definitely leveled it with criminal law but a minor as a person who between 14 and 18 can be held accountable as a perpetrator of a crime we have kept it because of the specificity of the provisions relating to this age group when it as a perpetrator corresponds. And to have that uniqueness, then we used that term to pass through the law as such to ensure the concept of these provisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-10-18-0.u18443	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill when the conditions are met. We'll stop working now. We'll pick it up tomorrow at 9.30. On the agenda is the first item of the Proposal of the Prosecution Act. I'll see you tomorrow morning, get a good rest and sleep well. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Juvenile Courts, First Reading, CZ No. 173. The debate on the proposal is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion, firstly the proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Juvenile Courts is adopted. Secondly, all objections, proposals and opinions are addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law. I'm asking you to state who's in favour of the proposed conclusion. Thank you. Who's against it? Any coziness? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. Thank you. I find it unanimous, with 119 votes for the proposed conclusion.
