ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6346	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs. On 9 December 2009, the Republic of Croatia is a Party to the Convention of the Centre for the Implementation of the Law of South-Eastern Europe, so-called SELEC Convention. SELEC Convention was established by a law enforcement centre in Southeast Europe based in Bucharest. SELEC Protocol was concluded on 24 November 2010. The protocol was signed by representatives of 12 signatories, including the Republic of Croatia. SELEC Protocol constitutes a legal framework which detailed the privileges and immunities and other reliefs granted to persons acting as SELEC's official duties as well as other persons in accordance with the provisions of the SELEC Convention. SELEC is the legal successor of the SECI Cooperation Initiative for South East Europe as a regional initiative based on the US's April '96 initiative. a year with the purpose of stabilising the region and regional cooperation to prevent all forms of cross-border crime in order to create a better and more attractive environment for potential investors. The Republic of Croatia officially became a member of SECI on 27 September 2000 when a decision was taken to declare the Law on the Confirmation of Co-operation Agreements and the Prevention of Cross-border Crime and the Charter on the Organisation and Action of an Initiative for the Cooperation of South East Europe of the SECI Regional Centre. Considering it a common interest to benefit from the possibility created by the SECI Regional Centre for the Prevention of Cross-border Crime and expecting further development and promotion of the country's mechanism for effective co-operation, the Member States have shown the need to set up an international organisation, SELEC. The objectives and tasks of SELEC shall be to provide support to Member States and to improve coordination in the prevention and repression of serious crime and organised crime where such crime involves or could include elements of cross-border activity, thereby providing support in the investigation and prevention of criminal offences, facilitating the exchange of information, informing each other about perpetrators of criminal offences, collecting and comparing information and intelligence, establishing and maintaining a system of information, and providing operational logistics and, if possible, analytical support to joint investigations. In view of the nature of the procedure, the confirmation of an international contract by which the Republic of Croatia and formally express its willingness to be bound by an already signed international contract and the fact that amendments and additions to the international contract cannot be carried out at this stage of the procedure, it is proposed that this proposal for a law be discussed and adopted by means of an urgent procedure, uniting first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6347	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister Mr. Lalovec. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. Then I can find out that the debate is over, and we'll vote when the conditions are met. We are now going to vote on those agenda points that we have discussed these three days and for which the debate is over. First, the Final Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on Privileges and Immunities of the Centre for Law Implementation in South East Europe, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 64, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? If you have any questions, just let me know. ... We can, because these problems are possible because it's right there that these microphones are being solved as soon as possible, etc. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If you insist on me, there's a reason. Thank you. So once again who's in favour, we haven't put together the votes. Who's in favor of... you did count yourself down, did. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that, unanimously with 113 votes, the Law on Confirmation of the Protocol on Privileges and Immunities of the Law Implementation Centre in South East Europe is in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6350	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and fellow Parliamentarians and MPs. At its meeting on 5 May 2011, the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopted a decision to initiate the procedure for the conclusion of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on police co-operation. In 1996, the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Bulgaria concluded an Agreement on Cooperation between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria in the fight against organised crime, illegal drug trafficking, psychotropic substances and terrorism, and an agreement was concluded between the Ministry of Interior of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of the Republic of Bulgaria on police co-operation on 20 December 2005. The conclusion of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on Police Cooperation establishes a modern legal framework that determines and defines the conduct of police cooperation, police action in accordance with the applicable European standards. The measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The agreement regulates which is before you, the co-operation of the two countries in the field of preventing threats to public order and peace, security and mutual cooperation in the field of prevention, detection and investigation of criminal offences. In particular, the agreement sets out the competent authorities and the area of cooperation of the parties, establishes a specific form of cooperation such as the sending to each other of liaison officers, cooperation in the field of education and training, the exchange of undercover investigators, and prescribes and defines the treatment relating to the protection of personal data information exchanged by the parties. Negotiations for the conclusion of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on police co-operation were conducted by direct correspondence in diplomatic channels. On 27 May 2011, in Sofia, the agreement was signed for the government of the Republic of Bulgaria by Mr Tomislav Karamark of the interior minister and for the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mr Svenov, Minister of the Interior. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Integrations pursuant to Article 16(2). The Law on the conclusion and enforcement of international contracts, together with the opinions of the relevant resolutions, provides the text of the Law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on police cooperation. The Act confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on police cooperation confirms that its provisions within the meaning of Article 140 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union are in force. The Republic of Croatia entered into force and became part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6351	Thank you very much. Now they have a chance to take a word from the committee's reporters. Here you go. Mr. President of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, Representative Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6352	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. The Committee on Internal Policy and National Security held at the meeting on 17 April this year discussed a proposal for a Law establishing an Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on Police Cooperation. The Committee considered the legislative proposal as a parent body. The draft law was introduced by the proposer, and after the debate was conducted, the Committee unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to adopt the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on Police Cooperation. However, let me say a few remarks that the Croatian Parliament may need to consider in further work. This is one of a series of agreements that the Republic of Croatia is signing with other countries on police co-operation. The result of these or the motives of these agreements is to improve these cooperations and relations in the area of crime, terrorism and other items defined by this Agreement. However, as the solution to certain problems creates new problems, this raises the issue of protection of personal data, not in that part that is not disputed when it comes to data resulting from judicial and other judgments, but in operational data that in certain border cases can create problems for individual citizens, in this case to Croatian citizens. In fact, we can theoretically assume that the data on hooligans on sports grounds is exchanged, and then such a single data, basically a benign data that could be someone for 5, 10 or 20 years, can create problems, regardless of what is said here that these operational data under certain conditions must be deleted. Digital forensics assures us that when something enters the system, it can never be erased. My proposal, i.e. the debate on this committee, was that in one, that this clear thing was accepted, it was not a matter of this law or this agreement, but to further or in the Law on Police or Personal Data discuss how these possible cases of adverse consequences of the exchange of such data in certain cases for Croatian citizens how to avoid it. Another problem is that both these agreements and other agreements because it is a type agreement, covert investigators and covert operations are foreseen. So far, it has not been customary to report on these covert operations conducted by foreign countries either to the Parliament or to be an integral part of police reports on police work. This part should be regulated in a way that, at the very least, since sensitive data is involved, operational data which is probably still under the designation of secrecy in the current year, that these reports be part of the police report, or the Ministry of the Interior, but that they may only go to competent committees for internal policy, national security, possibly some more, without necessarily being part of this open report. Here with these notes I said the committee unanimously decided to adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6353	Thank you very much, Professor Tudjman. I'm opening a debate. No one signed up for a word. Thank you very much. The debate on the text of the law is over. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We move to a statement on the final proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on police cooperation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 56, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I would like to conclude that the Act on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria on Police Cooperation in the text was unanimously adopted, as proposed by the Proposer, with 112 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6360	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. In front of you is a proposal for a proposal for a law on designations of origin, geographical indications and marks of the traditional reputation of agricultural food products with the final proposal of the law. Under the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia on full EU membership in Chapter 11. – Agriculture and rural development, we have committed ourselves to fully harmonising that law with the relevant EU regulations, I am talking about Council Regulation No. 5110/2006. on the protection of geographical indications and designations of origin of agricultural and food products and Council Regulation (EC) No 509/2006. on agricultural and food products as guaranteed by traditional specialties. Namely, the current Act on designations of origin and geographical indications and designations of traditional reputation of agricultural food products NN No. 84/08, 75/09. And 20/10. is in part in line with EU rules. I stress that the new law will comply with the provisions of the new Law on General Administrative Procedure of NN No. 47/09. The draft law in front of you regulates the procedure for the protection of designations of origin, geographical indications and the designation of traditional reputation of agricultural food products in the area of the Republic of Croatia. Procedure for the submission of applications for registration and submission of complaints for designations of origin, geographical indications and the traditional reputation of agricultural food products at EU level, organisation of official controls and confirmation of compliance with the specification of products carried out by authorised certified bodies. The current situation regarding registered tags in the Republic of Croatia is the following. We have registered 7 products, it's an Istrian prosciutto with a designation of origin, a Varazdinian cabbage designation of origin, a Polish rival of geographical indications, a meat of Zagorje turkey designation of geographical origin, a character potato, a karst prosciutto and a držno prosciutto of geographical indications. Currently, there are 4 products – extra virgin olive oil designations of origin, ogulinic acid cabbage, or ogulinic acid green designation of origin, Dalmatian prosciutto and baranja tower with geographical origin. It is important to stress that the adoption of this single law simplifies understanding because the existing one had supplements that made it difficult for the end-user only to understand the law. The specificity of this law is reflected in the fact that it represents a broader form of protection of the intellectual property of a producer of agricultural and food products of a specific geographical area through these markings. Manufacturers shall be allowed a monopoly position, i.e. that only they can use the name protected agricultural or food products from a specific geographical area. This is a unique case where the EU allows the monopolistic position of food producers in both the Republic of Croatia and the EU under certain conditions. In addition, the protection of agricultural and food products affects the strengthening of sustainable rural development as the link between rural populations, rural areas and regional indigenous agricultural and food products and consumers is strengthened. The rural area benefits from creating additional value for their products on both national and global markets. Regional and indigenous agricultural and food products contribute to biodiversity, the preservation of cultural heritage, the sociocultural development of rural areas, the reduction of rural depopulation and poverty in our regions. The Ministry of Agriculture will undertake additional efforts and activities under rural development measures and will encourage producers to protect an even greater number of agricultural and food products in order to make the number much greater by the date of entry into the European Union. We will also encourage all activities aimed at presenting the above tags as well as promoting their importance in creating the national and gastronomic identity of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6361	Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club Mr Dragutin Lesar. Here you go, Mr. Representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6362	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. The Croatian Labour Club will support this bill because after a series of changes from the initial law and the first law, we have finally received one bill that was too prepared, especially in line with what is so far extremely important and these are European standards for this area. So I have no objections but really none of the text of the law, but I have two applications to the minister and the ministry as a whole. First of all, I am sure that we would have a far greater list of protected products in any category of Croatia that more knowledge, advice and assistance have been given to manufacturers so far because it is a process and a process that is neither fast nor simple, and groups that have the right to apply for protection, this term is used in the law regardless of the legal form of the manufacturer in legal terms, they do not have enough experience and knowledge to extend the range of products with different labels, and the amount of traditional products, especially food products that we can offer, is certainly greater than what it is. And the other thing is costs, or money. For the costs of the protection procedures for the Croatian area, the minister is regulated by a special sublaw. Minister, I invite you to keep your expenses to a minimum. If you are already getting such a significant power, do not charge people here and encourage us to open as many of these processes as possible. As for the costs of protection in the EU, from Article 44 to beyond this law, I think it would be extremely useful to address as a minister to your colleagues in the area of the economy who have the budgetary means that there is a specific programme of financing, the launch of a non-small protection procedure for the whole of the EU, and under this law falls on the burden of the applicant or a group of producers. I think that by financing such procedures when Croatian producers go with a request for protection for the entire EU market on the burden of the state budget, investment that could quickly and tenfold be returned in terms of the capacities, capabilities and the product palette that Croatia could offer to the European market. So my call to you ministers is to try to find funds for this calendar year with colleagues in the government, to form a programme for any request from Croatia to the EU Commission for Protection for the entire EU market to be financed from the state budget. If that happens, believe me, your report will not have seven resolved cases any second, four in the process, I would like it to be three times more, especially for the EU area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6363	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Club, Mr. Representative Petar Cobanković. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6364	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Let me also say hello to our guests at the gallery who followed us a little bit in the work. Here, let me begin by saying that HDZ will support the adoption of this law for a simple reason, because it is something that Mr. Minister has already said, which is, within the framework of the negotiations of the Republic of Croatia for full membership in Chapter 11, indicated as a commitment that the Republic of Croatia must fulfil. But I do not want to talk about the obligation here, I want to say that this is something that is fully in line with the relevant EU legislation that is something that is of interest to Croatian agriculture and the food industry. Croatia is a country with great diversity, Croatia is a country with great selectivity, Croatia is a country with a large number of indigenous products, as well as different opportunities for the cultivation of individual products. And that's exactly where I see a great opportunity for Croatian agriculture. And I want to point out that there are conjectures being made, these assumptions began to be created in 2008 when the first law was passed. He had his additions in 2009 and 2010, he was partially harmonised, adapted to our current situation and the result was these 7 products that Mr. Minister indicated that they had acquired protection with designations of origin and geographical indications. We also have a number of products that are under way to get these labels. But just getting these markings is getting one specificity. The specificity is that under such a name no one else in the Republic of Croatia, but neither in the EU can produce such a product. And that's that part of the monopolitical status that these products get. I would also like to call on our agricultural producers who, through their organisations, need to work more on getting these tags because here they will now be given the assumption that by adopting a law that is fully in line with EU laws and regulations and EU provisions and thus going towards protecting Croatian agriculture. This is the best form of protection because it has the ability to protect a particular product with any designation of originality, either by protecting geographical origin or by marking a traditional reputation. And that is why I want to point out once again that I accept this as one good thing and that this is a chance for Croatian agriculture. I believe that Croatia has a lot of products that will be able to use these protection codes and that will, in that way, be maintained and I would say higher added value in quality. But having such a mark of the ability to place such products on the EU-wide market creates an assumption that these products also have a higher price class. And that is why it is very important that our farmers, through their associations, go in the direction of the protection of certain products. I am using the opportunity from this pay phone to invite our agricultural producers to butu who will actively create their product, to butu those who will actively participate in creating their future and that is the chance to take advantage of it. This law of course applies to agricultural and food products. As for wine, wine will have a special law where it will also, and I think, wine and the product in which we have gone farthest with the protection of geographical origin, but this EU legislation goes under other regulations and I expect that the Marking and Wine Marking Act will be here in this House. I would therefore like to point out once again that I am also pleased to pass this law in question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6365	Thank you very much for your representative, Cobankovic. And in an individual debate, Mrs. Representative Nancy Tyrelli also appeared. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6366	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, dear ministers. So here is the article of the 5th designation of origin and geographical indication other than the region and place of the label, in exceptional cases and in the country of origin of the product. How much does this make sense in one national law unless the products bearing the designation are original and geographical we have no intention of working on import cheeses. Well, for example, cool or prosciutto work from import pigs. I think it would be bad, and that's why I don't know if it's necessary to put this in exceptional cases and on the land of origin of the product. The need to adopt implementing acts is also a special place in the law. We see in the law regarding implementing acts through almost all these implementing acts there is a sign that the minister prescribes them by regulation. The Minister shall, for example, determine the list of raw materials for the production of Article 5, the data contained in the specification of Article 7, the registration and registration requirements of Article 8, and there shall be many more so as not to list them all individually. So this needs to be regulated further and further by these special regulations. There are currently two regulations, a Regulation on the designations of origin and the geographical origin of food and a Regulation on the recognition of specific food characteristics and the award of a traditional reputation which quite solidly and well regulates this area that we are talking about here. All of this thus indicates that the adoption of this law should be fully covered by all the rules that are now in force. This is a matter of little importance in this bill and everything is passed on to the responsibility of the Minister and the implementing rules whose adoption will therefore be very, very important. Article 51 states that inspection at the level of primary production, production and processing is carried out by inspectors for the quality of food of the ministry. I think that this article may need to be added to the fact that the powers of the inspection supervision are also given to the doctors of veterinary medicine because of this particular regulation above. In my opinion, the Ministry should focus on where and where more support is given in the education of farmers and groups discussed here in the proposal for a law that enters or wishes to go in the process of registering its products, protecting products. The Istrian prosciuttores really worked hard until they got the OI mark and until they got their certificate. Today they are proud of the kind of advisory service that deals with the needs of all the prosciuttos in Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6367	Thank you. Does he want the Prime Minister to conclude? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6368	Dear colleagues and colleagues. I am extremely pleased that, in general, you have almost consensually supported this law, I am talking about compliance with European regulations, with laws. A colleague said she would need a lot of sublegal acts, regulations, so we will have a lot of homework in the ministry itself and will do so without further ado, because this is extremely important as said by a respected colleague, Cobankovic. We can't, although it's done enough and I thank you for what's been done so far, I'm talking about these 7 products, but we can't be satisfied with that amount because we know that in our primary production itself, but also in the processing food that continues on this we have an extremely high quality and a product and raw material from which we can make something that is both tradition and a gastro offer not only on the domestic market but also on the outside. In this part when we talk about the advisory role and the ministry itself, but above all public advisory services and chambers and agencies, we are talking primarily about agencies that work exclusively daily with users, HPA Croatian Agricultural Agency, Payment Agency and the rest in another light will work very hard and be in a way much larger service and much more available to the producers and farmers themselves to facilitate this path towards achieving these opportunities. Costs, costs will in any case be prescribed in a way that protects the interests of our producers and that as many products as we can put into operation so that here I am glad that you supported and I think the law will be good, and we will bring sublaws in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6369	I thank Minister Jakovina. The debate on the text of the law is over. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6370	We move to a statement on the final proposal of the law on designations of origin, geographical indications and marks of traditional reputation of agricultural and food products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 68. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee and by Mr Peja Grbin. I request a statement from the Proposer on these amendments. Here you go, Mr. Minister. Minister of Agriculture Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6371	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6372	The Legislative Committee?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6373	The Legislative Committee has tabled three amendments and all three amendments are accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6374	Thank you. And Mr. Peja Grbin's representative on his amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6375	Dear Mr Peja Grbin has tabled 4 amendments from which the applicant, i.e. the ministry accepts the first amendment, the second and third amendments are not accepted and the fourth amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6376	Are you staying with the amendment or are you giving up? You're giving up. We find that MP Peja Grbin has given up his amendments that have not been accepted by the promoters. Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. I am concluding the debate and voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in favor of accepting this final bill? Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that most of the vote 109 votes for, 3 abstentions have been passed the Law on designations of origin, geographical indications and marks of the traditional reputation of agricultural food products in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted. Next item Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, emergency procedure first and second reading, P.Z. No. 57. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the HDZ Representatives' Club, the SDP Representatives' Club. I would also like Mr. Minister to make a statement on the amendments. If possible first, the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6379	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Since the theme and the Law on the Agricultural Advisory Service and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Service is actually covered by the issue of work of the Agricultural Advisory Service, thanks to the fact that we have received the opportunity to give reasons united. As regards these two laws, one new law and one amendment, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Agricultural Chamber, we can say that we need to make a slightly longer introduction, i.e. a little more clarifications. The establishment of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber in 2009 by the adoption of the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber and the integration of the then Croatian Institute for Agricultural Advisory in the Chamber, unfortunately, are not the results of the desired effects that were intended to be achieved by this law and merger. As a legal follower, Croatia has taken over jobs, employees, equipment, rights and obligations from the Croatian Institute for Agricultural Advisory, but the new establishment of tasks has greatly reduced the importance of the Agricultural Advisory Service as its contribution in the context of expert advice, information, education and in general any type of service for farmers that has been built in the previous 15 years. By acting within the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture, the Public Agricultural Advisory Service has lost its independence in terms of carrying out tasks defined by national legislation. In addition, the chamber uses the full infrastructure of the Public Agricultural Advisory Service, which performs all general financial, accounting, legal and human resources and information services from the chamber office and for the chamber office, the authorities of the chamber, the board of directors, sectoral committees, newly established county regional chambers and, in part, the budgets of the Public Agricultural Advisory Service are used. The members of the expert departments and the departments of the public agricultural and advisory services in the counties shall carry out tasks other than in their work shall be the secretaries in certain sectoral committees and in most cases county regional chambers, the organisers of meetings and meetings, the authorities of the chamber and others, thereby reducing their availability to carry out professional activities and advisory assistance to farmers as primary tasks of fellow Members of the service. The main reason for the adoption of this Act is to take over the legal property of the European Union from the scope of Council Regulation No 73/2009 laying down common rules for direct support programmes for farmers under the CAP of the common agricultural policy and specific programmes and support for farmers. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the It is stated that Member States are obliged to establish a system for consulting farmers on land and economy management, etc. Agricultural and advisory services. These agricultural and advisory services must cover at least the statutory requirements on management and good agricultural and environmental conditions in such a way that farmers can participate well in the system of agricultural and advisory services. The agricultural chamber does not have such a long-term tradition of action as is the case in the countries of the European Union compared to the agricultural chambers of the European countries. The good intentions of organising our chamber should in any case be commended and we hope in the next period and by amending this Act we will further improve the work of the Agricultural Chamber. Unfortunately, once again I say an attempt to organise farmers in the Republic of Croatia in the framework of the Agricultural Chamber has not proved sufficiently effective during this three-year period and has not had a practical model of action such as in chambers that have a much larger tradition in the European Union and are much better organised. The Croatian agricultural chamber has not been profiled as an equal partner to either the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the Ministry of Agriculture in establishing measures of agricultural policy and addressing the current problems of agricultural producers and in general agricultural production. At the same time, the original work of the agricultural and advisory services was stifled in the pursuit of operations related to the functioning of the chamber system as well as the separation of resources provided in the state budget for the operation of the agricultural and advisory services. The adoption of the above-mentioned law, i.e. amendments and additions to the same will abolish membership fees for the members of the Chamber and is introduced, the membership fee for the members of the Chamber has been abolished and a chamber contribution has been introduced which is mandatory for members of the Chamber, direct payments in agriculture, in accordance with the Act on State Support in Agriculture and Rural Development. The Chamber’s contribution also ceases to be paid to the Chamber’s jury account by the Agency for Payments in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, thereby reducing the cash amount to be paid to users of direct payments. As State aid under the Law on State aid in agriculture and rural development is strictly intended for the development of agricultural activity, it is unacceptable to reduce it by the amount of the chamber contribution and to provide users with a significantly reduced amount. The Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development prohibits even the implementation of the implementing act over these funds. A very short clarification of 0.5% of the chamber contribution that was removed directly from the incentives of all people who received direct incentives through the agency, something that was unacceptable and to which we received an awful lot of complaints from the farmers themselves, and as such we had to change it by removing the chamber contribution. When we talk about the amount for 2011 the chamber contribution amounted to nearly 10 and a half million kuna. The suspension of the chamber contribution from the support to be paid from the European Union's resources is not allowed, so this proposal for the law of the Republic of Croatia is harmonising and preparing for almost full membership in the European Union, the start of the application of the common agricultural policy. This way of organising an expert agricultural and advisory service within the chamber system did not finally come upon the approval of end-users, i.e. farmers, and slowly lost the synergy of the action of farmers and advisers in terms of information, education, council adoption, the application of new technologies and other activities, the capacity to increase the competitiveness of the agricultural economy and the willingness to meet the challenges expected in the context of their imminent accession to the European Union. Given above all the fact that the Republic of Croatia becomes a full member of the European Union halfway next year and taking into account all the obligations and tasks imposed by this membership in the agricultural sector, it is necessary to make an urgent reorganisation and to establish new divisions of businesses and this: to form a agricultural and advisory service as a separate and independent professional body, i.e. to restore the status of service that it had while acting as a Croatian Institute of Agriculture and Advisory since 1997. Furthermore, to reorganise the maritime system on the principle of voluntary participation, i.e. the financing of the chamber to comply with the principles of good practice within the European Union, we give the proposal these two laws the following: Proposal for a Law on the Agricultural and Advisory Service shall be established agricultural advisory services and shall list the elements necessary for its operation: the Statute and headquarters of the service, the activity of the service, the service bodies, the statute of service, the means of service, the supervision of the work of the service. The agricultural advisory service in the upcoming period must play a key role in the following activities: implementation of a direct payment system through the mandatory organisation and provision of advisory services related to effective management of economies and the fulfilment of the conditions of multiple compliance. So, environmental protection, conservation of biodiversity, protection of human health, life and plants, animal welfare and protection at work. Further information and education of existing users on the opportunities of the IPARD pre-accession programme for agriculture and rural development as well as future rural development programmes for the period 2014/20, active participation in the preparation and implementation of rural development projects, including the preparation of business plans and project documentation, and all in the function of increasing the usefulness of EU funds for agriculture and rural development. Ensuring professional assistance to farmers with the aim of increasing profits from agricultural activity, increasing the competitiveness of the sector through education and counselling of agricultural producers for the application of modern sustainable production technologies, the association of producers, and the implementation of complementary economic activities on the agricultural holding, the provision of analytical bases for the purpose of creating a measure of agricultural policy and an assessment of its impact due to the functioning of the accounting data system in agriculture, and the implementation of expert supervision in integrated production. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber shall coordinate the affairs of the Chamber in accordance with the applicable agricultural legislation of the tasks, controls, rural development measures and keeping records of direct sales to the agricultural holding shall be abolished as such. Voluntary non-mandatory membership in the Chamber shall be determined. The method of financing the work of the Chamber is amended and the chamber contribution is abolished, i.e. the suspension by means of direct payment. Given their importance, the government of the Republic of Croatia expects the Croatian Parliament to support both draft laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6380	I thank the minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. First on behalf of the clubs. On behalf of the SDP club, a respected representative, Marija Vukbratovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6381	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, colleagues and fellow MPs. Almost every debate on agriculture at any level raises great attention. I kind of feel like it's going to be like this today. It's actually completely understandable for at least two reasons. The first reason is that over half of the population of the Republic of Croatia lives from agriculture as a major or additional source of income, lives in the country or is connected to the village in any other way. The second reason is that food production should be a priority for each country. The larger production and the smaller imports should be pursued by each government, however, since agricultural production is extremely complex and demanding, it is not a simple business at all. This is why agricultural producers need to be given all the help they can get, to relieve them of their foreign jobs, and to enable them to devote themselves fully to jobs that they know, love and want to do. That's what the Department of Agriculture's proposals are up to right now. It is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber and the Law on the Agricultural Advisory Service. The Croatian Chamber of Agriculture was established in its Statute with the aim of promoting, protecting and representing the interests of members, education, consulting and providing support to members of the Chamber and providing incentives for value, preservation and promotion of agriculture and rural space. The activity of the chamber included two activities that were later regulated by some other laws. This is the control of rural development measures and keeping records of direct sales to agricultural holdings. What laws are regulated by the motionor and there is no need to repeat it. In addition, these two activities, the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture has not actually performed until now, so their exemption from the activity of the chamber should not change anything significantly. The new bill also suggests that membership in the chamber should be voluntary, not mandatory, as well as abolishing the chamber's contribution, and yet introducing membership fees as it stood in the law and when the chamber was established. Both reasons for the amendment were explained and argued and we agree with them. I want to point out here that contrary to some of the statements we've been able to hear in the last few days, he doesn't want the chamber to be lifted. No one considers it unnecessary and nothing important should change in its business. The chamber will continue to associate farmers, represent their interests in the country and abroad, and will continue to be financed from different sources. From the national budget for the performance of certain activities, from the memberships of own and exceptional incomes achieved. It will therefore continue to exist and to act. From now on, however, management and administration will need to put much more effort into their membership, be more at their service and be more available than they have been so far. In the new structure of the chamber will have to achieve results that will justify its business. So, besides today, everyone in the market is fighting for their positions. For example, colleges, institutes, and even high schools. So that's the area I'm most familiar with, so I took him as an example. All of them must have as high-quality programs as possible, certified programs, as qualified as possible, as better equipment as possible, as flexible working hours and as only in this way can survive. With the recognition of all the good that has been done in the chamber over the past three years, she has not fully justified her existence, at least not in some key aspects of her mission, which is education, counselling, supporting members or at least not evenly in all parts of Croatia. By talking to 15 of the biggest state support users in my county, and also somewhat wider, I have not heard that they have benefited greatly from the chamber or any other aid. In fact, they told me that if they called or asked for information, they mostly didn't get it. No one has ever called or asked for their opinion or opinion on the rules adopted on state administration bodies or local and regional (regional) self-government, which is the first point in the list of tasks and activities of the chamber. Afterwards, I spoke to small farmers, counting that if the already successful farmers needed no help because they showed their achievements that they could do these things for sure. And their answer, unfortunately, was the same. What agricultural producers recognize the institutions of which they benefit and who they mainly address for assistance is the Agricultural Advisory Service. The agricultural advisory service, which has worked since its draft under different names, had its highest rise in the late 1990s and early 2000s. Using the World Bank's loan, they acquired equipment, cars and computers, from 80 employees in that period grew to 250 today and what is most important most of them are well trained to carry out the consulting activities. Several of them have been trained through some of the largest European training centres – Denmark, Finland, Germany, Ireland, and later they themselves became coaches for new advisors. Farmers of the Agricultural Advisory Service who are at least highly educated, and among them the magistrate and doctor of science, are not only top experts but also great enthusiasts. They don't know working hours, they don't care about weather accidents, holidays or weekends, they're in the field whenever their parties ask them to. It was at least effective and least effective in the period from 2011. when it became an integral part of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. By taking over the Croatian Institute for Agricultural Advisory, the Croatian Agricultural Chamber also assumes all jobs and obligations, but also employees, equipment, rights and financial resources. The advisory service thus loses its autonomy in several ways. It loses its independence in decision-making, free available resources and infrastructure, independence in its working time and independence in decision-making and the creation of its own actions and programmes. Worse and unquality performs its primary task, which is informing and consulting farmers. We believe that the proposal from the Ministry of Agriculture on the re-establishment of the Agricultural Advisory Service as an independent specialised public institution is particularly good and has multiple benefits for the direct users of their services. Service workers are the most competent and qualified fit because they have united knowledge, expertise and experience and represent a bond between science and direct production. Through day-to-day contacts with farmers, they have an impact on their information, and advice can help them adapt as much as possible to the conditions of the common agricultural policy after joining the EU. They also play an important role and will have an even bigger role in helping to use pre-accession funds and later support funds. For all these reasons, the SDP club will support the adoption of these laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6382	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. In the name of the HDZ club, a respected representative, Petar Cobankovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6383	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. Let me say a few sentences concerning this united debate on the amendment of the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber and the Law on the Agricultural Advisory Service. What I would like to point out in the beginning on behalf of the club, and that is what we said in the adoption of the agenda, we stand at the point where this and the above reasons for the urgency of the procedure and for the first and second reading were not justified but, unfortunately, the Croatian Parliament accepted most of the votes that these two drafts of the law go into emergency procedure and unfortunately there is nothing more we can do about it. They were not justified because the issue of regulation of the Agricultural Chamber is not something regulated by the common agricultural policy. It is based on national legislation and in different ways in all EU countries. So there is no talk of harmonising with the common agricultural policy or harmonising with the EU acquis because it is not regulated through the EU acquis. Another thing that I would consider very important for here to point out, and I would also like to say at the very beginning that I believe that there was reason to go to the amendments and additions to the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber but what we consider to be unacceptable is to change and introduce volunteering into the membership of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. This is considered inadmissible for a simple reason because the chamber system in the Republic of Croatia does not know volunteering. In all segments where certain activities are regulated through the chamber, we can see about the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, members of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce are all legal and natural persons who carry out economic activities based in the field of the Republic of Croatia. It is similar in all professional chambers, including the Veterinary Chamber, which states in Article 14. "Membership in the chamber is mandatory for all veterinarians performing veterinary activities in the field of the Republic of Croatia". And now I don't want to list those in the craftsman's office, the medical chamber, the architects, the building chambers and the like. In all these chambers, membership is an obligation. And that is why I am standing at the stand and we are standing at the position that in Croatia the agricultural chamber should also retain mandatory membership. Proposal for that law pursuant to Article 4. The abolition of compulsory membership in Croatia is proposed to reduce the importance and role of farmers in the Republic of Croatia. Because how to interpret it differently than that only in the Agricultural Chamber is membership not an obligation. It means that the role of farmers in the Republic of Croatia is not equal or should I say the same as some other professions. We don't think that a mandatory membership of one chamber can be lifted, and not in other chambers. If we want to go in the direction of changing the system chamberically, if we want to go on a voluntary basis, then we suggest that this goes parallelly and go in the direction that with all the chambers, the obligation of membership is lifted. In particular, I mean the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce who also collect their membership fees for members who are required to be and no one asks them whether they want to be members of the Chamber of Commerce or whether they want to be members of the Chamber of Commerce, but they must be members of those chambers in accordance with the law, and if they do not regularly comply with their obligations regarding membership, then also through the Tax Administration and through the executive procedure they will be charged. Or when they need confirmation of the lack of debt to the Tax Administration if they have a debt to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, unfortunately they will not get confirmation of what we hold very important. And not to mention professional chambers where membership is also an obligation. You cannot practice veterinary practice in the Republic of Croatia unless you are a member of the Veterinary Chamber. You can't be a lawyer if you're not a member of the bar. And then I think it's wrong for one chamber, the chamber that's being told by the way, probably the youngest to end its obligation to join, and the others to hold on. So we suggest that we consider this fact well because frankly speaking here you refer to the Constitution as an explanation. I stand on the stand that it could be otherwise asked, so that the constitutionality of making such a decision could be asked where membership is removed from the obligation to volunteer. I therefore believe that it is not good for the membership of the Croatian agricultural chamber in Article 4 to be voluntary and to abolish mandatory membership. As for some other proposals, I have no objection to regulation and to abolish the chamber contribution because I do not believe that this was a good solution but that the chamber through its bodies will determine the matter of membership fees, membership fees that will be appropriate and that farmers will be able to pay. As for the second law, my basic remark is found in Article 1 where it is said that this law establishes a Agricultural Advisory Service. The agricultural advisory service in the Republic of Croatia celebrated 20 years of existence last year. It existed in different forms, in different forms, but with the role of the Public Agricultural Advisory Service it began in 1991 when it was part of the ministry and later transformed into an independent institution. Second of all, you're saying that certain tasks inside the chamber have been done by employees of the Agricultural Advisory Service, yes. But it should also be pointed out that through the form of financing the work of the advisory service, the funds also used by the Croatian agricultural chambers that were collected on the basis of the contributions are also used. Somewhere in the amount of about 3 million kuna were funds from the Croatian Agricultural Chamber and thus a presumption was created, these funds were mainly used for field exits, travel expenses and the like. All created a higher operationality of the Public Agricultural Advisory Service. We can discuss whether it's a better form of independence or whether it's a better form to be in... the system of the Agricultural Chamber. [[You don't understand.]] Experiences are different. In certain European countries, as I have said, this problem is not regulated by the common agricultural policy but is left to the possibility that countries can regulate this area themselves. There are different forms. In those forms of countries that were our role model, which is France and Austria Agricultural Advisory Service has been in the system of the Agricultural Chamber and is very well functioning. And of course, there's an excuse that the best way to function is if her bosses are the ones she's supposed to work for. And the advisory service should be in the position of farmers and therefore is not considered even, it was not considered bad if it is in the system of the Agricultural Chamber which unites all farmers in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and in a way that they will be those who direct the work of the Agricultural Advisory Service. Of course, the Agricultural Advisory Service, in front of the Agricultural Advisory Service, is a great task, a great task. I would like to say that the Agriculture Advisory Service has done its utmost to date those tasks. I would also like to emphasise the great contribution of the Agricultural Advisory Service to the establishment of the ARCOD where it has done a very important job for the Republic of Croatia, a job that has been important and which has been, together with the employees of the Payment Agency, employees of the Croatian Agency and the Agricultural Advisory Service, made a major contribution to establishing the ARCOD in the Republic of Croatia and which has certainly contributed significantly to the removal and certain criteria that have been set for Chapter 11, but also to creating assumptions for the conclusion of the negotiations. Of course, before the Agricultural Advisory Service in the coming period are the following tasks, the tasks that the legislative framework brings to them, from the law on the assistance of the Republic of Croatia which is fully in line with the acquis of the EU, but also to what within the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture, within the framework of the advisory service in these years or something more, and has started to develop significantly, and this is the strengthening of those departments that should be in the function of designing certain programmes, projects related to our agricultural economies where, unfortunately, the educational power of our farmers would not be exposed to sometimes very high prices for the production of certain projects, the programmes by private agencies that I am experiencing have to be and to form a specific programme and project because unfortunately, the educational power of our farmers is still not at such a level that a good part of the necessary projects could be done themselves. That was seen on... Powers related to SAPARD, but also now on IPARD and precisely using and advisory services, but also individual agencies are heading in the direction, I am personally convinced that the use of IPARD will be significantly higher than the use of SAPARD. [[You don't understand.]] SAPARD was used in the paid-out section with 48%, I am convinced that IPARD will be used in both this and next year that it will be very close to maximum efficiency. Because if we follow up on recent tenders, the increasing number of requests is increasing, the growing number of requests that meet the criteria for achieving these pre-accession funds. But there is no need to ignore both the importance and role of the advisory service that it will have and in the approach period when we will have significant resources far greater than that of pre-accession assistance, that is over 350 million, 353 million. Since 2014 Croatian farmers will be available through rural development measures. This is huge money and, of course, the role of the Agricultural Advisory Service will be significant. From what I have said so far, I would like to stress that the Croatian Democratic Community club will not support these two draft laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6384	I thank my esteemed colleague, Peter Cobankovic. And now the views of the Croatian Labour Party will be presented to us by the two legislative proposals by the distinguished representative Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6385	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. So here is the assessment of the situation of the Proposer identifies three groups of problems that require changes and additions to the Law on Croatia's agricultural chamber by emergency procedure: harmonisation with the Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development and with the Law on Agriculture, harmonisation with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, chamber contributions, its collection. The proposer argues that the control of rural development measures by the Law on State Support for Agriculture and Rural Development is given to the Agency for Payments in Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, and that this authority must therefore be deleted in the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. Unfortunately, the promoter provided for the fact that it is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Support in Agriculture and Rural Development of the National Journal of 124/2011 that this power is just given to the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture. I quote: "Administrative control of requests for support within... the measure is implemented by the Payments Agency, and the control on the ground is carried out by the Payment Agency and the Croatian Agricultural Chamber." The Agriculture Act stipulates that the Minister in charge of Agriculture will also prescribe a way of keeping records of the sale of own products on agricultural holdings in Article 24(2). The truth is, the minister prescribes a way to keep records, but not who keeps the records. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The keeping of this record is the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber Article 4 sub-paragraph 8 placed in the section of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber and not by any positive regulation that authority is given to anyone else. The Proposer further considers that, contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, Article 43 of the freedom of association of the provisions of the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, membership in the Chamber is mandatory and that members of the Chamber of Agricultural Economics are registered in the register of agricultural holdings. At first glance, however, the problem may seem to be correctly seen, but when it is looked at how this problem is arranged for the Croatian Chamber of Commerce or for the Croatian Chamber of Commerce or for any other Chamber acting on the territory of the Republic of Croatia, the problem ceases to be simple. The Croatian Chamber of Commerce Act 66/91 and 73/91 of Article 2(1) states that members of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce are all legal and natural persons who carry out economic activities based in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. It is further regulated that legal persons become members of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce by enrolment in the court register and physically become members of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce through their associations, or alliances. So there's no choice. If you are engaged in economic activity and have a seat in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, you are a member of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce whether or not you wanted to do so despite membership 43. The Constitution. The Law on crafts of the National Journal 49/2003 cleared text 68 of 2007 and 79 of Article 67(3) stipulates that craftsmen become members of the Croatian Chamber of crafts on the day of enrolment in the trade register, and Article 6 of the same article stresses that membership in the Croatian Chamber of crafts is mandatory. So neither does Article 43 here. The constitution is not respected. The Croatian Agricultural Chamber Act, National Journal 30 of 2009 and 127 of 2010 states that membership in the Chamber is mandatory. Article 10(1) provides that members of the Chamber shall be natural and legal persons entered in the Register of Agricultural Economics. It is apparent from the above that all three laws recruited their membership in an equally anti-constitutional manner by enrolment in the court register, registration in the trade register and registration in the register of agricultural holdings. In all three cases, membership is mandatory and membership becomes the same anti-constitutional way, which means that the Law on the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the Law on crafts is necessary to comply with the Constitution. If we accept the provisions under which membership in the Chamber is voluntary then it is necessary to regulate the attitude of the Chamber towards non-members of farmers in view of its division and powers. In addition, the question arises, "What about the agricultural holdings that are coming out of the Chamber?" If they must then access the Chamber of Commerce or the Chamber of Commerce or they can use their constitutional right not to simply join anyone. In view of all of the above, we propose that Articles 4, 5 and 9 of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber be deleted until the role, part round and powers of the Chamber are considered in the terms of voluntary membership. In addition, we believe that the constitutionality of related chamber laws must also be considered as soon as possible. The promoter correctly noted that the provisions suspending the chamber's contribution by means and automatically transferring it to the Chamber account are not quite a good solution and that it should be changed. Although they are not so blasphemy and a violation of the European acquis that the Proposer wishes to show us. The Chamber of Commerce and crafts has a similar parafiscal way, so the issue of contributions or membership has been resolved and so far it has never occurred to anyone to change. This question, of course, needs to be arranged differently but not by an emergency procedure in some vengeful effect. For the quality functioning of the Chamber needs satisfactory and stable funding if we certainly want to have it. Croatia needs a chamber and needs to be further strengthened in order to be a credible representative, protector and promoter of the interest of Croatian agriculture, not a marginalist under the terms of Croatia's membership in the European Union. Although Article 3(6) and Article 7 The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber in a relatively acceptable manner regulates membership fees, i.e. the contribution of the opinion stated above that it is not necessary to open this issue for now but to reject the proposal in full. The proposer accidentally warned in his assessment of the situation of one of the illogicalities that needed to be removed as soon as possible. This illogicality lies in the next finding that many farms are registered as crafts or companies, members of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce or the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. Why? Because, as members of the Chamber of Commerce or the Chamber of Commerce, certain rights and benefits that do not exist as members of the Agricultural Chamber. For example, the holder of the family holding as a member of the Chamber of Commerce can legally employ workers, has the benefits of importing or exporting products and services, of paying VAT only to the bill charged, etc. All such rights and benefits as a farmer as a member of the Chamber of Commerce or the Chamber of Commerce could and should have as a member of the Agricultural Chamber in which he or she belongs by nature. In view of the above, we propose that the Ministry of Agriculture work on this issue and to propose amendments and additions to the Agriculture Act to which this illogicality would be removed. As for public agricultural advisory services, however, the Government of the Republic of Croatia's decision to reduce the costs of the state budget implementation and the rationalisation of the same budget was attached to the Croatian Chamber of Commerce on 1 January 2011 with 252 employees and a budget of €38.7 million. Today, the Advisory Service employs 239 employees with a planned budget of 39 million and 50 thousand kuna. And by intensification of self-resistance with the reason that this law is adopted in order to comply with EU practice. The Government's proposal states that the Agricultural Advisory Service must cover at least laws, prescribed management requirements and good agricultural and environmental conditions. The Advisory Service shall also carry out the same tasks in its existing form. In the proposal for the activities of the Advisory Service, the letter is identical to the existing activity with the addition of regular no. Six. – Participation in the implementation of the IPARD programme and rural development measures and on a regular basis No. 13. – implementation of expert supervision in integrated production that employees are currently carrying out. Therefore, it is proposed that the Advisory Service be left alone to justify increasing the volume of work related to the EU Agriculture Directive. And in proportion to that, there is also a reduction in jobs. According to Article 19, which states that the service of the taken over officials and tenants will offer the conclusion of the Labour Treaty in accordance with the labour regulations on those who cannot be offered the conclusion of the contract because they cannot be deployed will be cancelled in accordance with the labour regulations. What are these reasons why they cannot be deployed when they are doing exactly what is foreseen by this bill, and what is it that we should or should do? And something else, no less important, IPARD tenders are being conducted by the Payments Agency. At present, the work of the Public Agricultural Advisory Service is managed by the chair, and the new law provides for the service bodies to be the administrative council and director by making the administrative council president and four members of which the president and three members of the Board of Directors appoint and resolve the Government on a proposal from the Minister of which the president and one member are representatives of the Ministry, and two members of representatives of professional organisations in the field of agriculture and rural development. One member is elected by employees in accordance with the rules on work. The Governing Council shall take decisions by majority of the votes of the total number of members of the Governing Council. Only a remark, five of them are appointed and resolved by the government on a proposal from the minister. I ask myself what if the board of directors makes a decision contrary to the wish of the minister or ministry, given the assessment of the situation on the ground or the procedures under way? And then this same board of directors, based on a public tender, appoints and resolves the director and the deputy. How smart it is now that we are on our way into the EU to wait for the Agricultural Advisory Service to register as an independent legal entity and wait for its new structure, regardless of what we have said that employees are still doing exactly those jobs that stand in the description of the new bill. Why, for example, the Ministry of Agriculture. has not given an emergency procedure in the parliamentary procedure the problem of state land when we know that 90,000 hectares of state land have not been solved by ownership? And this is also one of the burning issues before full EU membership, and I would dare say perhaps the most important issue regarding the EU regulation and agriculture itself in Croatia. Last year, the Agricultural Advisory Service borrowed to say so from a chamber contribution of 1.2 million kuna to its regular business. This information itself gives us the impression that the business of the Agricultural Advisory Service in the form proposed by the Government and the Ministry will require much more funding from the budget this year, not just the difference of 350,000 kuna. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6386	I thank my colleague Tyrelli. The next 15 minutes are scheduled for the debate on behalf of the HNS club to be shared by two esteemed MPs. These are distinguished representatives Petar Baranovic and counterpart Ivica Mandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6387	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary, dear colleagues and colleagues. It's amazing how much we run around this house regardless of how much we do formalism and how much we run from the truth. As much as we're in shape, and we're ignoring the content that comes out of form. I will today, of course, as everyone on behalf of my club in this point, talk about the youngest chamber in Croatian society, the chamber which is the youngest member of the family of Croatian chambers that are irresistiblely reminded of a family of which our great literature has written in its own time. And it's about the Glemba family. As in the story, and when it comes to this youngest member of this famous family, then there is no need to ignore the content that even its members did not dispute yesterday when we spoke, and the content refers to both how and how this chamber was formed as well as everything else. In order not to think that something particularly bad exists in the habitat of the Agricultural Chamber, even by reading its statutes and knowing the form, but also the content of some other related statutes, this statute of the Agricultural Chamber might also be praised. It is in one section concerning the constitutional right to choose and be chosen rather avant-garde compared to some other recent statutes of chambers in Croatia. The agricultural chamber is something that Croatian farmers also need and, of course, the ministry as a partner as other resolution ministries need chambers because they are the best organised form of interest representation. However, not in a way that eclantly violates the fundamental constitutional values that exist in Croatian society. In particular, Article 43 of the Constitution, which clearly states that free and interesting association is guaranteed to all citizens of the Constitution. When you look at the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber and the Statute that is in conformity with the law, then it clearly states what are the basic tasks of this chamber as well as other chambers. It is an interesting representation both abroad and in the country of arbitration, a verdict on mutually possible exchanges of interest. There is no doubt that there is an interest in association and no doubt such an institution cannot be subject to mandatory membership. We could then, of course, extend the debate to the nature and conditions in which other chambers in Croatian society function but they are not on our agenda today. Likewise, this proposal also discusses the way in which the funds are charged. In such associations, there is a suspension of the allocations of direct payments in agriculture is indeed a means of purpose and this is indeed so defined in the legal acquis of the EU. So the legislator is absolutely right. So that someone doesn't misread the HNS supports the existence of another emphasis on the agricultural chambers. We are even of the opinion that the ministry that needs it as a partner must take certain measures in a financial sense in order to ensure the elemental functioning of that institution, but the administration itself must escape from the way it was created, cleanse itself of politics and start a credible principle and extra-party representation of the interests of its membership. And then membership won't be questionable. My personal experience with some other similar systems in my profession doesn't say that's the case. In fact, the way these institutions function is such that individual presidents last as long-standing monarchies, that they no longer know the number of mandates, that in the top of such institutions the garden is forever the same people, forever the same miss, forever the same lack of ideas. Likewise, political control of such institutions is seen from the plane, then and in the situation of membership in such an institution is mandatory. No one in the modern democratic constitutional state has the right to force anyone after paying taxes, after paying taxes, to participate in the financing of such institutions. Given that this bill, among other things, removes such an anomaly in the first such case, that this bill removes any other irregularities and discrepancies related to how the Croatian People's Party finance will support this bill proposal, noting that this is certainly not the first one, and that it will very soon because this will certainly open up public debates and Pandora's box will certainly be in place because very certainly in this assembly's meeting and some similar drafts of the laws of some other resolute ministries. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6388	Thank you. The remaining almost 8 minutes will be used by the distinguished representative Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6389	Mr. Vice President, distinguished ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. In most of the debates so far, the HNS Club has almost the same attitude with all colleagues in view of the problems they have touched. What is also important here to note that the organisation of agriculture and agricultural production for the Republic of Croatia and its stability is certainly of great importance. I would try in these few minutes to touch that part that is very important for the implementation of the agriculture policy in the Republic of Croatia, for the organisation of agricultural production and for efficiency. What I'd like to say here is that today some of the exhibitors mentioned that an advisory service organization is bound to be in '91. A year. I would say that the Republic of Croatia is a much more advanced country because the way the Advisory Service was run in the Republic of Croatia has been known since '54. A year. However, not under the name Agricultural Advisory Service, but agricultural stations. They had essentially a task and a role to support, organise and train agricultural producers on as high-quality production as possible. We have also heard here that there are several ways of organising advisory services in the EU, but in all EU countries, the advisory service is mandatory and is in the service of the development of agricultural production. The proposer proposes that the advisory service have independence. We at the HNS think it's a good thing and then we have one responsibility. And why we believe in HNS that this is good, because I would like to try to present to you how the advisory services at the level of county organizations work on those jobs they do. 15% of the jobs of the county district offices of the advisory service are related to organisational affairs. 38% of professional jobs and imagine this data 47% of administration, meaning administrative jobs. Given the qualification structure or the education that all highly educated persons who are engineers, masters, science doctors, we take advantage of their way of taking advantage of them as mere administrators. We in HNS believe that this is the way to use a very vital, very significant service must be at least the opposite that the majority refers to organisational and professional affairs, and that administration can only be about 17%. Speaking of which, I'd like to touch the way the advisory service has been communicating with family economies, with agricultural producers. In the structure of their communications are 24% lectures, 11% shows, 9% manifestations and 56% written material. So we start at the end, 56% of the written material, now imagine a family economy where it's owned by a family economy that's over 50 years old. Now he's going to read some sort of 20-page material. Make sure that communication isn't good. The proposal of the Croatian People's Party club according to the advisory service to organise the way communication is best, which communication is best to say directly by interested producers. Are those manifestations, is that... a particular economy or way one that will benefit the most and roles in improving the quality of agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia. [[You don't understand.]] Furthermore, we in the HNS believe that very important production depends not only on the ministry, it depends not only on the Agricultural Chamber, it depends not only on the advisory service, it is not only on the Payment Agency, but we believe that it is a unique body that can synchronisedly obtain the greatest effects and the greatest results for the repair of the situation in the Republic of Croatia. The fact that the current mode of operation of both the agricultural chambers and the advisory services was not the best talk about the way, the withdrawal of funds that could have been a significant generator and the repair of the agricultural production situation. Yesterday we were on the board talking about where individual consulting companies are selling paste-copy to agricultural economies the same program with a changed name only. We believe that this independent action of the advisory service must take on more responsibility and that the advisory service at the request of the user must be able to carry out part of the project, part of the programme. Normally such activities must also be supported by the Ministry of Agriculture because it is of interest both to the progress of our country and to the progress of agricultural production that as much as possible of the funds that are for rural development we need and to withdraw. Also, another important point in which I believe that the Agricultural Chamber and the Advisory Service must act in synergy that agricultural producers are convinced that training is also very important in the area of professional training for the performance of the job, because with the entry into the EU that will be very soon, 1.7.2013 will be a completely different rule for withdrawal and direct incentives. I therefore believe that this time ahead must be used by farmers to be able and to be quality and that special departments dealing with rural development will certainly be established in the advisory service and that this transmission will be to agricultural producers to withdraw funds. And I think it's one of the main activities in the coming time, the withdrawal of quality funds for rural development. The Croatian People's Party will support the proposal both on the chamber and on the advisory service. We'll vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6390	Thank you, colleague Mandic. Before we move to an individual debate, we have yet to hear more views of the HDSSB club. I would like to invite the honourable representative, Zoran Vinkovic, to the Assembly's pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6391	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. A colleague here said that most representatives are engaged in formalism and suffer from formalism, but talk about Croatia's agricultural advisory service and Croatia's agricultural chamber in any case cannot be analysed without a little analysis of the situation in agriculture. The situation in agriculture, which this year added to this ministry's decision, has deteriorated, as it has been reduced through the state budget direct incentives, direct investments in agriculture, and especially in Slavonia and Baranja by nearly a billion and a half kuna, which will have long-term consequences for development, but also for the survival of Croatian agriculture in Croatia, on the Croatian market, and also on the world and European market. This year, unfortunately thanks to such measures and the beginning of the year itself, is marked by a large protest of dairy farmers, the protests of family farms are moving soon, they are late with the incentives of 2011, and Croatia's public and all those involved in agricultural production must be clear that even the lack of incentives has not yet been paid for 2012 but will be much lower, paid in 2013. There are certainly numerous items available by selling and renting agricultural land that have been standing in ministry drawers for years or months. There are also errors in local self-government where they have not adequately called these competitions. There is no competition in the world that can satisfy all those who report to this contest, but in any case, the ministry that gives consent to this land must take part in its responsibility, not politically address this hot and burning problem of Croatia, especially Slavonia and Baranja. And what's most interesting is this isn't fictional data for 2011 we're being defeated by the tendency that this will happen in 2012. Loss of external trade of agricultural and food products where for 2011, almost all agricultural products have been taken. Our deficit or export is far less than imports of agricultural products for nearly a billion and a half kuna where we have really imported everything and everything or it is a billion and 32 million kuna plus some 400 million kunas of dried leaves, branches, mated tea and I don't know what. There's all this data in the statistics tables. But it is not necessary to look at this data so much, but it is easy to walk into this store here on Mark's square and ask yourself, really, and see what is really the situation in Croatian agriculture. This rotten pear is located in shelves that are probably coming out of a freezer, which warns that Croatia does not have enough accommodation facilities for fruit and vegetables. I wouldn't eat it because it comes from one side of the country. Not because it's from a foreign country but it's been sprayed by various means as soon as it's taken out into the air, it's started to rot, it's coming from Italy, while probably our fairies producers couldn't even make brandy, but they probably had to give it to pigs if they got an incentive for pigs that we also import in a huge number. This one's probably coming out of the freezer right now, and it's coming from Austria. In the last few years, Croatia has raised permanent plantations in fruit growing. They just don't have anywhere to put an apple. This is usually a gloster, and it could be a gold divisor. But we'll see by the end of the exposure how it changes that color. Luke. They wouldn't let me bring potatoes because they sold it in those five-pound bags so I couldn't handle it. But he was also imported from Cyprus and Egypt. Luke was imported from Austria. Obviously, the Croatian country is not fertile enough, nor is Slavonia, nor is it for the famous character potatoes protected among other things. Mr. Cobankovic, you have had plenty of time as Minister to improve and reduce imports, and to increase the export of agricultural products with measures, that this onion, onion, onion, we must import from Austria. That garlic or garlic we're importing from China, unfortunately. The contingent is expected to arrive on the plane. Tomato or tomato as we call it in Slavonia or apple still green. He'll probably mature in 15 days at the store. Import a little here from southern Mediterranean parts although obviously we can't do it in the Neretva Valley. This is from Spain. It is clear to me that this, this Croatia obviously cannot make dried plums, and otherwise there are Dalmatian figs packed in Serbia. The next day, but here come these dried plums from Serbia. And now that I'm not counting and so on, it's clear to me that we have to import bananas, because that's obviously not working in Croatia, Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament. Maybe if you make it, then you'll patent it. But anyway, we certainly need to import this and that price of these bananas, I believe they're not organically produced because they don't have that organic product label. So this is a visionary representation of the situation in Croatian agriculture, not to mention that we also import basic agricultural products such as milk, such as corn, such as wheat, such as pork, such as beef. I didn't buy a kilo of lamb or half that lamb because it would have been defrosted, so it would have been a bit of a mess here. Imports from New Zealand, etc. etc. The ministry itself is therefore asked to go into solving these problems, problems, and in fishing not to import those tunas from Thailand, or I don't know where, but to have Adriatic tuna, Adriatic fish and fresh fish in Croatian shops in those cans or cans. These laws will go back to these laws because I see time slowly running out. The HDSSB Club is very aware of the situation in agriculture since we come from the region which is the backbone of Croatian agriculture, the foundation, houses and roof. Other regions give what makes the house a house, but Slavonia and Baranja is the one that once together with that Vojvodina could feed half of Europe. Today, unfortunately, Slavonia and Baranja cannot feed themselves. And it's not those who work on that land who spill and work honestly. They have those who don't work fair, so they take only incentives. But for that, there are agricultural inspections, competent institutions. But that's another story. These laws, the HDSSB club also said in the adoption of an emergency procedure and believes that these laws should not go according to an emergency procedure because they do not have the conditions laid down in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, and they do not have a European code. So we really don't see the reason for the emergency procedure of these two laws. I have to be honest here and say that the applicable law was passed solely for the purpose of setting up investigations of the then coalition partners of HDZ and HSS which I believe are still sitting in the assembly, regardless of the suspension and exclusively the establishment of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber of Commerce meant the entanglement of HSS personnel where almost all the leaders and the Agricultural Chambers were from HSS and came from those parts that have far fewer family economies than for example. Osijek-Baranja County, etc., etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6392	Forgive my colleague Vinković, I will interrupt you for a moment to inform all my colleagues and fellow representatives and MPs that there are members of the Committee on Audit of the Republic of Finland Parliament who is on a working visit to the Republic of Croatia at the gallery of the Croatian Parliament. It's an honor to welcome them. . [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6393	I also welcome them, but I will continue speaking Croatian in the Croatian Parliament. There is also a question, in any case, and I personally believe that every membership in any chamber should be voluntary and that the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture and any other chamber should primarily be financed from the membership of its members in no way from the state budget, so it is normal to ask what is the matter with all other chambers operating in the Republic of Croatia from the primarily Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce? Because if something applies to the Agricultural Chamber of Commerce should apply to all other chambers, from the Chamber of Engineers, from the Chamber of Architects, lawyers, doctors, dentists, I don't know what there is, because obviously it was created and it's not the family of Glembaev's Mr Baranovic, but in the end line, not wanting to offend the members of that chamber, laws have been passed by which, indeed, if someone goes out to the competition and wants to offer a particular project at the market prices in public competitions, and if they reduce that price then they consider it to be a violation of the rules of the chamber so that certain chambers are similar to that of the Corleone family. But given that in this greeting delegations time slowly leaks I will only remind myself of why the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture should remain, this law should go to another reading, it is necessary to open discussions that are related to all other chambers so that indeed this Croatian Parliament would not make a decision for one chamber, and to reward others with mandatory membership and compulsory payment in the existing law. The issue of the Advisory Service is a question I have asked in the past. I also felt it was not good at the time that the Agricultural Advisory Service, regardless of what some countries have built in it and is also funded from the State budget, but the Advisory Service should have stayed with the Ministry of Agriculture as well as that famous paying agency in agriculture because these are all departments of the Ministry of Agriculture and should have stayed as well. As far as independence itself is concerned, I do not see the possibility of any kind of independence in its work because it is primarily a service financed from the state budget so that in our work and in its work we can forget about independence. It is similar to that question, Mr. Minister, and the already known name in your ministry, which is still not resolved, which is the issue of the famous Croatian Horsefarm Centre, which was founded on unfounded and unfounded foundations when two national ergeles were joined, i.e. one true national ergela Đakovo with more than 500 years of tradition and more than 206 years more precisely the cultivation of the Lipians in the area of Đakov when it was attached and all the zucchini in the Croatian Horsefarm Centre.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6394	You're bringing the end of my colleague Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6395	We're taking the lead. Let me just make a suggestion to Mr. Secretary. My proposal is to finally resolve this issue to separate because I do not want to have Lipik on my soul, to restore the legal personality of Ergel Djakovo, to give legal personality to the ergel Lipik, so if they remain, they remain without putting the Croatian Horsefarm Centre under the state ergel Đakovo because it was the state ergel Đakovo that still worked. You'll have a real cost rationalization. The HDSSB club can't support these two laws. We are in favour of the survival of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, but we ask that these two laws go into second reading and we believe that no amendments can be corrected by two laws, and especially by two laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6396	Thank you, colleague Vinkovic. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6397	Thank you. Yeah, that's what burns red, and I watch it light up here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6398	Please. Don't forget your props. I shall inform my colleagues and colleagues that Article 207(2) is in accordance with Article 207(2). The Rules of Procedure have expired time for the application of the debate for 10 minutes. That time expired at 11.49 minutes what you can see on screens. That's this middle number. We've exhausted all the club applications and we're moving on to an individual debate. The first came to the debate with the distinguished representative Sandra Petrovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6399	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear ministers, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. In the course of the debate, some of the esteemed colleagues have, in my opinion, made it very easy to call for the legality and consistency of the proposed amendments to the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, and I wonder if it is legal, and it is at least fair to take money on behalf of a chamber contribution, suspending it even from the amount of state aid that is otherwise excluded even from the application of the executive rules, from the state budget, while not performing the basic functions prescribed by the law. These are about words that I could describe the work of the Croatian agricultural chamber so far. First of all, I support a united debate on the proposals of the two laws that are interlinked and I think they together represent expected and desirable changes in the institutions in charge of the country's strategic interest, which is, in any case, Croatian agriculture and agricultural activity. Accessing the amendments to the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber is another step towards the objective pursued by the agricultural policy of this Government, which is primarily the correction of injustice and indifference in the Croatian agriculture system. his institutional support. I support the harmonisation of the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber with specific laws regarding the exercise of public authority or the Law on State support for agriculture as regards the control of rural development measures. A Agriculture Act in the part of keeping records of direct sales to agricultural holdings. I believe that by abolishing these public powers, we are making a step towards the re-establishment of legal certainty in this area because we are legally coordinating public powers to institutions that need to be exercised, so there should be no confusion in this regard. Since there is no longer a need for the exercise of these public powers by the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, there is no longer any need or logical justification for why the Croatian agricultural chamber would retain the state budget funds as a source of its own funding. In that sense, the state budget was disbursed in that position. The same funds can be rerouted to the work of the Agricultural Advisory Service as an institution that will exercise public authority in the field of agriculture and be at the service of the end-user and that is the Croatian farmer. The following change is related to the problem of membership in chambers which have burdened farmers or craftsmen and companies engaged in agricultural activities. In fact, the law stipulates that agriculture can be dealt with by natural and legal persons, hence their mandatory membership in chambers often prevented them from seeing at all the interest and sense in being members of the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, and I think we have come to this with these proposed amendments to the law. Now they will have the option of a choice in which the chambers want to realise their interests of association, or in which chamber they wish to exercise their constitutional rights to which you have called in your debates on behalf of the club. However, the most important part of the amendments and additions relate to the significant financial discharge of Croatian farmers in terms of abolishing the chamber contribution. To the members of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber so far, the amount of the chamber contribution has been suspended from the amount paid on behalf of the support. On the other hand, the amount of support in agriculture has the status of such monetary income that is even excluded from the exercise. So, in terms of alimony or disability pensions. However, even though it was not excluded from the exercise, it was also not excluded from the reduction for the amount of the chamber contribution. I must point out that this is the amount that Croatian farmers have not even seen in general because it was automatically removed from the amount of support received. Many of them did not even know that this amount was reduced or that they were obliged to pay it. I believe I speak for the great majority of farmers when I say that these are the changes they hoped for and that there is a consensus between them on this subject. Every change in bad and unfair practice is welcome, and for this one in particular, I think it came at the right time. A new improvement will bring us the establishment and agricultural advisory services as bodies with the public authority of an independent body that will be responsible for supporting end-users or farmers, without compensation, so professionally and professionally without compensation. They will have their own service in which they will be free of charge for assistance, support, advice, service provided under their legal powers. I also believe that I speak on behalf of most Croatian farmers when I welcome these legislative changes, and I hope that the new structure will be satisfied with the very ones whose purpose it is intended for, and these are the end-users of the farmers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6400	Thank you. Next for individual debate, representative Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6401	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here's because I come from Slavonia, so the part where many people live on agriculture I need to say a few words about it. But it is particularly clear to me that some self-proclaimed Croatian peasants are now not even in the assembly, including some members of regional parties, so they do not care what they have to say with this law or what their colleagues have to say. But, well, it's on their soul. And let me now say something about these legal proposals. The Croatian Chamber of Agriculture has been law since 2009. For years, it was given two public powers, as some colleagues and colleagues had already mentioned before me, so the control measure of rural development and keeping records of direct sales to agricultural economies. However, what is paradoxical is that one and the other public authorities were regulated by other laws, so the Laws on State Support in Agriculture and Rural Development, which gave the first public authority stated jurisdiction to enforce the paying agency, and the Agriculture Act itself prescribed a way to keep records of the sale of its own products on the agricultural holding. That is why erasing these two public powers of the law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber means harmonising with the existing laws, which I certainly believe is commendable because it reduces the confusion that has arisen precisely because of this problem. It is also clear from this that the proposals of the old Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber have introduced these provisions which were contrary to the existing laws, aimed at politically imposing the importance of work on a new institution, which should in extreme terms be the place of agreeing and harmonising the views on production in the agrarian particularly in the Croatian village, not the place of implementation of certain control measures implemented by institutions which are in the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Agriculture. Another important thing in these amendments to the law concerns mandatory membership in the chamber, which has been prescribed in the current law, that all farmers must be members of the chamber and pay contributions, which are regulated as voluntary. I think it's commendable, but here's a colleague who mentioned it before me. Since we have also announced in the election campaign that we will reduce the parafiscal burdens of the farmers, of course we include farmers. Especially those who were already members of both the Chamber of crafts or the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture. The SDP also suggested this exactly when the debate on this law was so in the past term. But the ruling HDZ and HSS had no hearing about it. It is also not good that the membership fee was paid by suspending the funds that the user received from direct payments from incentives, which is illegal because these are the means for the development of agricultural activity and are not allowed to be reduced by the amount on behalf of the chamber contribution. So it would only be impossible since 2013 when support is paid out of EU funds. At that time, our agricultural policy will also be in line with the EU's common agricultural policy, and these amendments to the law also concern the process of harmonising our legislation with the EU acquis. As far as the Agricultural Advisory Service is concerned, this bill and the adoption of the final law have a primary objective, and at least that's how I realized it, harmonisation also with EU practice, and with the aim of direct support programmes for farmers being within the framework of the EU's common agricultural policy. This also imposes an obligation to form within the Ministry of Agriculture of the Agricultural Advisory Service, which will allow for the voluntary participation of farmers in the use of the service. The importance of this service is seen through information and advice from farmers related to their restructuring and adaptation of the conditions of implementation of the EU common agricultural policy, even more implementation of the common organisation of the agricultural market. What this service will have to put far ahead of its priorities is to help potential users with pre-accession programmes for agriculture and rural development of the IPARD, as well as other funds that will be accessible after the accession of the Republic of Croatia. By entering this service into the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture, it lost its independence and ability to implement national objectives in agriculture. Instead of working for the benefit of farmers, the service focused on the activities of the agricultural chamber infrastructure, so the service of Croatian agricultural chamber apparatus that already existed and reduced the availability of professional and advisory services, and for the assistance of farmers and the development of Croatian agriculture as a ultimate goal. Unfortunately, at the time of joining the service of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, the SDP at the time pointed out bad things that would happen, but our remarks were not respected. The return of the service under the auspices of the Ministry of Agriculture, if you ask me, is a normal course. Given the projected budget resources for the work of all staff, there will be no problem, and they will be able to continue working as a public agricultural advisory service. For these reasons, I believe that these legal solutions are good, for these reasons I will support these solutions and personally support and invite all colleagues and fellow MPs to also support this package of laws that is extremely important for the future of Croatian agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6402	Thank you very much. Next for an individual debate representative Mr Zoran Vasic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6403	Thank you, Your Honor. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So in February 2009, the Croatian Parliament passed the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. It said that the Chamber was an independent and independent professional and business organisation. According to that law membership in the Chamber was prescribed as mandatory and it was said then that the Chamber would be deprived of any policy which unfortunately we have witnessed in practice was not the case. At the end of the 11th month of that year, the elections for the Croatian Agricultural Chamber were completed and I will remind here that these elections were under way, i.e. which was the response in these elections. I think it's important because since then, the dissatisfaction of our farmers with the Agricultural Chamber has been going on. So, of some 185,000 family economies and 5800 other entities from the List of Agricultural Producers in the Republic of Croatia who made up the electoral population voted all together about 37,000 farmers, or about 19%. The members of the Chamber of Agriculture were chosen in a unique way, I would say by letter in the elections. Perhaps you are now wondering why by correspondence, because the vote was held in such a way that ballots were sent by post to Zagreb to the Committee for the conduct of elections for the Croatian Agricultural Chamber Assembly. Here's some information on the bodies of the chamber, we haven't heard that before today. So the Assembly of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber numbers 119 members, the Management Board of the Chamber numbers 17 members, the Supervisory Board of 5 members, there is still the President of the Chamber, the Court of Honor which counts 5 members. Why does it matter? Because it is all 146 persons who, according to the Statute of the Chamber, have the right to compensation if the Chamber Assembly so decides, and judging by what I will later say, which I will state clearly that it has decided. The President of the Chamber, however, is told of special fees for the performance of this function under the Statute. In 2010, the Agricultural Chamber Act was amended. Except that the advisory service was placed under the auspices of the Agricultural Chamber of Commerce, a membership fee by name and an introduction of a chamber contribution that was directly removed from the accounts by the paying agency, that is to say from those incentives that our farmers were to receive. According to this bill, there are two reasons why we are going into these changes. Therefore, two activities defined as public authorities are prescribed within the chamber. This is the control of rural development measures and keeping records of direct sales to agricultural holdings. Since other institutions are carrying out this activity, and not the chamber, it is clear that this should be amended. The amendment of the law is proposed because we advocate voluntary membership to respect the constitutionality of the law, as we have already heard today. It is also inadmissible to reduce incentives by the amount of the chamber contribution and to identify users in a significantly reduced amount, so many farmers do not even know how much they have been downloaded on behalf of the chamber contribution. These are the main reasons for me, but not the only reasons why it is necessary to amend the existing Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. Reading the Financial Report of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber for 2011 comes up with very interesting data. In the framework of the Agricultural Chamber, 8 permanent employees are currently employed who are currently being singled out monthly for their salaries of around 105 thousand kuna. That's what they'd say to the original employees of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. And the total chamber contribution that was paid to the agricultural chamber in 2011 is 10 million kuna. And imagine, the total amount of fees for the work of all bodies of the chamber, as well as for the cost of official travel in 2011 is 2 million 365 thousand kuna or 22.3%. Or here's a little numbered data specific, so according to the data from the report and data from the Ministry of Agriculture. President-in-Office's 2011 work fee 115 thousand kuna, compensation for the work of the Management Board 820 thousand kuna, compensation for the work of the sectoral committees 920 thousand kuna, compensation for the work of the Supervisory Board 62,000 kuna, compensation for the official journey of President 121 thousand kuna, etc. So when we look at it, in 2011, about 240,000 kunas were included in the name of travel compensation and its work. All together so 2 million 345 thousand kuna. I believe our farmers don't know that. It should be pointed out here that the vast majority of our farmers are ineffectively assessing the work of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber since it has not contributed to the development of the agriculture of the Republic of Croatia. At the second session of the Assembly Committee on Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development, held on 22 February of this year, it is unanimously suggested that the Ministry of Agriculture consider the possibility of amending and supplementing the Agricultural Chamber Act, and that is exactly what the representatives of our farmers have initiated. When we talk about the care of the representatives of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber for our agriculture, we should say that now already the former president of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber at the time of the protest of our milkers and the great efforts of the Ministry of Agriculture to find a solution to the problems of our milkers was with a delegation on the way to China, which they rightly object to. And maybe he actually adopted Chinese experience of onion production, so first of all garlic, because we know that Croatia, unfortunately, alongside so many fertile and unprocessed countries, imports garlic from China. The European countries' agricultural chambers have a long-standing tradition of action in their well-developed agricultural areas, so countries. Unfortunately, the attempt to organise a similar farmer of the Republic of Croatia within our Chamber has not proved to be an effective and practical model of action. I would like to stress here that these amendments to the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber are not abolished, but simply its existence is absolutely important, but we simply feel that it is important to remove the mandatory membership fee and these things that I have highlighted here. As regards the agricultural advisory service, as I said by amending the 2010 law The Croatian Institute for Agricultural Advisory has been placed under the auspices of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. By passing this Act, the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture took over about 250 employees of the advisory service, their equipment, space and financial resources, which, according to then responsible from the Government of the Republic of Croatia, should have contributed to a more rational organisation of jobs and tasks, and thus reduced costs. In the advisory service at that time, it was employed when we talk about the profession and the experts of 4 doctors of science, 23 master of science and 210 graduate engineers. In some ways, they've been subordinated to the profession. No one will be angry. I'll tell the volunteers in the area of agronomia. So, when we talk about the profession. But in the HDZ and HSS government at the time, they said that the main reason for the adoption of this Law was the implementation of the government's economic recovery programme as well as one of the public administration reform measures. So I'm now asking if one of the measures of the then government and a change in the name of the farmer's harrass. So it was no longer called a membership fee for the Agricultural Chamber but a chamber contribution. For reasons for the adoption of this Law on Agricultural Advisory, which we also heard from the Minister of Agriculture, who also my colleagues and colleagues had said before me. I will highlight a few important things that I think we should talk about here and that they may be the main reasons why this law is passed. The role of the agricultural advisory service is to assist potential users in the use of the pre-accession programme for agriculture and rural development of IPARD, in particular in strengthening the absorption capacity of agricultural holdings for the use of the funds of this programme available to our farmers. It is tragic that so far the leadership of the Ministry of Agriculture has done in terms of withdrawing European money. All we have to do is remember Sapard. Of the 245 million kunas from that fund, less than half was used, and 128 million kunas were lost. When we talk about IPARD, the use of IPARD funds so far is about 37% and varies from measure to measure. Thus, for measure 302 usability is only 9.4% and for measures 101 and 103 30%, and for measure 301-67%. All of these are colleagues and colleagues of the reasons why we need a new Agricultural Advisory Service Act that should be legally advisory and helpful to farmers, not as we have heard logistics for Croatia's agricultural chamber. Therefore, I will support the adoption of this Law on the Agricultural Advisory Service, i.e. to support the amendment of the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6404	Thank you very much. One notification to members and members of the Committee on Gender Equality. The thematic session of the Committee on Gender Equality will be held today at 13.00 at the Josip Šokčević hall. We're continuing an individual debate. Next up for debate, Ms. Djurdzica Sumrak's representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6405	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here I am, before I begin my debate, I would like to say that I will not talk about everything that my colleague Tyrell said, and that indeed, most of all, I almost all support her discussions as well as her colleagues, Peter Cobankovic. But I'll look back on a few things. What I'm a little worried about right now is what she imagined. I will also look back at Mr. Petar Baranovic's discussion that he calls this Chamber with the Glembayev family. So let me give him a little time to tell him just one little anecdote if he even knows what it means when you call someone the Glembas, let's just say you. Tin Ujević came to visit the Glemba family one day. Came to the Iron, a beautiful park, a beautiful big house. He rang the doorbell and a properly dressed maid came out and said, "I'm sorry, who do you need?" And he said, "I'm sorry, I thought I came to Krležina's, but I was confused. These are Mrs. Glembai's. So don't qualify people like that, don't qualify the chamber and that association that's why it's founded. What is certainly important to know, and that is why the new minister knows why she was founded and why we did it, and that is because there are over 800 different associations of agricultural producers in Croatia and it was practically impossible to determine who legitimately represents their common interests. It is very important to say that all the members are enrolled in the Register of Agricultural Producers, and there are some 194,000 of them, registered meanings in the Register of Agricultural Economics, and they are also members of different these 800 associations. Secondly, the HDZ Government but also the Ministry of Agriculture in that population of agricultural associations and producers could not have had in this great variety an equal partner who could be equally involved on the basis of professional bases in the creation and implementation of agricultural policy measures, and also the Government supported the establishment and the establishment of these agricultural chambers because it was really important. What's the big deal? And the purpose of this Agriculture Chamber is, in reality, the direct involvement of agricultural economies in a business structural institution that will be helped as a responsible and relevant partner in the creation and effective implementation of agricultural policy and development programmes. The agricultural chamber should contribute to strengthening agricultural entrepreneurship, business integration with the food industry, agricultural products distributors and in order to combine common interests, single actions in establishing a balance between production, processing and consumption of agricultural products for both domestic and foreign markets. The tradition of these chambers in Europe is far-reaching. She's somewhere already moving with the early 19th century. But if I wasn't just talking about the Chamber of Agriculture, I would also like to say something about our Advisory Service, which was never abolished in 2011 but was attached, and this is what my young colleague before me was saying, citing a cost structure, just as the government was then running the cost structure. And here I have only one quote, for example. that in just a year, about 1 million 840 and several thousand kunas were spent for telephone conversations in the Advisory Service. Which is not unusual, perhaps, if they are all, or if they are all spent on talking to farmers. Since I have done my job before, but also now that I work in very frequent contact with my colleagues and colleagues, but also with colleagues and colleagues of other professions, so I am a doctor of veterinary medicine, but also fellow agronomists, fellow foresters who work in advisory services have one wonderful experience and I feel again and I will always say that the profession should be appreciated, that they have contributed very much to the development of agriculture, that they have contributed very much to the education of agricultural producers. No one can argue with that. So today why are we against this? Because we think we should do a little wider discussion here today, so we don't have to bother to say it with some humiliating sentences to that agricultural chamber. She's important, she's important. I think the Minister knows how important she is. We also feel that this does not require an emergency procedure. Let one real debate be held at all levels. It is true that there were some problems in the Chamber of Agriculture, but it is also true that farmers and agricultural producers are already very interested in membership in the Chamber of Agriculture. We're in front of the HDZ Club, of course, and we've submitted the amendment. And this amendment is related to this Article 4 which proposes the abolition of compulsory membership in Croatia's agricultural chamber by, we ask and ask ourselves in this amendment whether new laws are then being prepared in which there will be no mandatory membership of other chambers? I personally know about my Croatian veterinary chamber, it is mandatory for membership to be in the Croatian veterinary chamber especially if you work in the profession as a field veterinarian. People who are in other chambers, these are craft chambers and these are county or ordinary, they must also be mandatory in that chamber. So if the mandatory membership fee is abolished here, will some new laws be abolished and membership fees in these other chambers, what is that going to imply, and why is that? I would not agree with a young colleague, forgive her now, when she said it was very well done that it should not be a member, that it was on a voluntary basis of the Agricultural Chamber because now everyone will get a choice where they will, whether they will be in a crafts office, whether they will be in another Croatian Chamber of Commerce or I have no idea which, veterinary. That's just impossible. You are a member of the chamber related to the structure of your production, that is, what you do. So farmers who register as craftsmen can also be members of the Croatian Chamber of crafts. And that is exactly what the Ministers see must do. I've been waiting for someone to tell me the same thing, they have to, so if we have the Agricultural Chamber and the Association of Agricultural Producers inside it, then I think they should and must be members of that chamber. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6406	Thank you. We have on your exhibit a correction to the incorrect assumption. Representative Petar Baranovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6407	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, I would have had a series of corrections to an incorrect quote, but I'll only stick to it for once, and that's an attempt to quote by the distinguished representative twilight of what I said. He's referring to the Glemba family. I thought I made it very clear when I said that the Agricultural Chamber is the youngest member of the family of Croatian chambers that reminds the family of Glembai. And I remain in that statement, Mrs. twilight, since I have very many years of experience with the chamber system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6408	Thank you. We also have a replica of your exposure. Representative Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6409	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here's a colleague of the twilight you mentioned at the end, which offered me actually a replica, a membership in the chambers. What I may have missed to say in my main debate is that I think that volunteering membership in the chamber will help the chamber actually turn more to the farmer it should serve. Because that's your point, so if you're a member of the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, that's a huge parafiscal charge that farmers have to pay for. I think this is, therefore, going towards dispensing farmers of these parafiscal duties and therefore that it is actually to encourage the chamber that will then be on the market to concentrate its services, so to be a farm service and to focus more on them and to attract as many members as possible in the end line. Because if you're paying membership fees for membership in an association, an institution, a Swedish association, and that's the Agricultural Chamber of Commerce, you're always wondering what I'm getting from these memberships. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6410	Thank you. We have an answer to your replica. - Mrs. Sumrak's representative, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6411	Thank you very much. Dear colleague, I will gladly answer your line. And I will answer your line with one question. I agree that in one part of the parafiscal impositions are just being managed to reduce the uniting chamber and advisory services, but I ask you, why don't you fight for the reduction of these duties in other chambers, for example. craftsmen, e.g. economics, e.g. lawyers, e.g. For us veterinarians, e.g. Pharmaceuticals, doctors and them are bound to impose. See, that's the thing. When that's how it starts, then we fall to ourselves in some way what's said inside of us in that hole we've been digging for. It's not the same and it gets a lot.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6412	Thank you. Next for an individual debate representative Mr Igor Chešek. Here you go. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Well, that's where it was wrong. A colleague, Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6413	Never mind. Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, MPs and MPs. Is there a Chamber of Agriculture? Maybe he's gone. I don't know exactly what she brought or what she took to the farm. The establishment of a chamber and administration of HSS was a purely political decision completely irrelevant to our food production and to the people in that production. In order for the chamber to have something to do, she was also transferred to a well - trained orchestra of small but effective armies of agricultural advisers. Croatian Agricultural Advisory Service from... The agriculture ministry has been transferred to this fiction of HDZ and HSS. The chamber serves nothing. The counselors should be sent back to where they are. There's more that's completely out of your mind. What do we need the Ministry of Agriculture if it's not able to do what a bunch of agencies, institutes, institutes, or who knows what they're not doing? What does the Agriculture Pay Agency do anyway? What was done before and what was always to be done in the offices of the Ministry of Agriculture on Vukovar Avenue. We really have to stop the insane spending of money on various institutions, ministries. It all comes from every kilo of wheat, oil, kilos of pepper from the kitchen, ham and ham. Not all of this can be paid by our Croatian black, clay, red, as well as by our seas and lakes. Which doesn't work, it doesn't work. Let their children and members employ other sectors, and let all agriculture be left behind. Here are the excerpts from a menu of such a handsome article done on the portal by author Damir Rukovanski, master, an agronomy engineer with whom I most agree, so I wanted to list him on a agricultural portal published where he tried to synthesize a series of problems that we actually encounter in agriculture. We have encountered clearly opposing opposition, opposition and power here if this is now the proposal of the ruling coalition and is supported by the left-hand side of the assembly. If it were the opposite, you'd be supporting the right. The fact is really illogical now is that the situation is being set and one precedent is being set as voluntary membership in the Agricultural Chamber. And what all the chambers in Croatia have listed are mandatory. This is the first and for now only if we vote this way in which membership will be optional. I have been a member of the Croatian Medical Chamber for many years now, and I would very much like it to be possible for membership in that chamber to be optional because I paid a few hundred kunas a month from my salary and it was one imposition that I could never get rid of. And I'd be happy if I could step out of that chamber, and I couldn't step forward. As many in other professions would certainly be very pleased and would be happy to step out of these chambers of professional and various designs, we are cross over to various chambers but we cannot step forward. I talked to farmers and larger and smaller agricultural producers and some people who worked in the Agricultural Advisory Service and opinions are conflicting. Most small producers will be glad not to be members of the Agricultural Chamber because they have in no way participated in the policymaking and agriculture of the chamber while a part of the large producers would like to keep the chamber mandatory because they still had some leverage on agricultural policy regardless of their membership in a party. Now that fellow Vasic has mentioned the costs of the work of the chamber and the items in those labour costs, it is a bit incorrect because it can take the annual report of any institution or any other chamber and of course there will be labour costs, office costs of the president's work, representation and the rest I think it is somewhat incorrect. When it comes to the Agricultural Advisory Service and the very proposal of the Law on the Agricultural Advisory Service, one thing that would be arranged here as a public institution is that it is fine on its own, what I would ask myself is why this new bill is not left with the possibility that the Agricultural Advisory Service can come out and make certain incomes as an institution. So here was one of the remarks that I met with some people who used to work today that they were actually prevented from going out on the market and doing certain projects and these projects eventually go to other private companies, so the Agricultural Advisory Service has resources and staff and material experience and could be part of the projects working on the market and thus earn something rather than just depending on its original incomes. I therefore did not want to write the amendment but simply state it while the minister is here, there is still enough time to consider why it might not have been made possible amongst what it says that the Agricultural Advisory Service would therefore do so in the job description and allow it to perform certain services and service activities on the market for those who are interested in it and thus make some additional income in its business. That's not here for now. Here, that was one remark that I met with people who work in the Agricultural Advisory Service, one proposal about them. As far as the chamber is concerned, we can be in and out. I don't think the practice has shown much of the role and significance of this Agricultural Chamber, but what it has shown is one political manipulation that was present in the work and the Agricultural Chamber, and that is certainly not good. On the other hand, I'm just wondering if this kind of precedent that's now being opened with that Agricultural Chamber will open up the possibility of making precedents in other chambers. If I think I'm speaking specifically for this Croatian medical chamber, I'd be very happy and many colleagues to be able to get rid of membership in that chamber. Is it us who work in the public sector which we did not work as private entrepreneurs joined in any chamber, so as a public sector employee, regardless of what chamber it is, that chamber does not represent me, I am me. As a doctor in a hospital, someone who works in a public sector is a chamber in no way representing his standing interest because he is an employee of the public system. Therefore, all these chambers can make sense as voluntary when they gather people who, on their own private interests and interests of their capital, gather their professions standing in one of the chambers. So lawyers, if they have private law offices, will clearly be involved, but whether state lawyers will need to form a chamber of state attorneys, I think it's unlikely so with these other professions that are now included in various chambers. Here's what my colleague Vinkovic said, we're not particularly happy and we don't think there was any need for any urgency in this process because it doesn't burn anything special. Agriculture is actually burdensome in these problems that won't solve this. More on the Agricultural Advisory Service. It does not matter what we write about it, how it will be formed, but how it will work, and that is the key question of who will lead this Agricultural Advisory Service, in which way it will be formed. Whether she might be more decentralised in her red than she's ever been before. Is it thought that maybe she's more set up regionally, not just in the counties like today? And is there a possibility that in part of its services it is actually incomeing that state budget, and for which it has the resources to do so. Croatian farmers will not cry to the fullest extent, regardless of the Chamber of Agriculture, in either form or in that form, whether voluntary or compulsory. What Croatian farmers pay the most for is the fact that today 22 years after the establishment of the Croatian state and the total volume of agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia is lower than when the Croatian state was created in '90. A year. And in no way have we actually been able to get to the level of agricultural production in any part of it in the extent that it was when the state of Croatia was growing. And it reduced the scope of agricultural production both in livestock and in warfare and in livestock, we produce less milk, we have less farmed areas, and that's actually the essential problem of agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6414	Thank you. We have three replicas on your exhibit. Replication was first reported by a representative, Mr. Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6415	Dear fellow Đurovic, as a member of the Committee on Agriculture in the previous meeting, and here you have encouraged me and opened practically another important issue which is also not defined by this law, and this is a question of the headquarters of a chamber that should not be unwittingly in Zagreb since the largest number of family economies comes from Slavonia and Baranja. Normally, there is also a question of the very headquarters of the ministry that suffers in these narrowed spaces on Vukovar Avenue and certainly in case we really want decentralisation of the function that this ministry should be in Slavonia and Baranja, in the cereals of Croatia, and not here in Zagreb. But what should be supported in any case is the survival of the Croatian agricultural chamber as bodies that will practically pass these associations, certain peasant associations practically and co-create agricultural policy. And what should especially be indicated here is that these laws should not have been followed by an emergency procedure and that the Croatian Parliament cannot, based on the errors that occurred and in that last meeting, simply make decisions that are not valid for all other chambers because this way really opens one of Pandora's boxes. So what we advocate, in any case, is that there is no mandatory membership and mandatory payment of contributions both in the Agricultural Chamber and in all other chambers and we ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia to put this very quickly in the procedure because what applies to the Agricultural Chamber should also apply to all other chambers. As for the advisory service...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6416	Time, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6417	One sentence, I'm done. I would only ask the esteemed SDP colleagues to listen well to the debate they had held in the past meeting where they strongly opposed the exit of the Ministry of Agriculture advisory service, and now they advocate independence of the service, and cannot be independent of funding from the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6418	Thank you. Mr. Domagoj Hajdukovic's representative came forward next for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6419	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament. Well, here's a fellow I'm confused about what your position is in the end. You say the Agricultural Chamber doesn't know what we got or lost with it, and then you say it doesn't matter whether it's mandatory or optional. If you ask me, it's not a good thing you're paying for something your way if it's no use. On the other hand, you mentioned that you are a member of the Medical Chamber but you are not at the same time in the law and member of the Chamber of Nurses and the Chamber of Drivers of Sanitation, so you do not have the obligation to be a parallel member of multiple chambers. The intention is for farmers to be dispersed in this sense because they operate on the market in the form of crafts and companies, so by law, they must be members of either the Croatian Chamber of Commerce or the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. Then why should they be members of multiple chambers? That's exactly what this is about. So you're a member of the Medical Chamber, but you're a member of a chamber. The law does not stipulate that you must be members of more of them. In addition, I am not a member of the Committee on Agriculture but representatives of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber did not even object to the mandatory chamber contribution being abolished. If you ask me, it's putting part of the public service back on the market. It is theirs to fight for as many members as possible, and it will only do so if they are of some benefit to those members. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6420	Thank you. We have a reply to your replica. A representative of my colleague Đurovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6421	Thank you. The answer is clear, Mr. Vinkovic brought it out. We believe that this was to go to regular procedure, so there are arguments for and against, we see no reasons for the urgency of the procedure first, so there could be more public debates, so that's not a question that... Not in any way. [[You don't understand.]] So where there are arguments for and against, but there are no particular arguments for urgency procedures. And then I pointed out it only meant the possibilities of arguments... and as far as membership is concerned... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am only a representative of the chamber, so for now I am not paying membership in the Chamber for which I am very pleased. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And there isn't, I'm saying we're neither for anything, nor against it. But we don't see just the reasons for the urgency of the procedure right now, and we wanted to actually, in a constructive way, we'd just like to help this debate with some proposals.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6422	Thank you. Next replica representative Marelić Mladen. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6423	Thank you, Mr. President. A colleague, Djurovic, has repeatedly insisted on urgency and is the problem. I think the urgency of the committee itself, the parent committee was at that, at the second session of the debate and seeking representatives and chambers and associations to move with the chamber to change. So, on the parent board, we've already got the emphasis and the point of going to change in the Chamber. And I think the ministry reacted well and that it accepted and offered one solution. And the solution that my colleague has just said before can't be members of more chambers for the same activity. I think it's also well-pointed that we're going voluntarily to join this Chamber. And the third thing we thought was just financing the Chamber that was out of support, so that would have been a 0.5 percent incentive that it was incorrect for only farmers who were threatened to still rise to finance the Chamber 0.5%, and that was between 10 and 15 million, we were about to raise incentives annually. Also, as regards the advisory service that has been very involved in the work of the Chamber, I think that this way the advisory service will be much better used on the needs of the farmer, i.e. the user of the service, because it will have one burden less and be able to work independently on the ground much better and better quality than it was now through the Chamber because we had information that they had to cooperate with the Chamber, but also jobs that were not directly in them that they had to perform them. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6424	Thank you. My colleague Đurovic is the reply to the replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6425	Agricultural producers registered in the register have hundreds of thousands. Many chambers have only a few hundred members. Therefore, this issue can also be arranged in a way that farmers are only members of the Agricultural Chamber without being members of the Chamber of Commerce or of the Chamber of Commerce. Therefore, this is not the only way to resolve because it is one large number of individual producers. So it can be arranged another way. It can be a member of the other two chambers, and only members of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. The matter of volunteering you will see will remain open and I don't know if anyone will continue to ask about other chambers. But that, this raises some questions. And as far as agricultural and advisory services are concerned, it doesn't matter where they are in what form. It's important whether it's going to be done fairly, whether it's going to be done well. Because there is a sign that one leadership that lasted in the agricultural and advisory service for almost 15 years or that the Chamber was led by this chamber in its work, in its development, in the development of the creativity of its research potentials quite braked and that this Chamber could have done much more to be led by quality people. So we can do whatever we want with the form. Good, good quality, creative people are important who will do a good job for which they are paid. Here, and it was actually a message from the Minister to try and find a really good team to run that Chamber. It doesn't matter what frame we put them in. I can be in whatever frame you want if it's bad, that advisory service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6426	Thank you. We don't have a replica anymore, we don't have a reply to the replica. Next up for debate, Mr. Igor Chešek's representative. Here's an apology, but third happiness. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6427	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, dear ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Today, the debate has been told many times by the SDP that the Agricultural Chamber was created under the political auspices of HDZ and HSS. I absolutely agree with that that and that many things in Croatia do not understand the agricultural chamber as they say. We must be aware of the fact that the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture itself is three years old. Whether it was created under political patronage or not we will judge for ourselves, but the very idea of the Agricultural Chamber is excellent. Because the developed members of the European Union have a Croatian agricultural chamber, developed members working intensively on agricultural production have a Agricultural Chamber and so should be. However, from the debate, I didn't quite get the impression that everyone who participated in the debate talked to the agricultural producers whether it was small or large agricultural producers except fellow Djurovic and here is colleague Vukbratovic, whom I highly appreciate and I know that he is doing his job in the profession. I've been doing some research and conversations, too. I've come to the conclusion through these conversations with farmers that the Chamber of Agriculture has never done a very good job before. What should be the objective of the Agriculture Chamber itself? The aim should therefore be to unite agricultural producers and various associations that bring together agricultural producers and all for the purpose of achieving agricultural standards in developed members of the European Union. So what is on us is to publicly criticise the work of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber or any institution that does not carry out its work as it should, and all in order to improve the impact of the action here in this case of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. Therefore, the survival of the Croatian agricultural chamber is not questionable. It's a matter of membership. I also agree that membership should be voluntary, but it should also be voluntary in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and in the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, because it is really absurd for members of the Croatian agricultural chamber whose basic activity of agriculture is to be mandatory members of both the Croatian Chamber of Commerce or the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, while not having to be members of the agricultural chamber. Therefore, they should have been left with the option of choosing whether they wanted to be members of the Chamber of Commerce or the Chamber of Agriculture. And it needs to be done as quickly as possible at the end of the day. As far as the Advisory Service itself is concerned, it is absolutely necessary to separate itself from the Agricultural Chamber, but it is also necessary to strengthen the work of the Advisory Service because I believe that consultants in the Republic of Croatia do not have enough. I'll give you an example from my county, or Virovitica-Podravska County. In Virovitica-Podravska County, there are 10 consultants, which I think is small because if we know we have about 81 thousand hectares of farmland and 9,000 registered family farms. So 10 consultants on such an area to so many economies is certainly not enough. So, what I don't agree with is that they first went to the suspension of the membership fee required by the Agricultural Chamber, and we wait with membership in the Chamber of Commerce and crafts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6428	Thank you. We have a replica of your exposure. Representative Zoran Vinkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6429	I'll just supplement my colleague. For example, the French agricultural chamber receives 650m euros from the budget. In the Federal Republic of Germany, too, in Austria. So in all European developed countries, and it is really insane that a member of the Agricultural Chamber must also pay for membership and compulsory membership in the Chamber of Commerce or in the Chamber of Commerce. And it is this law that needs to be one multidisciplinary to say that it must bind all existing chambers and make the same solution for all chambers in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the Croatian Agricultural Chamber must in any case resuscitate and act in the Republic of Croatia. The second thing is that we may better discuss the effects of the work of the Croatian agricultural chamber in the past year since its establishment and what the Croatian agricultural chamber eventually brought to Croatian agriculture. We also believe that given the urgency of the procedure that should not have been necessary in this case at all, given that the Croatian Agricultural Advisory Service left the Ministry of Agriculture and joined the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, thanks primarily to the HDZ-HSS agreement, which the opposition then strongly reacted to, warned. I am now surprised by this co-operative turn of the Social Democrats where they advocate independence, conditional independence under the quotes of the Advisory Service. Because no one can be independent if they only have revenues from the state budget. So there's no independence at all. The only intention that can be read here is to create a new supervisory authority, a new director, a new secretary, a new ficus. Our proposal is that this Advisory Service and return to the ministry as well as the Payment Agency, given the number of employees in the state administration, given the number of employees of the ministry, the ministry can only do so. Similar to the state ergel Đakovo famous Croatian Horsemen's Centre. Ask Mandic, they've been doing it the whole time since he was director, and since '45. began to deal with the ergels. Let's not really create what we don't have to. Let's correct the mistakes.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6430	Thank you. Next up for debate representative Mr Mario Moharic. He's gone, he's lost his right to debate. We're done with individual debates. I'd like to ask Minister Tihomir Jakovina, would you like to speak? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6431	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues. I have listened carefully to your debate, your reviews, your digressions and suggestions, and I am grateful to you personally for the submitted and only in some way strengthened me in the belief that we have made good proposals for two legal solutions, two laws – one new, one in the form of changes and additions and for the reason I will try to sublime a little, I will not look back on each individual debate. I think it was when we talk about the sides on the right a lot of complaints about urgency. As a rule, it is not one of the laws that comes in the package to comply with the relevant EU rules, but I think, given what was said and in the argument why we went into legislative changes that we should have actually complied with good practice and positive provisions... in European countries. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If we enter the EU's large family from next year, then we must start acting and work in everything that we will have to do in about 15 months. If we're talking about analysis, we know that as far as chambers are concerned, some of them are in the composition of public advisory services, some are in the composition of chambers, some are not. I think it's somewhere in the EU at 50%. Then we also know well that nothing in this way is paid by tightening the funds from incentives, or support to agricultural producers. Speaking of support, then I have to complete, or correct, the presentation of the esteemed colleague Vinkovic on the cost of the aid itself because, as I said yesterday at the current hour of support, they were paid 3 months before the legal order, paid in the amount of nearly a billion kuna and they included 90% of the applicants of the incentive. Including payments due tomorrow on Friday, I'm talking about the second half of your heroism. About 120 million kunas and milk 12th month plus 200 million that we are from the provisional budget we are very close to what the Croatian agrarian has never received in the first three months almost a billion and 200 thousand kuna in support and incentives towards the outside. We have said about 10% more amounts that have not been paid, these are users who have had or reported wrong giro-accounts or have been in their tax liability to the state in a much larger amount than they should have received support so that the IRS and the Ministry of Finance put those users on stand-by, gave them the opportunity to program their tax obligations in the tax administration, or to pay the debt, and in that case there will be payments to them too. Thus, support has been paid as never before with the aim of making better and better preparation and spring crops and increasing agricultural production as one of the most important strategic branches of the Republic of Croatia's economy. And that's where we're going to get along very easily as Slavons. I mean, like everyone in this town hall. When we talk about the importance of stopping the negative trends and progress of agricultural production in all segments, it is something that is the task of this ministry, it is the task of this Croatian government, it is the task of all of us. We know that as far as self-sufficiency is concerned, I didn't bring props, it would be from me, it's not appropriate, and we say 6 to 8 products that we produce in the Republic of Croatia in sufficient quantities for our market are all missing. Why? Because both the ministry and the institutions have not done their job well enough, nor the local self-government units. If we're going to talk about the availability of agricultural land there was a much greater possibility of some things being done before doing so. We're not going to cry for spilled milk, we're here to try to do the maximum and fix everything in further work that we need to do. One of the things is the subject of these laws. Why the rush? Because I think there were speeches among colleagues Vassic and co-worker Cobankovic on the use of pre-accession funds, it is not unfortunately about 40% of the use of IPARD only in some measures, it is much lower than 20% if we are talking about the amount of charges for users it is 2, somewhat. By the end of 2014, we have over a billion kunas at our disposal. If the advisory service if all agencies and if all those who need to be at the service of agricultural producers are not the right service to help and to do their jobs in the preparation of projects, we will not withdraw those projects. What awaits us when we enter is better off not even talking, I'm talking about the second stage of rural development of 333 million euros in the first year, we withdraw 25% of the funds, which is what we need to prepare ourselves for. I see the great importance of the advisory service here even in this part I think that we have taxed and that counterpart Tyreli said it means informing and educating potential users on the opportunities of pre-accession programmes for agriculture and rural development, IPARD as well as future rural development programmes for the period 2014-2020, active participation in the preparation and implementation of projects of agricultural economies under the IPARD Rural Development Programme, the post-accession rural development programme including preparatory work plans and project documentation, and all in the function of increasing the use of EU funds for agriculture and rural development. If meetings are organised, if chamber jobs are done, for the chamber, for the professional bodies of the chamber, and the rest is not done what needs to be done. do not wake up with agricultural producers, do not be high-quality in the field and do not provide that information, those jobs that our esteemed colleagues in the field are doing excellently in the advisory service. We said that the Agricultural Advisory Service has a tradition and thanks to God in the Republic of Croatia, and in that system, colleagues have already worked well since '91. In the '97 ministry system. as an independent institution, and we believe that by singleing out the Agricultural Advisory Service as... the institutions will continue to work only much better and much better. We have given opinions and reflections and good analysis in the Ministry of Agriculture, good examples, good models that are in the EU, and here we are talking about the way the advisory service works according to the Dutch or Slovenian models where it is not exclusively tied as a state institution that will be tied to the budget, but one good part of its activities is open to both the market and one contractual relationship with end-users, the analysis is done and we will prepare it. But at this point, we think that the functioning of the Agricultural Advisory Service under this proposed law, which I hope you will support and adopt, will be much, much and more efficient and more transparent and better than ever before. This is not just what I'm talking about to the Agriculture Advisory Service and all those agencies that some of you and your colleague Vinkovic mentioned, which are also the same as the Payment Agency and the Croatian Agricultural Agency,... to do differently in that part of the promotion of the sectoral part that they cover towards agricultural producers and family agricultural economics, according to crafts and companies as well. The chamber contribution I think we all served, here at least in the debate I heard that it was not problematic and that no one particularly approves of such a way that was regulated unfortunately by the law that the ruling majority in the previous session passed, and if she knew that this should not and should not be a model for working or working anywhere else in Europe to take down 0.5% of the incentives that, in most cases, the users themselves did not even know that these funds had been removed and their payments for incentives reduced. We had a large number of complaints from the users themselves. I think that one of them went with the lawsuits that on any side of the court would very easily get that court and I think that this way and this correction through this law of abolishing chamber contributions and returning in other forms and funding through membership through all those other provisions that we have put in place, is a good and quality way to operate the Agricultural Chamber. Once again, I want to point out one thing that I find terribly important, and I would like it not to be accidentally misinterpreted. The Ministry of Agriculture is important to me personally and to the Croatian government. The sustainability and importance and need of the Croatian agricultural chamber is not at all questionable. With these amendments and this law we just want to sort of and edit the way the chamber works, make it much better and much more efficient. I think we're talking about nearly 200 thousand agricultural holdings that were this way without being able to choose whether or not they want members of that same agricultural chamber. Of them, only thirty thousand people consumed the right to choose the leadership of the chamber in the election mentioned by counterpart Vasic. We only speak from 18% to 19% of people who... engage in one of the options of choosing leadership. In all other things, I think that and much, much less impact and the possibility of making statements and making views and in any way affecting the work of the chamber itself and defining all those things that should be important. This amount of ten million kuna of chamber contribution will not enter the way we saw in the report that they were spent, whether they were spent in the most qualitative way. I wish there were much more education, much more working with people, much more creating guidelines for making a strategy or setting up some kind of policies in agrarian, and so much private education and travel and very expensive representations, or so on. We believe that both this way and with the choice of people who want to be in the chamber who want the chamber to represent them well and in quality and professionally in cooperation with the new leadership or leadership after the next regular elections, this activity of the chamber will and will improve and improve them. Transparency much better efficiency of work is something that will in any case be a feature of these chambers, to me as a ministry, to me personally as a minister I hope will be a very good and quality partner in all those jobs that we do since the preparation of some legal or sublegal acts and solutions do we always love hearing and thinking of people who are in such an institution. A colleague Đurovic said a good one of the digressions or suggestions where he praised the profession and in any case I know a large number of people who work in the Agricultural Advisory Service and I give them credit for everything they have done and for the knowledge that he has. Not all of us, we know he can't generalize anywhere, but they did their job very well. I think he said the waist should be the most important profession that forms the chamber. Then it's probably on some trail of the story that it's not the public agricultural advisory service that should have entered the chamber, it's the chamber of the advisory service. Given the expertise and quality of people who have worked quite often, quite often, and especially in the last three years they have not had the right and have not been able to work creatively, work on real projects, on real programs. In a conversation with colleagues from the advisory service, we have received a number of complaints, complaints about a model that was back three years, and I think in this way that we will also enable and free the creativity of these people and in a new way, by new settings in the work of advisory services to allow their results to be much better and quantifiable, in most cases quantifiable. We said that on IPARD alone, we have over a billion kunas to use and every new project, every new farmer, every new agricultural economy, crafts or company that will bring a good project that will pass us and that will withdraw funds from the EU will come in handy. There was another little reference to the activities identified as public authorities in the chamber, which will no longer be. We're talking about control. The control measures of rural development and keeping records, direct sales of agricultural holdings, one is prescribed, the latter is prescribed by the act of the minister, and the first is something legally laid down to work by the paying agency. Whether the paying agency in this form, with this number of employees and principled work as it has done so far can be positively assessed because they have done many things of what is negotiated and what will be its basic function. They are very close to obtaining all necessary accreditation and what is done after the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, but there is plenty of room for the progress of their work both on a regional basis and on a basis... County and local as they have and I think that the paying agency together with the advisory service and with other institutions will experience one reorganisation and one even more high quality and better access to the end-user... [[You don't understand.]] the owner of the family holding, i.e. the agricultural producer. [[You don't understand.]] I thank you once again for your opinions, and I think we've made good bill proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6432	I thank the minister. We have a correction to your statement by the minister. Representative Zoran Vinkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6433	I didn't get... The final word on behalf of the club, so here's all I want. [[He doesn't understand it because of a loud announcement.]] I'm glad if the incentives are really paid, I'll pass it on to those Baranjas...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6434	A colleague of Vinkovic's, a correction to an incorrect quote.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6435	Correction, that's a correction.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6436	Do what you're doing to make it right.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6437	Look, I just want to commend if the incentives in the end line are paid. I'll pass that on to the Baranjas who may not have watched now and listened to the minister. But I want to correct the minister's claim that these are good laws. I claim that and that they should have gone to another reading, that they had to be tied to other laws, especially since unless there was an amendment to the law, for example. about the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and Croatia at that time, in this way, without the consent of the two new laws that should never be passed by the establishment and existing of the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. 'Cause who's gonna be a fool...
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6438	Time, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6439	Which fool will pay the mandatory contribution, and then volunteer to report and pay membership fees to the Croatian agricultural chamber. Croatia needs a Croatian agricultural chamber and therefore needs a second reading of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6440	Thank you. We didn't have any more corrections. The debate is over. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I am fixing a break of up to 15 hours, and we are continuing with the point of the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Household Activity Act with the final draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6441	Next item Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber, emergency procedure first and second reading, P.Z. No. 57. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the HDZ Representatives' Club, the SDP Representatives' Club. I would also like Mr. Minister to make a statement on the amendments. If possible first, the Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6442	Thank you, Mr. President. The Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee submitted three amendments and the ministry accepted all three amendments.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6443	Thank you. Amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6444	The HDZ representative club submitted two amendments to Article 4 and Article 5. No amendments are accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6445	Do you want to? You can, Minister, ask for an explanation why the amendments are not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6446	Mandatory membership in Croatia of the agricultural chamber is abolished for the reason that agricultural holdings are, as businesses which operate and act as business entities of any commercial society, crafts, members of the Chamber of Commerce or crafts.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6447	Here you go, Mrs. Sumrak, a representative on behalf of the amendment promoter.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6448	Thank you. Here's what we're asking for is a vote for our amendment and for this explanation. By proposal of this Act, and pursuant to Article 4. It is proposed to abolish mandatory membership of Croatia to the agricultural chamber, thus reducing the importance and role of farmers in the Republic of Croatia. The Chamber system does not know about volunteering, and we do not believe that mandatory membership of one chamber and others cannot be abolished. So we ask ourselves whether it means that the law will change for other chambers such as Croatia's economic, HOK, doctors, lawyers, veterinarians and others. And unless we consider that bill discriminatory and inadmissible. And calling on the Constitution in that, so we find it illogical. In our debate we have equally said given the urgency that we will be... I'm looking for a vote. [[You can't hear the phone.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6449	You had two amendments. The explanation is for, well. If you're into, no, I'm not just saying. I therefore put the amendment one to article four of the HDZ Representatives Clubs. Who's up for the amendment? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Thank you. I Amendment two to Article 5. Who's for the amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club. ... Well, I understood he gave it, okay. Mr. Minister, I'd like an explanation for the amendment to the second why you are. [[You can't hear it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6450	Same as the three amendments with a small supplement. Mandatory membership shall be abolished for the reason that public powers are lifted by the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture and mandatory membership is unnecessary. Voluntary membership will not reduce the importance and role of agriculture and farmers in the Republic of Croatia but leave the possibility of deciding to join the chamber if they see their own interest in it. This proposal of the law only takes away two public powers from the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture which otherwise did not consume, and the possibility of representing and engaging farmers in the chamber remains as such.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6451	Here's Mrs. Djurdzica Sumrak, representative on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6452	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. We at the HDZ Club explain this article is identical to the one before. And since these amendments will not be accepted and we will have to be against the law to the urgency of the procedure of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6453	Thank you very much. Before I put the amendment to the vote, I'm just going to say that I didn't say without reason that I understood that this was an explanation for the first and second amendments, and you also wrote in an explanation that it was the same as for the amendment under Article 4. But well, the extra head doesn't hurt. Thank you very much. I am voting on Amendment 2. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area. Who's in? Not this time. That's usually the rule. The amendment didn't get the required majority. And we have an amendment to the SDP's Club of Representatives on Article 6. Mr. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6454	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6455	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. And I am voting on the final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that most of the votes of 83 votes in favour of, 22 against, 6 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Croatian Agricultural Chamber in the text, as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted. Dear colleagues and colleagues continue at 12. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Household Activity Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 65. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by three committees – for legislation, for tourism and by the Committee on Local, Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Mr. Minister of Tourism Veljko Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6523	Thank you very much, Mr. President, distinguished MPs and distinguished MPs. Here, let me just briefly say in the most significant lines, give me the reasons why this proposal is before you. Proposal for targeted amendments to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Hosting Activity. I say targeted because we wanted to prepare quality this year's tourist season with several key proposals, i.e. avoid the problems that arise, which exist for the regular and normal course of this year's tourist season. We are preparing comprehensive amendments to the Household Activity Act for the autumn of this year so that I am also taking advantage of the opportunity to invite everyone interested to join in preparing these comprehensive amendments. With this proposal, we propose the following. First, it is simplified and shortened the administrative process of issuing a solution to carry out catering activities in cases of continuing to carry out activities in the business space and facility where the catering activity has already been carried out. Second, we allow campers to come up with a temporary solution to carry out catering activities in cases where no concession on tourist land has yet been given in camps owned by the Republic of Croatia, which have applied for its acquisition in accordance with the Law on Tourism and Other Building Land unrated in the process of conversion and privatisation. Thirdly, we extend the deadline for the categorisation of campsites that are categorized by 30 April 2015 and thus enable about 150 campsites in the Republic of Croatia to operate normally during this year's tourist season. The fourth is deleted from the provisions which stipulate that a decision on the fulfilment of the conditions for the type, i.e. the type and category of catering facility will be issued to the host, provided that he is not given a security measure or a safeguard measure to prohibit the exercise of the catering activity by means of a judicial ruling or an infringement decision. The fifth is deleted as a reason for the termination of the economic activity solution and for the conditions of use of the business space or facility and for the condition that the building, or the catering facility, fulfils the conditions in accordance with the specific regulation. We increase the sixth accommodation capacity in which catering services can be provided in the household and up to the capacity prescribed by 2006 in such a way as to suggest that we increase the maximum accommodation capacity in the room, apartment and holiday home from 8 to 10 rooms, i.e. 16 to 20 beds, and in the camp from 7 to 10 accommodation units, i.e. 25 to 30 guests at the same time. And seven, we allow the provision of catering services to continue in the household by the heirs of the tenant. In short, this is the essence of the targeted changes and I reiterate and stress by accepting these changes and supplementing the Law on Hosting Activities we allow the normal, regular functioning of this year's tourist season. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6524	Would anyone like to take a word from the board's representatives? Here you go. Representative Goran Beus Richembergh on behalf of the Committee on Tourism. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6525	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor. The Committee on Tourism of the Croatian Parliament discussed the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Food Activity with the final proposal of the law as the parent working body of the Croatian Parliament. At its 16th session, held yesterday afternoon, the Committee discussed all information presented on behalf of the promoter by tourism minister Mr Veljko Ostojic. In the following debate, the Committee unanimously supported the proposal to bring forward the proposed amendments to the Law on host activities, including in this respect, and to propose to the Croatian Assembly the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements. But here I want to say on behalf of the Committee on Tourism that several important elements of this decision are important to us. First of all, the fact is that the Ministry of Tourism has made one quick I would say a very responsible analysis of the current situation and that this proposal is an amendment and addition in some way a fire-fighting approach to solving a whole series of problems that have been seen in the application of the Law on Hostage over the past years. And the Ministry of Tourism has obviously decided that by intervening the target character in this proposal, the amendments and the addition of the law respond to the existing text of the law in a way that would allow some of the key obstacles to the normal functioning of a whole series of catering facilities to be removed as soon as possible before, especially during the high season, the problems with which the catering sector in tourism has so far had, among other things, great damage. There are therefore several illogicalities which were removed from these proposals in the existing text of the law. And something has also been done to enable all those who are in the process of categorising camps to extend the deadline until 30 April 2015 to prevent possible closure of camps. The second element that is particularly important to us is the fact that the Minister of Tourism has announced comprehensive changes and additions to the Law on Attending, and you have heard today that he has called on all interested parties to participate in this process and in this regard the Committee on Tourism will also be one of those actors who will participate in the process. Therefore, on behalf of the Committee on Tourism, I call on my colleagues to accept and support the proposed amendments and additions to the Household Activity Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6526	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6527	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, I will shorten this report from the Committee on Local Self-Government, given that here we discussed this bill, but in the debate itself, we also highlighted the importance of the issues of full changes and additions, i.e. the creation of a new Household Activity Act. Since there are a number of issues that need to be addressed in this activity, the problem of working hours of catering facilities and the possibility of unit influence of local and regional self-government on the definition and length of working time is particularly highlighted, which is why this partial proposal to address the problem in the catering activity is not listed. And we also believe that during this public debate, local self-government authorities should also be involved in any case. We also raised the question of the work of competent inspectors. When it is known that the categorisation of the camps should be completed, that is, by July 2012, by this year. It is also stated that Croatian tourism has great potential not only in this coastal but also in the continental part, and that changes in the law in this area should also give greater opportunities for the development of continental tourism. The Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government has also unanimously reached the following conclusion: The Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government took the view that it is necessary to make the full amendments and additions to the Household Activity Act, to carry out a public debate, and to include units of local and regional self-government and to extend the competence of local and regional self-government units in the field of catering activities. The Committee itself voted in favour of these amendments and additions to the Household Activity Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6528	Thank you very much. We're going to a club debate. The first word has on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourists Mrs. Nancei Tyreli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6529	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here we support this quick response by the Ministry of Tourism to problems in the catering activity at the beginning of the tourist season 2012. We support the simplification and shortening of the administrative process of issuing a solution to carry out a catering activity for a business space in which the catering activity is originally carried out because it ultimately reduces the costs of the new craftsman in that space, and it speeds up the very procedure of starting the activity. We also support the extension of the deadline for the categorisation of camps that are categorized until 30 April 2015 due to the deadline ending 9 July of this year, here is the question of why only 50 camps in Croatia managed to solve all these papers by 9 July this year. As for the proposal for maximum accommodation capacity in the camp from 7 to 10 accommodation units, i.e. from 25 to 30 guests at the same time, we believe that, in terms of economic sustainability, the optimal number of maximum accommodation in the camp would be 20 accommodation units. The infrastructure as such exists, and if all the building conditions of the investment were met, the revenue would be higher, and that is, the objective of economic development. In particular, the capacity in a rural household operating within the family holding allows for exactly such maximum accommodation capacity of 20 accommodation units, so that non-occupied households and obtain no additional income through the provision of catering services to their own products would increase their accommodation capacity and achieve their income. We would also like to take advantage of the opportunity and draw your attention to several allegedly minor problems, a minor problem, but that is what is very important in this pre-seasonal time. It's about renting apartments in the craft. After multiple complaints from craftsmen, we saw a problem related to renting apartments and craft houses as crafts activities. By way of derogation from Article 34(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 34(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. This law explicitly states that household services cannot be provided by a craftsman, which is a particularly discriminatory provision in relation to craftsmen. When a craftsman wants to rent an apartment, he cannot do so as a citizen, but is obliged to expand his activity. Without intending to avoid expanding activities, craftsmen face an insurmountable obstacle to the outcome of changing the purpose of the holiday house or apartments in business space. The most unresolved issues are related to the possibility of legalising illegal construction and construction, the lack of documentation for inherited properties, the re-use of residential space in which catering services are provided in that business area. The ruling of the Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia of 16.11.2011 pointed out that the craftsman should expand his activity in order to ensure the purpose of the building as well as the provision of Article 269. The law on spatial planning and construction prescribed that the building must be used only in accordance with its purpose. For the purposes of Article 22(1) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the following definitions shall apply: It is prescribed that the host may not start to carry out the catering activity at the facility referred to in Article 9(1) of this Act before obtaining a solution from the competent office or the tourism ministry that the facility fulfils the minimum conditions or conditions prescribed for a specific type and category of facilities. Article 25 of the same law provides for conditions for issuing a solution to the host. In addition, as one of the conditions, it is prescribed by the provision of paragraph 1 of Article 6 of the same Act that the building in which the catering facility meets the conditions in accordance with a specific regulation without which, under that regulation, the ministry or the competent office cannot issue a decision on compliance with the conditions for carrying out the activity. Evidence of the usability of the building as provided for in Article 56(4). Regulation on the classification of minimum conditions and the categorisation of other types of sites from a group of campsites and other types of accommodation facilities, as prescribed by the applicant for the classification and categorisation of accommodation facilities with the other requirement, shall also provide evidence of the usefulness of the building according to specific regulations in the area of construction. These are obstacles similar to those which, in order to preserve and improve the tourism offer, the Ministry of Tourism wanted to avoid the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Hosting Activity, the Final Proposal of the Law of 16 March 2012 which was in the procedure of an emergency procedure. Therefore, we would suggest that Article 38(1) of the proposed amendments to the Law on Attending Activity be amended in accordance with Article 38(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. In order to delete the restricted works by which a craftsman cannot rent vacation facilities as a citizen, or that Article 28 reads, the catering facility in the household may be provided by a natural person in the follow-up text of the renter and shall be deleted from that article, which is not a craftsman or trader of the individual. So the craftsman is by legal definition a natural person, and as such should be recognised by all rights and obligations that other natural persons have. Although the legislator’s intention in adopting a valid law was to have a bearing on the professionalisation of the provision of catering services, the opening of crafts and companies, and the growth of self-employment or employment, this was not achieved and we see that there are problems in certain segments in this matter. Croatian Labourists will support the bill and we thank you once again for the emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6530	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS club, Mr. Representative Boris Blažekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6531	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS will adopt the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Attending Activity from the Reasons provided by the Committee on Tourism, which was given by the Government and from our position. In fact, the first thing I would like to point out is that this is something that the HNS as a party has repeatedly advocated, which is to simplify the procedures and conditions of work of entrepreneurs, to simplify the procedures and regulations of the lives of all citizens. Politics, politicians and all of us serve together only to make our fellow citizens' lives simpler and easier. It is one of these procedures, and therefore we are more than satisfied that such a law is passed that allows for simplification, shortening the procedures of issuing certain permits, and I have to admit it in a relatively short time and at the right time because it concerns the matter that comes in line with the tourist season that seems to have started with the Easter. This law, as already stated, regulates the issues of simplification, shortening the administrative procedure, issuing a solution to carry out catering activities in cases of continuing to carry out business activities in the establishment which have already been carried out in the catering activity, and there is a very clear, good and not that it will not be controlled. Also, the other 6 and 7 rules that allow them to simplify the procedures for the outcome of certain solutions. They also have an absolute resonation and are founded in the possibility that caterers or tourist workers perform their activities in accordance with the law in order not to accidentally work illegally. Otherwise, we feel that all the laws should turn in this direction, that it is becoming simpler and should probably establish one body that seems to me to have already been in history which would have been seen to deregulate and denorise the ferocity of Croatian legislation. Otherwise hospitality as an economic branch is incredibly important. Today, it has completely different connotations than it had 30, 40 or 50 years ago, and that is the pride of the feathering of various countries where it introduces the concept of gastronomy where certain countries are praised with their gastronomys and is particularly known and talked about Italian cuisine, about French cuisine about Mexican cuisine. And also important is the economic branch because it employs a number of absolutely numerous citizens of the Republic of Croatia. It is a pity that this entire tourism branch comes down to some situations and a minorization of the importance of catering workers, tourist workers, that we are all waiters and that we will be aware of waiters and maids, which are extremely valuable workers who are hard to earn their bread. It's an awful lot of hard work, the caterers get up at 5:00 to go to the market and get fresh food, go to sleep at 3:00 after they've washed up, clean up a complete catering facility so they can take new guests again the next day and get up again at 5:00. In any case, there is more to be looked after as far as catering activities are concerned. In my view, one of the things that needs to be looked after is the concentration of catering facilities in certain areas, in certain areas, because it happens to us that because of the excessive concentration of catering facilities, there is no real effect, economic effect for the caterers themselves, and neither for the local community nor for the state. For example, in certain areas in certain areas, the increase in tourism traffic is 15 or 20%, and the increase in catering facilities is, say, 200%. And then we come to the fact that no one really makes a living, that competition becomes unfair, that it goes through a variety of unfair actions in destroying competition. It is very important to constantly raise the quality and standards of existing catering facilities and the minimum technical conditions of popular MTU that constantly invites guests are something that is terribly important and they should be constantly raised. It is not that something needs to be reduced there, it should be constantly corrected in terms of simplification, but in any case raising quality, primarily in that sanitary area, the health sanitary part but in any case all other equipment. We in the HNS believe that the introduction of fiscal registers, tax registers and certainly that one of the random needs for the development of hospitality in Croatia is to raise quality, for the establishment of Croatian hospitality and education. In this context, we also think that a competent ministry such as the Ministry of Education, but also the Ministry of Tourism can significantly help to raise education not all the time but the quality of education, standards of education and standards in catering because it is also important for the positioning of hospitality, but also for the positioning of Croatia on the tourist market. We will, in any case, give and support all innovations, all creations that should come from the Ministry of Tourism, which exist in the world and do not have to do everything from scratch to beginning, but some things can be taken over, and in particular we will always respond positively to all those laws that facilitate and simplify, and not reduce the quality of any activity in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6532	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Giovanni Sponza on behalf of the IDS Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6533	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. Secretary-in-Office, dear Madam Assistant Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Looking at the context of all the negative conditions, which are caused by the global crisis, but also by a number of national ones as well as the failures and difficulties back several years, so today tourism in Croatia is the activity that depends on, whether recognised or not, the financial stability of the entire community and, unfortunately, it wants to be so, until other branches, other areas and other activities are launched, and certainly we need to contribute to that. Tourism is a multiplier and makes a significant contribution to the development of a whole range of other areas, from construction to the necessary infrastructure procedures, and agriculture and final and finally to cultural events. I will allow myself, on this occasion, to say that the current activities of the Ministry of Tourism, but also of the minister who comes directly from this sector, indicate and confirm full competence because the problems are perceived from the day-to-day to the procedural legislative and essential ones. Essentially, such as the differentiated VAT rate, which is to be applied from 1.1.2013, then the already expected and announced debate on the Croatian Tourism Development Strategy in the autumn, as well as the necessary changes to the current non-implementable Tourism Land Act, which will certainly be an interesting topic of discussion on this highest body of the Croatian state for reasons why the current particular, narrow financial interests of tourist entities and by means of legal means have tried to obtain ownership of valuable tourist land, which has not entered the process of conversion and privatisation. I am a personal and firm attitude, and I point out that we must pay particular attention to this, but on the other hand, I am sure that we will be wise enough and that we will not needlessly burden the tourism sector because additional burdens and burdens, and tourism is indeed a fragile activity in no way should we take away the potential of growth and development and investment for tourist entities. And I think that this art and the Ministry of Justice will, but surely the competence of the Ministry of Tourism will find one yet win-win and a sustainable combination in which all that land that is valuable on the beautiful Croatian coast remains state. Personally, as well as the mayor, I would not mind being in charge of local self-government units because I also consider myself a representative of the state of Croatia at a local level. However, I would now return to these amendments and amendments to the law and look back at the two substantive and targeted changes, and the first one is to encourage, above all, a positive climate and environment for tourist workers, both for tourism operators and for all those who deal with tourism because it simplifies and shortens administrative procedures, because it eliminates a rigid decentralised state administration with unnecessary paperwork, and thus facilitates business. The minister himself announced and said in his explanation that these targeted changes make it possible to work in camps because if these changes were not adopted, it means that a large part of the camps in Croatia would be closed. I would like to highlight the fact that the campsites account for a total of 25% of the accommodation facilities at Croatia level, which certainly affects the quality tourist offer as well as the total tourist traffic. Given that the proposed amendments to the law provide conditions for a normal tourist season, and as the minister himself announced that the expected total financial effects of 7 billion euros were also expected, I would also like to point out on this occasion that Istria as a feather of Croatian tourism contributes with about 33% of the total of both tourism and financial traffic. We from the Club of Representatives of the Istrian Democratic Assembly want to support this proposal to amend and supplement the law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6534	Thank you very much. Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic on behalf of the club, and Mr. President of Luka Denon is next on behalf of the SDP club. Here you go. No, but you get so often, it's no wonder I can call you then.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6535	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. At first, let me say that the SDP Club will, of course, support this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Household Activity Act. And for all of these reasons that the minister in his opening statement taxed, by calculating, of course, that these changes that we are now bringing will really make it easier for the guests at the beginning of this tourist season, I would say the work that is ahead of them. And of course, convinced that the minister who is here, as we have heard from the predecessors, will really know the opportunity in tourist activities not only for the reason that in one term he was as assistant minister or deputy minister but as he had the opportunity and in practice and in his work to make sure that in hospitality, in hotel and in other branches of tourism things work. I believe that this experience will be really welcome in making this one whole law. Because the law that was passed in 2006 and which has experienced 3 changes to this day and this is the fourth. So, in 2008, when we only changed the House Tax Act but these other two and eight and two and nine. In fact, in 2009 and 2010, we're changing it again. Obviously, then, one consistent law is needed to be passed in order to know how to do it, in order to know. Change is never good if it's quite common. It means that something in the legal provisions themselves is not well defined. Because if there's a problem with implementing that law, then the law really isn't worth it, so it needs to be changed. So, like I said, we're going to support these changes. Of course, I personally have one or two grudges, so allow me, Mr. Minister, to see if here is a purely well-intentioned, maybe I'll try something to say about it. This is good to simplify and shorten the administrative process of issuing solutions for hosting activities. I think that's good, because with these frequent changes in the restaurant, it's necessary that the less they prepare or prepare to solve it paper, the less these changes and additions allow it to be much faster. I also support this provision that enables camp guests to come up with a temporary solution to carry out catering activities in cases where they are indicated that this is also simplified. And I think it's kind of good until finally and fully solved the problem of this tourist land and the land that has entered the privatisation, which is the property of the Republic of Croatia, that this must be resolved in one unique way. Because according to your assessment and assessment, if this happens this way now, as you suggest, and we support that such a proposed solution would allow for legal business for the caterers and who already have regulated camps according to the conditions and regulations prescribed for the type and category of camp. It would avoid possible business on the black. So, so far, we have had this opportunity to do business on black, which I think today in 2012 about this black business in a regulated state should not be mentioned again and that it should really be prevented in some way. It is also necessary and necessary to extend the time limit for the categorisation of camps until 2012 until July 2012. Of course, it's justified to have it by 2015. So I'm asking you that when we write a whole law, it means probably by the end of this year, and that deadline is somewhere, or that one that you've listed now, or that it's going to be one optimal time when that categorization can really be done. Because the facts are that some minority camps still respected that deadline and established categorization, and the rest of the old solutions did not do so somewhere around 150 camps. The question is seven, eight years, how long it took to do that categorization that some in the departments were doing. Either there was no incentive for these camps to be categorized or there was no control to really do as the law stated. Well, then, this deadline that you yourself set in 2015. Here, please be either enforceable or extend it in that final decision of the law to a deadline that will then be possible to implement to be respected and that it is indeed the right provision of the law. The only argument I have is that this argument of yours under number four is to delete the provisions which stipulate that a decision on the fulfilment of the conditions for the type or type and category of catering facility will be issued to the host, provided that he is not given a measure of safety or a safeguard against the exercise of catering activity. Your argument is that, in practice, it has shown that a small number of security measures or safeguard measures are being imposed and the process of establishing those conditions extends the procedure and restricting it in terms of respecting the legal deadline for issuing a solution. In addition, it is estimated that unnecessarily the competent authorities are burdened. Someone who has a power of judgment or a solution to the offence has been given a security measure or a safeguard measure to ban the exercise of catering activity seems to me that it shouldn't be because it's a few cases, and now we're not going to use it anywhere. I don't think that's good, you're suggesting that some other bodies will do it. Whenever you're hired somewhere and you're admitted to a new working relationship, then they always tell you to bring in a certificate of impunity, so you have to do it. So I don't think these other bodies know how much they'll be enough not to get through this eradication of this article and some people whose verdict is really not the place to deal with catering activities. In any case, it won't be unnecessary to burden the competent authorities. The competent authorities are for them to try to make such beliefs quickly and efficiently. And of course, what you have determined to increase the accommodation capacity in which catering services can be provided in the household and up to the capacity prescribed by 2006 and although it was a good intention to mean a change of that law in the capacity section to professionalise the activity, provide the activities of catering services, which means that then in some ways rises and quality in these catering facilities and raises the quality of catering services. I don't know if it's a good thing we're expanding it in the way it's proposed here, but I believe that in one comprehensive law and this expansion somewhere, it's going to be optimally able to determine who it is. Because it really is the purpose of catering and all that is involved in the dealings of people who are either a profession or an activity, or they live on it, and then it is really more on one professional level because of the higher quality, not that we are all doing it. Of course, this article, which enables the provision of household catering services by the heirs of the tenant, is also welcome to make it easier for the heirs to continue the activity of those who have inherited it. And I think it's a good way to help these people in this year, too, not to work in black, but to actually get that consent with some little paper, so that they do tourism one way. Here, Mr. Minister, in the expectation that the new law will indeed, and because of your experience, cover all of this, the misunderstandings and shortcomings that occur in the catering activity, I believe that it will be complete, that it will assume all these things that have been happening so far and that it will at least last until the end of our term. Because a law that doesn't last four years and during one term, then we've made a mistake somewhere in the settings of that law and in the implementation of that law. Here I hope it doesn't come to this and that this second law at the end of the year will be really right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6536	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB club, Mr. Representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6537	Thank you, Mr. President. The HDSSB Club will support the changes to this law, and we will all obviously have to pray to the dear God for at least one 4.5 months to be a temperature of 25 to 32, that there is a lot of sun, that the sea is warm today because clearly tourism has become the only way out of this deep crisis which is not imported from the outside but which, above all, is the Croatian government, I don't think now that it hasn't had that much time to make it, but which makes it very little to prevent further collapse into a gap that I said during that former government that followed it by that route we go further, and they didn't even realize that they're falling into deep collapse. Although they were engaged in tourism because they had a captain with a little vitre, but that's now the past I consider many do not want to return. I say the HDSSB club will support these amendments to the law solely because the tourist season has already begun, but apparently certain institutions, I mean, above all, state institutions, but also those not institutions but legal and physical persons in which the camps and these accommodation facilities owned obviously did not do their job, because I recall the last law was passed and the legislation itself and the applicable law in 2004, where camps and other types of accommodation facilities were obliged to come up with solutions on categorisation within the deadline that expires this year on 9 July. So obviously all eight years ago, we've been waiting for tourists, and we haven't done anything to solve this problem. And I understand at this point the minister himself, but also only the ministry, because it could really happen to us that certain accommodation facilities accept guests, and then some competent institutions that do not agree with the tourist resources of the Republic of Croatia simply make a decision on closing camps, private accommodation and even certain hotels. Because that was in the near past, too. I hope it won't be in the near future. The HDSSB Club considers it necessary to implement an emergency procedure and to amend the entire Household Act, but also the entire Trade Act, which is closely related to the catering activity and to the overall tourist activity. I am also pleased that the minister announced that this is only a partial amendment to the law that allows for the practical reception of guests during this tourist season in certain accommodation facilities. We also believe that all units of local self-government must be involved in the public debate because they are not only leaders, not just mayors, mayors and mayors in regional self-government who are the first to say so on the first one, I would not say the front line, but the first ones face problems that are related to one another and to tourism. And what we would particularly like to emphasise, I want to take advantage of the presence of the Minister of Tourism himself is exactly what Croatia has been and has been blind and blindfolded so far and concerns the development of continental tourism. Because tourism in Croatia is not only the Adriatic, not only the Plitvice Lakes, it is fortunate that God has given us that we also have Plitvice Lakes and Mother Nature, as well as the most beautiful seas in the world, but all these years since the independence of the Republic of Croatia, because I will not return to Yugoslavia any government has seen and seen the importance of the development of continental tourism, which is also a great possibility of developing Croatian tourism at the end and the possibility of a new and large employment. I also call on the minister to actively participate in the fairer distribution of this tourist cake and to change this relationship that has so far been considered that 90% of these funds have gone towards the Adriatic, and only 10 or even less 10% towards the development of continental tourism, since there are numerous possibilities, someone here mentioned gastronomy, indeed from Slavonian cuisine, Slavonian ham, sausages, towers to those traditional Slavonian dishes, not to mention Dalmatian ham and pasticade and I don't know which dishes, but indeed Croatia has a great opportunity to offer a further step in the development of continental tourism that we don't meet on the Adriatic and on the continent with Leskowska mascarica or kevapi or shivapi most often offered in the catering facilities to those too expensive fish that God put in the sea. Well, often those hernia teeth are like a pig in Slavonia to be raised, I'm not talking about private breeding sites here, Mr. Baranovic. There are certainly numerous manifestations on the continent. Since I come from the heart of Slavonia from Djakov. I hope you know about the Đakova alliances that will be held this year for the 46th time, which have been here all these 46 years, and even that time that Croatian people's dungeon were the lighthouses of Croatia like those bell towers of Strossmayer's cathedral, so I would ask you not only morally but also financially to engage in support of such events as the Đakovki bonds. There are a number of nature parks, first of all I'm talking about Slavonia and Baranja from Kopački rit, whether or not I care whether there have been any fires this year, there are also undiscovered beauty to say Slavonia and Baranja as well as the entire continent of Croatia, so I think that with the development of tourism on the Adriatic this ministry should finally turn to the development of continental tourism because there is indeed one great possibility of developing Croatian tourism and really new employment. From financial support, from promotion because I have not seen at any fair for which the Croatian Tourist Board, and richly and the Ministry of Tourism, give fat money, kunas, dollars, euros when they go to promote Croatian tourism abroad from New York, Japan to what countries, I have not seen that promotion and development of continental tourism except Plitvice Lakes, but Plitvice Lakes are not the only thing that Croatia can offer to foreign visitors. And hopefully given that we are also involved as a unit of local self-government, for example. in the construction of a 5-star hotel, it will be the only hotel in Slavonia with 5 real stars built in Đakova and which will most likely be opened per year. I believe that this ministry must finally be removed from that old habit, practically give the possibility of a even development of tourism throughout the Republic of Croatia. Finally, realizing the situation in which tourist workers and camps are located this year, understanding the situation in which many guests could find themselves not only and I hope that there will be plenty of domestic guests in view of the prices on the Adriatic and that there will be more and more and more foreign tourists every year, we will support this law. But I am looking for a more urgent procedure for the adoption of a whole solution that is related not only to the catering activity but to the overall tourism and development of tourism in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6538	Thank you very much. Correction of the incorrect allegations, Mr. Representative Petar Baranovic, as if he had forgotten that he had highlighted the tile. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6539	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The correction of the incorrect quote refers to the reference to the discussion of the price of fish, the esteemed representative alluded to me as a private breeder. I wasn't a private breeder. I was a professional fisherman. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6540	Now you have again proven to Mr. Vinkovic that the correcting of the incorrect allegations should be lifted. I gave you to speak, and you have no right to speak because you see how embarrassing it is when someone with some claim of theirs pushes you away, and you have no right to answer. Thank you very much. In an individual debate, Mr. Pedja Grbin first called. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6541	Thank you, Mr. President. The largest medulla camp closed, the camp closed, the camp didn't work. These are newspaper headlines that we had a chance to read last year and last year because our country passed certain laws, certain regulations, and then failed to follow them. And what happened? Certain tenants or certain hosts who had campsites were unable to obtain categorization and were not able to do so legally, in a legal manner. As previously stated in the debate, camps account for 25% of the accommodation capacities of the Republic of Croatia. The regulations, first of all by law relating to tourist land, the work of many camps has been disabled and that is why I am extremely happy that the ministry has decided to help our guests work with such a transitional solution. I further believe, and this has already been apostropheded earlier in the debate, that it is certainly necessary to approach the amendments to the law that regulates the issue of tourist land because in this form as we have it, it is not only inconclusive but also harmful. But it is sad that even under such a harmful law, the state did not collect a concession or compensation to which it was entitled, which was prescribed by the transitional and final provisions of that law, and some estimates even amounted to 50 million kuna per year. I therefore think that the ministry should also encourage a debate on the amendments and additions to this law regarding tourism land. Furthermore, in this law it is particularly good that the deadline for categorization is extended because we saw, in July of this year 150 camps and 3/4 camps in the Republic of Croatia have to close the door. Nor should it be explained what such a situation would mean for Croatian tourism, for the Croatian budget, but also for all those citizens living in places where such camps are located. One word would have failed. That is why the amendments to this law should be supported, but not only should they be supported. There was a heated debate in this home yesterday about whether the laws need urgent or regular procedures. The fact is that there are many laws for which a regular procedure would be more appropriate, but this is, in my court, a classic example of a law that we must pass in an emergency procedure because otherwise, it would be extremely harmful for the Republic of Croatia and for its economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6542	Thank you very much. We've completed an individual discussion. On behalf of the legislator, Mr. Veljko Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6543	Mr. President, the Honorable Madam MPs, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. I thank you for all the suggestions, suggestions, amendments delivered. During today's afternoon on them and officially, we will show ourselves and during tomorrow's day we will also submit a final version of the amendments and additions to the law. Some of the amendments will be accepted anyway. And what I want to point out once again and confirm, of course, the overall, comprehensive amendment and addition of the Household Activity Act will be launched in the third quarter with the ambition to pass the law somewhere in the autumn, so 10, 11 months. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-04-19-0.u6544	Thank you very much, Minister. The debate on the text of the law is over. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And don't be surprised, so we've talked before, we'll try to work otherwise as long as possible, round up a certain agenda point by half-five, half-six at the most, and we'll end up working today. Tomorrow we will continue at 9.30 p.m. with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Cemeterys as scheduled, so that I say immediately we must get used to the fact that then the committees are also organised by Mondays and Tuesdays, exclusively in plenary sessions in breaks so that we can really work in a satisfactory way with a full and better effect than ever. Thank you very much. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Food Activity, with a final proposal for a law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 65. The debate is closed. The proposer accepted the amendments submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and by Mr Peja Grbin. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? Thank you. I find that most votes, 88 votes in favour, 21 against and 1 abstentions have been adopted by the Law amending and supplementing the Law on host activity in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
