ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23790	... point: - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on the acquisition and exchange of services (USA-HRV-02), emergency procedure, first and second reading, CZ No. 200 Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. [[Home is not saved.]] You've received the proposal in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate on the proposal was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Introductoryly, on behalf of the Proposer, Deputy Minister of State Mrs Višnja Tafra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23791	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. In accordance with the Law on the conclusion and execution of international contracts, the proposed law confirms the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on the acquisition and exchange of services (USA-HRV-02) signed in August of this year. The proposed agreement provides a framework for cooperation in the field of military logistics as part of continued progress in the co-operation of the defence ministries of the two countries. The agreement can be used in the range of military activities within the framework of peacekeeping missions, participation in joint exercises and training, deployment of forces, operations and humanitarian assistance activities. On the basis of the US Armed Forces agreement, they exchange logistics support and, most often, food, fuel, transport, ammunition, equipment with the explicit exclusion of the logistics support of material resources and services whose transport is prohibited by national laws and regulations or is not acceptable at national level at both states. The Agreement provides for a type of support that can be provided, the conditions and procedures for its provision, the costs incurred by the parties or excluded as well as data security. All parties' activities under this Agreement and any implementing arrangements will be implemented in accordance with their national legislation. After the entry into force of this Agreement, this Agreement shall fully replace the Agreement on legal and financial procedures and the standards of logistics support signed by the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia with the US Department of Defence in 2002 for a period of 10 years. In view of the area covered by the Agreement and given that it is a military nature agreement in accordance with the Constitution, it has been established that there is a need to conclude an international contract indefinitely instead of extending the agreement I was telling you about. The agreement does not require the amendment of existing laws or the adoption of new laws but is subject to confirmation by the Croatian Parliament. And given the nature of the process of confirming international contracts that the state formally expresses its willingness to be bound by an already concluded international contract and the fact that, at this stage of the procedure, it is generally impossible to amend and supplement the text that we propose to adopt it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23792	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We're going to a club debate. The first is the HDZ Club and colleague Davor Ivo Stier.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23793	Dear Madam Vice President, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Representatives Club will support the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States of America on the acquisition and exchange of services. This bilateral agreement will indeed create a legal framework for the intensification and further development of cooperation between the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the US Army, which we consider necessary and desirable for a number of reasons. On a purely defence plan of co-operation with our NATO allies, and in particular with the United States, it has made it possible to continue to develop professional military personnel of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to improve the overall Croatian defence system. Joint exercises with allies, especially in the performance of their military duties in peacekeeping missions around the world, members of the Croatian Armed Sagas stressed their professionalism and thus significantly contributed to the achievement of Croatian national interests on the international agenda in line with the Croatian Parliament's decisions. In order to continue to meet these tasks successfully, the Croatian Parliament must provide them with the best possible conditions and support. That is why this agreement with the United States is important because it regulates and facilitates the provision of the necessary logistics support to our troops as well as their adequate training and equipment. Just yesterday in this assembly, during a debate on the Law on Croatian Defences, we stressed the importance of logistic support for the victory over the large Serb aggressor. The Croatian Armed Forces today with the pride of heritage that victorious spirit from the Homeland War. With the preservation of such a spirit, the creation and defence of an independent state in Croatia's military today needs new investments in modernising training and equipment to preserve those capabilities it needs to successfully carry out its mission and tasks under the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. We are therefore convinced in our club that a bilateral agreement with the United States should be confirmed because it will ensure greater flexibility and interoperability of the Croatian Armed Forces in the field of logistics, thereby increasing the safety of our soldiers in peacekeeping missions. Ladies and gentlemen, about 15.00 hours local time yesterday near Damascus's airport, a car column was attacked with members of the Croatian and Austrian contingent at the UNDOF Peace Mission in Golanska visorna. Thank God none of the Croatian soldiers were injured but four members of the Austrian Armed Forces who were fortunately out of danger. However, the attack on UN forces shows that there are no international missions without risk, even when it is not NATO's missions but the UN. This attack also reminds us of our duty in the Croatian Parliament to provide the best means and conditions for logistics support, for adequate equipment and training of Croatian soldiers. In this we must, of course, be unique, especially in support of our officers and officers, all active military personnel who contribute to international security in Croatian uniforms far from their homes, far from home, and serving Croatia with their professionalism and military calling. To all of them, all of our soldiers and their families, we want to send a message that they have the support of Croatian citizens and their representatives in this House of Highs. My colleagues and colleagues, I mentioned earlier that the proposed agreement with the United States is important for the development of the Croatian defence system, but it also has positive implications for the overall Croatian-American relations. If I can bring my experience in diplomacy into this debate, then I would have to point out that without developed cooperation with America, and especially with the Pentagon, we would probably not be able to achieve all strategic goals of the Croatian state. I do not think that anyone else has done the job for us, but that we have managed to create a lasting and solid alliance with developed democracies, and that this has been of crucial importance to us for the defence and release of Croatia, to remove the the thesis of our enemies that Croatia has created on the crime of taking a place that belongs to Croatia in a free and united Europe and in the transatlantic alliance of Western democracies. The alliance that we have with the United States is understood and which we now strengthen by this agreement requires attention to two key elements. The first is credibility, visibility and continuity of state policy. It is a constant investment in relations with the United States, but also other allies in Europe, and in this respect it is good that there is a period behind us of flirting at least part of the state summit with the movement of non-classified dictators. Another key element is the systematic approach to allied relations with the positions of Croatian national interests, i.e. putting the alliance in a position to achieve our strategic goals and in this respect Croatia has progressed. Today's relations with the United States are no longer relevant for the positioning of a politician or political force within Croatia as it was in late '90s or before the 2000 elections. Allied relations with America no longer depend crucially on who is in power in Zagreb or Washington, but it is therefore in the first plan of forming these relations in a way that serves common goals and interests. I think that Croatian citizens these days are much clearer which are all benefits from allied relations with America, but we must also be aware of the responsibilities that this alliance also carries, and this primarily refers to Croatia's role as a factor of stability in SEE Europe. After the 16th November finally successfully solved some major national topics, our responsibility to the neighbouring region is no smaller than it is, and we have no challenges here. Because of our interests, we must not give up normalising relations with Serbia, but in any way already adhere to the 1996 Normalisation Agreement, asking Belgrade to also adhere to what it signed. In view of our interests, we must also focus our alliance with America on helping neighbouring friendly BiH whose future depends on all three constituent nations and all BiH citizens becoming equal. The Croatian-American alliance must also be felt in neighbouring BiH, not in terms of inefficient or illegal intervention of the domestic affairs of another country, but as an incentive and guarantee to those in BiH who want to build peace and a European future based on respect for the rights of the Croatian people and other constituent peoples and all citizens of BiH. Comrades and colleagues, today we have an agreement with the United States on defence cooperation in the field of logistics support and exchange of services, but we must also take into account this broad picture. That is why the HDZ Club will support this proposal for a bill to confirm a bilateral agreement with the United States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23794	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23795	Dear Madam Vice President, Deputy Minister. The HDSB club will support this agreement, which is perfectly normal because only crazy political options or crazy heads would not accept this agreement. But we want to point out precisely because of the situation in which the HV is located, I don't mean the human factor in the HV, but before all the state of technology, functionality and technology and equipment of the HV, no matter how long we've been a NATO member and members of the Euro-Atlantic integration we want to warn about, because this is, above all, the signature I would say David and Goliath, although we have experience from the Homeland War, where exactly David and the members of the Assembly of the National Guard have defeated that Goliath, or that hated so-called "HV." The Yugoslav People's Army, or the Serbian Army. For this very reason I want to open and open and I would say a number of problems related to the state of functionality and equipment within the Croatian Army and reminding you of a long number of years other than the purchase of the truck have not done anything in the equipment, nothing functional in the equipment of the Croatian Army. I would first of all like to remind you of the situation in the Air Force, the state of combat preparedness. That is exactly the point of signing this Agreement. For those who don't understand military terminology at this point, we probably have one moment in office and several of those school planes that train new pilots who have been promised apartments, who are promised progress. We've got a couple of helicopters in operation. I hope I'm not going into military secrecy because it's a common known thing, so here I would like the deputy to tell me if it's a military secret that the state of equipment that is visible, visible over the Croatian sky, then I will interrupt the story of these problems that are inside. But that's a fact. So, the height and height of Croatian officers' salaries, the equipment is similar, I started the story of members of Croatian Air Force, pilots who during, or before schooling were a series of those ads where a secure job was promised, promotion in the profession, insurance of housing to this day almost 0.2% managed to ensure that they were promised not only through the media but also through the laws that the Croatian Parliament had brought. Until more than 99% of it didn't work out. Similar to the equipment of the Croatian Navy, I will only open a few problems concerning the function of certain polygons on which the Croatian Land Army should be trained and together with certain other types of military training. First of all, I am referring to the Gašinca polygon where I was also answered in my letter, i.e. the answer to the parliamentary question very vaguely answered to the fate of that military polygon, which is one of the largest in Europe somewhere the size of that... in the Federal Republic of Germany. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There, by the way, Elvis Presley served his military time in Europe. Otherwise, I have visited this NATO base myself, so I believe that, with this agreement and the importance of the Republic of Croatia in the geo-political plan, the government should also consider these polygons. As regards the assessment of the resources necessary for the implementation of the law. This law states that there is no need to provide additional financial resources in the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia as it will take place through regular activities of the Ministry of Defence and the State budget funds intended for the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia will be used. I don't think these funds will be enough, that we should, first of all, look at that for a long number of years at the Department of Defense, the biggest cuts have been made in the state budget. We support the emergency procedure of passing this law and support the adoption. I hope, therefore, that I did not enter the level of what is called a military secret by analysing this framework without getting into the depths of these problems that are related to the equipment and functionality of the Croatian Army. I hope I didn't get into what's called a military secret. Here, fortunately there is not yet this broadcast on Croatian television. We support the law and here we call upon the Ministry to, not only visit our members on peacekeeping missions, but also to be with them, to know what they are doing, what dangers they pose. But also to analyse the state of equipment of the Croatian Army. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23796	Thank you. And now, on behalf of the HDSSB club, Boro Grubisic will finally speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23797	Thank you very much. They asked me why I was on behalf of the club when Zoran Vinkovic was already speaking. This is the final word. So that's two different things, so it's clearly the chairman, which is why I took the floor, the final word on behalf of the club. In fact, counterpart Vinkovic said it was entirely too much for us as a member of the NATO Pact to have such an agreement with NATO's leading member of the pact. So, the strongest military force in the world -- the United States. We need to make that clear to our public. It does not involve any opening of military US bases in the Republic of Croatia so that it may be suspected from any, amongst the lines. However, there is neither between the lines nor the public, clearly and loudly, therefore, it is rather than about an agreement that allows for the exchange of logistics, support and everything else between the United States and Croatia. Croatia participates in numerous peace processes, most of them, of these peace processes and stationed military forces in the world by numbers and by material expenditures and by support of military forces by the United States. We're in this as a country with 4 million and we still don't know how much since the DZS hasn't yet published the data on how much we're relatively high we're represented. That's why everything needs a deal like this. But what I wanted to say in the final word, which is what it says on page 5 and 6. Namely, here it is clear and loud to say that America and the nuclear military force with the arsenal of nuclear nuclear weapons and highly sophisticated murderous chemical, biological and all other means. For this reason, and in connection with this legislative proposal, it should be said that it is also pointed out that it is, and that is foreseen, that the items which are not acceptable for transfer under this Agreement are those that are explicitly excluded from its framework, which are precisely the transfer of such war funds. So nuclear weapons, chemical and biological means. It clearly says this, so nuclear ammunition has been shut down, then chemical ammunition that doesn't include riot control agents, though. This is where we're going to have, maybe get our police highly sophisticated chemicals chemical to stop the riots. It used to be that regular tear gas, right? So that nuclear arsenal that has been spoken of lately does not include, especially after the bombing of Serbia's Kosovo on impoverished uranium and the action of poored uranium on human health, the environment and everything else. Here, that's why I took the final word to say that such funds in exchange or in any logistics support in the territory of the Republic of Croatia have been excluded. If the agreement is implemented consistently and clearly there is no such danger. And that's what the public needs to know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23798	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, Deputy Defence Minister Mrs Višnja Tafra.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23799	Here is only in the final word thank you to those who supported this agreement, but that even though we are already in the Croatian Parliament and I am passing on the latest information that our members have been happily landed at the port of Zagreb at 00:10 p.m. tonight and everyone is well. As for the rest of the matter as some colleagues here, Mr. MPs said, so Mr. Vinkovic didn't enter the area of military secrecy, unfortunately you weren't present this year when the Defence Ministry budget was being presented, so we presented everything planned in the next year, meaning in part of the modernisation of the Armed Forces to do for the money we got, so I would just briefly tell you what it is of the basic things we intend to do means for members of the Armed Forces from the budget that is also 4 billion and 800 million kuna this year. So, these days, a decision was made on the proposal of the Military Technical Council, the defence minister made a decision on the remonting of the MiGs 21st. Then by the end of the year, a tender for the purchase of 5 coastal patrol ships will be launched. The following year, a remont of helicopters are planned to drain the resources so that the helicopters are currently in extremely good shape and there is no claim that helicopters can't take off. The adaptation of cadet accommodation facilities is also planned, meaning future members of the Armed Forces. A new ABKO system to be used means Armed Forces is also available to the entire Croatian state in the event of any possible incidents. Then, conditions are created for the introduction of a new system of NATO's anti-aircraft defence. So, for next year, we're predicting a part of the funds. Project... We hope next year will be over, it's about a combat armored vehicle. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] For the next year, we still have 17 coastal patrol ships to pay and the purchase plans mean 8 armed sleepers 30 mm for combat armored vehicles. Similarly, the system of their interconnection will be completed that communication is possible. As far as the Gashinci polygon is concerned, the Gashinci polygon remains a perspective for the Armed Forces. Equally, the next year plans to build up the "PEREGRIN" radar system, which will also enable Croatia to connect with the Ministry of Interior means to safeguard the sea border, which is taken over by the Ministry of Internal Affairs of Border Control at the time of Croatia's entry into the EU. That you invited our leading men of the Ministry of Defence to visit members of our Armed Forces who are on peacekeeping missions, as you know the defence minister last month means he visited our members in Afghanistan and convinced himself that they live, work and operate on the ground. What Mr Grubisic said was that in his opening statement, I said that everything that was stated on the page. 5 that it is not acceptable to national legislation and is definitely not subject to this Agreement, since the exchange of this type of logistics support is not acceptable to national legislation. Here's another thank you for supporting this agreement.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23800	Thank you very much. Two replicas to your exposure. Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23801	Well, look, I'm not a member of the parent board, but I have a budget in my hands, so I couldn't even be at the presentation of everything the Defense Department wants to do. But since I know how to read the budget from it and to read something and it shows first of all that I was right, that the current situation in the Croatian Army is as bad as it is. I'm not accusing you or the minister now. I am not talking about the human factor but first of all about the state of the technique that the Croatian military owns and the state of the technique that is not available in the Croatian Army. And all that you listed were plans, plans that need to be implemented, implemented and you didn't talk about the current state. I don't think there's anything wrong with what you said and what I said. I claim that today's situation, I'm not talking about the human factor, about the human resources that Stipe Mesic likes to say, and someone here mentioned non-classified etc., if we can achieve cooperation with any country in the world particularly economically, then it's extremely good if we can sell Croatian product there. So hopefully, here and according to this budget, if it is fulfilled that this situation will improve and that we will further invest in the development of the Croatian Army. And about the flats of someone else at the time, you didn't even answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23802	Thank you very much. Please, colleagues and colleagues, if you talk outside, you're disturbing those who are arguing. The reply to the replica of Deputy Minister Mrs. Tafra.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23803	Well, I wouldn't agree with you that the situation is just as terrible as you say it is, that it can be better that it can be better and this House of Commons will be familiar with our legal obligation that we have on the yearly state of defense preparedness. We hope that this report will be on your benches as soon as possible by the end of February, so I think we are all aware of the efforts that both the armed forces and the total government of the Republic of Croatia are making in order for the situation you call bad to be corrected. As far as the apartments are concerned here, I have to tell you that some members have not received apartments, but I also have to tell you the fact that these days we have a problem with filling 13 apartments that have been built together with some of the ministries in Slunj where we simply don't have interested members of the Armed Forces to fill them. It's about 23 apartments that were built on our land where the Ministry of Defence should be inhabitable these days and on the staff board, the minister approved 10 to fill in because there is a need, but unfortunately 13 of us remain unfulfilled. Therefore, on the one hand, in some cities such as Split, there is an extremely great need, and on the other hand, where our troops have moved and where they were thought to contribute to development in the Republic of Croatia, unfortunately we also have the situation that we are unable to fill the apartments. All of this needs to be addressed in the future when negotiating and negotiating where our deployment of armed forces is, but I don't think the overall situation can be called an extremely bad situation. It can be serious in the equipment part here to rule out the human factor because our members are extremely trained and trained and also motivated. And that we'll make sure that this budget that you've also heard what the amount means is not a reduced budget this year that we'll try to get the maximum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23804	Thank you very much. Replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23805	So 13 apartments in Slunje dead capital. We talked about the reconstruction and modernisation of helicopters, and the planes remain unknown in our public. Have we decided to stay on these two MiGs that we have or will go into the restoration of the Air Force with us again now we agree with America this agreement or we sign it any way you want to go to F4 or I don't know what, on the German Tornado, the Gripen didn't say anything about it. But what I am particularly invited to do for the replica is a fighting armored vehicle clearly concerns Patrija in Slavonski Brod, which is produced. And how well is it known to our public and to me personally that various contracts were related to Patrius, and even you now say that a 30mm cannon for Patri. So Patria is agreed to imagine a combat armored vehicle without combat action. So all we've got is a vehicle with no gun, no machine guns, whatever you want. So what kind of contract was it in which it was agreed with Finnish Patricia to produce a vehicle, combatively, it's called combat, and there's nothing to shoot with. It's very interesting, and it would be very commendable if someone would look into that contract a little bit. Secondly, what I wanted to say was the same thing as "Djuro Djakovic" so Slavonski Brod, and citizens and workers are interested, what about our brain invention, thin Degman. Now that you're here, I'm taking the opportunity to ask you what's wrong with our tank, our domestic production, our local minds, so the Degman tank.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23806	Replica reply, Deputy Minister Mrs. Tafra.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23807	I don't think you understand me, so the Department of Defense has made a decision about what's going on with the Air Force. The decision was made to... to remount the MiG 21st and add up to the full size of the squadron. So those who won't be able to remount will be purchased and the others will be remounted. Therefore, it is not a long-term solution, but at this point it is a solution to retain the ability in Croatian aviation. Unfortunately for the rest of the country, there was no way to find funds for the purchase of new fighter aircraft in the Croatian budget at this time. That's one thing. Furthermore, as far as Djura Djakovica is concerned, if anyone has any doubt that the contracts that are concluded, it must be reported where the place is. The contracts were concluded with Djur Djakovic only for the purpose of making a fighting armored vehicle, and special tenders went for the purchase of armed systems. Therefore, it is not a contract that is in the package, nor did Patria deliver in the armed station package. You're contracted in particular 12-7 so the battle stations 12-7 are agreed, I'm just saying that next year he's going to make a deal, so top 30 mm for 8 combat vehicles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23808	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote at noon.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23809	Final draft law confirming the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States on the acquisition and exchange of services, emergency procedure, first and second reading, CZ No. 200, the debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you. I find that, unanimously with 116 votes, the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the United States on the acquisition and exchange of services in the text was adopted as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23810	We move to - Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime, Second Reading, PZ No. 176 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply in accordance with Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice, and you received reports at the session. Introductoryly on behalf of the promoter Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković Kunšt, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23811	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the council. We propose amendments and additions to the USKOK Act which are the result of the need to bring the law in line with the amendments to the KZ. In order to ensure proper application and this law, it is necessary to make certain amendments that we propose. It concerns Article 21 because we have listed in Article 21 the offences in which the USOKK performs the affairs of a state lawyer and these are offences in paragraph 1 relating to the old KZ, so to speak, and in paragraph 2 of the new KZ because they will be treated according to certain criminal acts from which the law in accordance with the rules on the application of the relevant law. We've also done some termological harmonisations. In the previous regulation of criminal law, we had the notion of a criminal organisation, and now we have replaced it with a criminal association and we use both expressions depending on which group of crimes from the previous KZ or from the new KZ. We also consider a significant retention of the possibility of a settlement instrument which, in a certain sense, was threatened by the fact that the new CAP no longer knows the legal remedy for the emergency mitigation of penalties. We have now made it possible, in a proposal to amend Article 37, that the chief state attorney, on the proposal of the Director of USKOK, would suggest that the person already legally convicted as a member of a criminal organisation or criminal association be questioned as a witness if her testimony is important for the detection or proof of criminal offences committed within the framework of a criminal organisation or for the prevention of such crimes. In that case, an exceptional legal remedy will be proposed in the context of the renewal of the procedure or a proposal for parole or layoff off the deadlines. Therefore, the aim of this measure is to precisely detect criminal offences that appear within criminal organisations or criminal associations to provide a settlement instrument and in circumstances in which we no longer have a request for exceptional mitigation of penalties. What is the change from the first reading text is the extension of the catalogue of new crimes from the new KZ. In fact, we have added here and a criminal act that we consider necessary for the detection and pursuit of the affairs of the state's attorney's office is being handled by USKOK. It shall be a criminal offence for the bribery of the representatives referred to in Article 339. Penalty law. So, in this case, the BOOK will act, or it will be our intention and aim to prevent corrupt activities. Here's the short one.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23812	Thank you very much. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. It's the club representatives' turn. Croatian Labourists – party of work, colleague Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23813	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. These amendments and additions to the USKOK Act are of a technical nature. These topics, in essence, we talked about the metrics of things when we talked about the Penal Code. The intention of this law is to comply with the new Penal Code, something in terms of content and clarification of certain procedures. But what it does is it does. Maybe that's what the public needs to do again. People are chasing the BOOK and the State's Attorney's Office. Of course it's not always the same. These amendments and additions to the law define in detail the powers of the USKOK. Simply put, BUSKOK is there to catch large, dangerous and organized criminals. The State's Attorney's Office is dealing with let's say I won't say less dangerous, but less complex works. The jump in practice catches big criminals, doing it successfully. Especially when, when they got the instrumentation, they got the tools to do it. The only condition for that capture is that these large criminals are not close to the current government. If they're close, maybe they're gone. So far, we have not seen an example of the USCOD, including the State's Attorney's Office, taking action against someone who has not previously been politically executed. Politically dead people are really under the influence of the law. I'm not saying that they're not guilty, especially those who have already been convicted by power, power and whatever. But the fact is that these are all people who have fallen out of the meaning of the policy stream, from the current and influential policy. But I expect, I hope that this will change and that both the state's attorney and USKOK chief will soon be driving around Zagreb in an armored vehicle, not a patrician, but a stalled vehicle, let's say, what is a normal thing around the world. So when they catch people like that, they have to protect themselves. I can't go to Charlie's for coffee. Expansion, powers are also extended to a new criminal act by bribing parliamentary deputies. It's a really dangerous crime and it's the turn of law. I've never heard of anything like this before, but maybe it's because we're all here, so there's still a bribe who can't get caught. I'm just wondering what a parliamentary representative should do to bribe him. To be honest, I can't think of such an act that would work out from here today in a council like this to work out how someone would bribe me for it. I can't think, maybe I'm wrong, maybe I don't see well, maybe I don't see everything, so correct me if you come up with such an act. I don't see him. But, well, I can imagine the situation that the Parliament functions differently not on the partocratic logic, not on the orders of the party, party or whatever it is called, but on its own conscience. Well, then the situation is a little different. And maybe it's good and fair to be inside just for such a situation. The criminal organisation is renamed, not renamed remains and criminal organization inside, but wherever the criminal organisation stands so far, the term criminal association is placed as set out in the Penal Code. Why not the association? It's both funny, actually. Namely, a criminal organization, a criminal association that, let's say, has no formal form of organisation of presidents, vice presidents, executive board, etc. But there's only a bunch of criminals gathered together to commit a crime is a fact that we see daily in the media and we hear about them, and we know more or less about them. What's not inside is criminal activity, although they exist yesterday, the day before yesterday when we legalized them in the General Tax Law. An activity that has no trace in your business books, in your account that you bought the property and you will pay the tax on. And the tax office will tax you on that property that you bought from some activity that is not visible from your entire personal or business business. I think it's criminal activity, at the very least, criminally so much that it's a tax evasion. If nothing else black happened, it must have happened. However, we have sorted this criminal activity into the IRS, we charge taxes and legalize such a business. Well, I guess that's good. I guess that's a good thing when this Parliament has accepted it. Yeah, criminal activity, it's not really criminal if you don't get caught. Then it is an APP system, if it passes, passes and is legalized by the act of paying taxes. Otherwise, of course, you'll find yourself in this law. Article 8 refers to a convict from another procedure called by the State Attorney, or BIAK, for a witness in an ongoing procedure and guarantees him a reduction in his sentence. Okay, the question of the credibility of such a witness is raised. How credible a witness who comes from prison at the age of 10 is to testify to get 5 years or come out on parole is a question. A man will do anything for those five years of freedom, including a lie of course. So the question is how credible such a witness is. But I'm more puzzled by the provision of Article 12 which speaks of the revision, the mandatory revision of the sentence. So, if the court accepts this witness as a credible witness, this law practically guarantees him a reduction in his sentence. The renewal of the procedure, therefore by complete renewal in this case, is prejudicial, the process will be renewed, and God knows how it will end. There may not be a reduction if we do not influence the court in this way, or perhaps that judicial council that handles this other procedure will do something to reduce the sentence. I don't quite get it. I'd like to be explained, I'm not a legal expert, I may be wrong somewhere, but it seems illogical to call someone a witness of a convict to guarantee him a reduction in his sentence. I don't know how it can be guaranteed. He can be guaranteed a renewal, I don't know if he's allowed to, can guarantee a reduction in his sentence. Article 16 shall also state, inter alia, the process of confiscation of the property benefit obtained by a criminal offence. Of course, that property benefit is taken away if a man gets caught with his hand in a jam, then he can't own that jam, right, that jam is taken away from him. I'm still and again concerned about what happens if a man doesn't grab his hand in a jam, but this jam jar is found in his pan, and he can't prove how he got to it. What happens to the property that a man has come to and cannot explain its origin? She's taxing herself, and she's actually this same property just about the person we didn't catch while he was doing the crime. This shows how the laws of the domain of the Penal Code and tax laws are actually closely linked. You can't separate those situations. All in all this law is a technical law and gives new, good tools to the State's Attorney's Office, i.e. USKOK, and should be accepted. Croatian Labourists will vote for him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23814	Thank you. Replica, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23815	Dear fellow Vuljanic, you said, in fact, you have accurately detected the powers of the USKOK, you said that USKOK catches large criminals, unless they are located near the government. Most of the time, political dead people have been caught up with each other. They were much easier prey. However, the latest news we have seen these days that USCOD has also begun to clean its ranks that those who have protected not political dead people but large fish that are at the top of the government or were at the top of the government can be said on the basis of these news that it is still moving for the better. He's moving because these officers who were arrested were protecting large fish who had ten-and-a-half criminal charges. It means that it has begun to be done seriously, which is commendable. I agree that under the increase there should also be parliamentary representatives and you asked your colleague Vuljanic what parliamentary representatives could do and who would offer them anything. I fully agree with you, but I think that USKOK predicts a better future for us Assembly deputies that we will no longer depend on the government, but there will be power in the Parliament. That's what SCOCK says under this law. We will likely have power in the future, not only will the government, the Parliament will not answer to the government, but the government will answer to the Parliament as it says in the Constitution. So this is a nice prediction.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23816	Replication response, Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23817	Thank you. My colleague Vuksic, I sincerely hope you're right, in both of these things. So, also in the fact that USCOD now has a tool and has a different political climate will not skip the big fish that are now in power and in this that bribing a parliamentary representative will become a real crime because the government will be here, not across the road alone, and because it will answer to this authority across the road. When that happens, then that crime will really make sense. Let's hope that the USKOK here predominates that the Constitution in this country will respect what has not been the case so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23818	And the replica Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23819	Your Honor, Madam President. My colleague Vuljanić, you know what I'd like to do here is be a replica, but actually a surprise. I understand that you Labourists now want to be some kind of revolutionaries, so play that role if it goes well because the SDP has become capitalist which I know whose party, so to speak, but don't be revolutionaries from '46 and hang your cult without a court. I listened to you yesterday, and I silenced you all, but I particularly resent you for being a man of age and so on. You want the IRS to take someone's property, I'm for the ruling majority they're proposing. The tax administration must pay the tax, the IRS cannot issue an act to confiscate property, so the court of counterpart Vuljanic must. If that's not the case, then we're lawless, reformed, zero states. I can't understand that a persistent demagogue politician's attitude is coming out of your head that someone in this country can take someone without a court. So when a USKOK starts following someone must be given a court order by a colleague Vuljanic, USKOK can illegally exist one process or period where something like this can be done under the table, but the court must approve your follow-up and USKOK. How can you ask a tax officer to adopt a regulation on taking away some property from you? I can't be surprised. It's for this Parliament or it's for some pub or what you said about talking at Charlie's cafe.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23820	Reply to the replica Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23821	Thank you. I'm sorry you weren't here when we talked about the IRS we proposed. Of course the clerk can't take the property. Well, that's crazy, and nobody's ever suggested it here or anywhere else. Our proposal was to establish that there was no source of that property, to initiate a lawsuit and take that property. Of course it can't be done by the tax office, of course that according to the Constitution, the law and the common sense must be done by the court. But as far as the revolution is concerned, none of us are in favor of the revolution. If we were in the revolution right now, we'd be on the road, and we'd be able to raise 100,000 people, they'd be easily collected because they'd have a reason to collect them. But we don't, we work here, because we think the revolution is bad. When the sea stirs to the surface, the garbage comes out, and that is why we are here to settle matters in a parliamentary and peaceful manner as it says in the Croatian Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23822	It is the SDP club and Vesna Fabiančić Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23823	Dear Madam Vice President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime is before us the third revision of the USKOK Act. The 2009 Law was first revised in 2010 and secondly in 2011. It is primarily in order to meet the criteria for the closure of Chapter 23-Justice and Fundamental Rights. Since the founding of 2001, the office has been established with the aim of gaining more effective and effective opposition to corruption and organised crime as a specialised body within the State's Attorney's Office and gaining increasing power over all these years. In 2000, we remember when the Croatian Parliament passed the Law on Confirmation of the Criminal Law Convention on Corruption signed by the Ambassador and Permanent Representative of the Republic of Croatia to the Council of Europe in Strasbourg in 1999. It is then stressed that corruption is a threat to the rule of law, democracy and human rights to undermine the principles of good administration, justice and social justice, destroying competition, making economic development more difficult and putting the stability of democratic institutions and the moral foundations of society at risk, and all in the belief that the fight against corruption can be effective and only through strengthened rapid and effective international co-operation on crime. We also remember in 2003 when the Croatian Parliament adopted the Law on Confirming the Civil Law Convention on Corruption, which was signed in Strasbourg in 2001, which highlights the financial consequences that corruption has for individuals, companies and states, as well as for international institutions, which believe it is important for civil rights to contribute to the fight against corruption. In the sense of this Convention, corruption means the demand, supply, giving or receiving of direct or indirect bribes or any benefit that interferes with the proper execution of any duties or behaviour required of the recipient of the bribe, the undue benefit or the possibility of obtaining such benefit. Corruption with less resistance to organised crime weakens morale in political decision-making, blocks public administration, makes the judiciary ineffective, violates fundamental social values and threatens the rule of law. And, of course, because of everything that I have put forward, it was not only important to establish USKOK but also to get more and more powers from the establishment of 2001 to the adoption of the office law in 2009 and to today's third revision of this office law. All of this resulted in the success of an office in organised crime which is very high, respecting the fact that the most complex objects were made exclusively in the USKOK as opposed to the less complex cases which were made in other state attorneys. These third amendments to the law in the first order of course and as we have heard from the motions are a alignment with the new KZ which enters into force on 1 January 2013. It is, of course, necessary to bring it in line with termologically because KZ, which will soon enter into force, uses different terms for individual measures and offences. Similarly, due to the entry into force of the new KZ, it is necessary to have two catalogues in this law, all due to the principle of the application of the mild law, i.e. because of the fact that in certain cases the old KZ will apply. And of course, this third revision, with the above mentioned above, continues to strengthen the office by amending exactly Article 37, regardless of the content of this article is in line with the new CAP. Therefore, instead of the request so far for the extraordinary mitigation of penalties, a request will be submitted for the renewal of the proceedings in order to amend and rule of law as regards the decision on penalties. The new CAP, which no longer knows the extraordinary legal remedy, would be left without a really important instrument, important for detecting and proving the crimes committed within the framework of a criminal organisation or the perpetrator of those crimes, i.e. to detect and prevent criminal offences by members of a criminal organisation. And because of all this above-mentioned SDP club will support these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23824	Thank you very much. Followed by the HDZ Club and colleague Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23825	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support the adoption of this law, and we supported it in our first reading. Of course, we have now heard from a colleague on behalf of the SDP club how dangerous corruption is for society, how important all the measures that contribute as much as possible and as much as possible to curb it. Of course, one of these measures is certainly the creation of a special office within the framework of the state's attorney's office dealing with the fight against corruption and organised crime. Not only was the law passed, of course it was the first step, but over a number of years since the first BUSKOK Law was passed throughout all those years, the USKOK has been materially and humanely empowered, just as the parallel and spread catalogue of the crimes in which the USKOK acts. Here we are discussing amending and supplementing the law which is mostly technical or nomotechnical in nature, so this catalogue of criminal acts in which USKOK acts and acts is actually the soul of this law given the entry into force of 1.1.2013 of the new KZ. In view of the application of a law which was worth the criminis temporas unless it is more favourable for the defendants, it is necessary to enter into the catalogue the numbering of the now applicable law and the law which will be in force since 1.1.2013. By reading this law, many people find this catalogue of crimes to be very wide and too large and that the BOOK does not actually have enough capacity or that it will not be able to deal with large-scale crime and large-scale corruption cases because it will be buried and the less so to say, valuablely smaller but socially equally dangerously, I would say. I must say that, therefore, there is an article 22 that says that on the proposal of the Director, the Chief State Attorney may decide that in cases of abuse of office and authority, because there are a lot of criminal charges in less complex cases, that this is to be left to municipal state attorneys. This, in practice, the state's attorney's office and thus solves this problem in some ways. As far as criminal catalogues are concerned, it remains mostly the same except for the numerative arrangement. This is what the promoter noted in his first reading, in his first proposal he dropped a new criminal act from the new KZ, which is a crime of bribery of MPs. I think it's also his turn to be in this USKOK Act because it's a crime of taking and giving bribes, so if it's a different and corrupt and criminal act, if the others are here in this catalogue, it's got to be this too. Of course, we MPs question how this could be bribed, etc., but the crime is who is the representative of the Croatian Parliament or of the European Parliament, as well as the council of council members of the local self-government or the assembly of the county, who is demanding or receiving bribes in order to vote in a certain way, will be punished by a prison of 6 months to 5 years, and the same penalty will be punished by one who gives or offers a bribe for voting in a certain way. I don't think in real life that these situations are unimaginable and should certainly be covered by the Penal Code. This is the end of this Penal Code we have also passed and that it should be within this jump catalogue. It is also good that this USKOK Act has been seen and that the new Penal Code of Criminal Procedure has actually left the USKOK without one important instrument or tool to detect the most serious criminal offences of organised crime for the reason that the new Criminal Procedure Act has been released or there are no more institutions of extraordinary legal medicine, the extraordinary mitigation of penalties. Therefore, it could not have been a member of such a criminal organisation or association already convicted of a criminal offence, nor could it have been offered in any way to ease the sentence if it testified in a way that it contributed significantly to the detection of criminal offences and perpetrators in the event of organised crime. This amendment to Article 37 has now been resolved in a way that the main state attorney may propose a renewal of proceedings for the purpose of amending a judgment of power over a judgment on punishment. I'd warn an old man here that, therefore, nomotechnical unification in this but also in other laws. In fact, let us also take up the law as legislators, as well as the Government as a legislator, a unique position on whether, in certain laws, we will refer to other laws to precisely numbered legal articles, which then demonstrates the need if that other law changes the change and all related laws, or only to a special law or to that law. Here in this case we have an invitation in the very text of the law to a specific article of the Criminal Procedure Act, and I think that’s what the Proposer stated in an explanation. It seems to me that in the existing Criminal Procedure Act, in the reasons for the renewal of the case, this case does not stand, so in that sense I should also feel that the Criminal Procedure Act should be amended if I do not take something wrong. But it seems to me so and it will be necessary to do so. In any case, we support that these changes and additions correct what happened, here's what happened. So, that USKOK was knocked out of hand by this one good tool for detecting the most serious crimes. It is also possible, therefore, that the attorney general of the state should apply instead, therefore as an exceptional legal remedy to request the renewal of the criminal proceedings in order to reduce the sentence, that the competent court may also submit a proposal for parole beyond the deadlines for the repetitive of the proposal prescribed by the special law. So either an amendment to a powerful verdict that would reduce the sentence or demand parole beyond those deadlines prescribed by a special law. In our first reading on behalf of the HDZ Club, we warned of a single phenomenon. Therefore, here is Article 5 of the current amendments, but otherwise Article 30 of the Basic USKOK Act speaks of the disclosure of official secrecy, and that Article 30 states that the bodies participating in the procedure for acts referred to in Article 21 are obliged to act urgently and no one shall, without the approval of the Director, publish data on criminal prosecution in those cases, etc. etc. We have a certain law, we have a certain criminal code, we have a certain law on criminal proceedings. But we are persistently witnessing that every day and before anything is published on the USKOK pages, which would be allowed to be seen by the public in view of the secrecy of the investigation and before the investigative procedure appears on the cover. In order for the criminal proceedings to be as effective as possible, in order to really successfully combat organised crime and corruption, indeed, here and the Ministry of Justice as the proposer of all these laws in this area should indeed do something to review all the rules and propose how and how or incentivise the application of existing rules in various laws, hence existing provisions in various laws or to propose something new that we would not see daily in practice data that we should not, and should not be seen precisely for the purpose of protecting the effectiveness of these criminal proceedings. But also that those who have come to them in any way must not go any further public, that these existing provisions are effectively and implemented. Here, and, of course, as I said, we will support the adoption of this law. It will enter into force on 1.1.2013, so parallel to the new Penal Code. And here's another one, perhaps, just a dilemma about the Code of Criminal Procedure, whether this case is intended as a reason for the renewal of proceedings and whether in that sense the law on criminal proceedings will be amended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23826	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club Josip Salapic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23827	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. In front of us is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime. We've already discussed this law in this House. Following the 2009 law under the revised Law 2010, this is the solution to the final draft law that gives USKOK all those strong instruments for the basic exercise of the activities of USKOK, which is therefore the persecution of perpetrators of corruption and organised crime. In itself, as such a club of HDSSB, this law supports how we supported it in our first reading. What is important to say, those technical instruments that this law adopts in its finality is the harmonisation primarily of the law with the Penal Code, which will enter into force on 1 January 2013. These technical changes only lead to the possibility of quality implementation of this law ahead of us. The introduction of a catalogue of criminal offences under the new Penal Code which will take effect in one month and the retention of existing catalogues of criminal offences from the now applicable law which will cease to apply at the beginning of the year is above all that, for the perpetrators of criminal offences, it is always applicable in criminal law and criminal law to the law which is milder for the perpetrator, so it was necessary to distinguish these catalogues of criminal offences into two catalogues that will continue to be applied. As far as this important instrument is concerned, and this is the instrument of the settlement that the BIAK has had logically so far, that if the instrument was necessary for the perpetrators, to detect the serious crimes of the perpetrators of serious corruptive crimes and the crimes of organised crime, that, in a certain way, the instrument should be kept in the USKOK so that if there is no longer a new instrument of settlement, this is a request for the renewal of the procedure which will ultimately lead to the same solution, which is that it will mitigate the punishment of the perpetrator who was already legally condemned by his testimony in the renewed criminal proceedings leading to new knowledge that will give some new facts and prevent or mitigate the serious damages that would result from the criminal offence. What is a little bit important, and perhaps very important, to emphasize at this point that USKOK has really received powerful instruments in its hands from 2009 to today. And what is particularly worrying is that, in some cases, it comes to the fact that, although everything is exactly legal and we have a lot of quality criminal laws, given that this law was also one of the conditions for Chapter 23. – The Court of Justice for the Accession of Croatia of the EU, it is important to say that there are public cases of what Mrs Lovrin said about Article 30 for the leak of information from the jurisdiction of the USKOK and the State Attorney's Office in the media. It is something that the legislator and we here in the Croatian Parliament should strongly prevent. So far, we have warned the public attorney's reports of the past year and 2010 about this problem. This is not only a matter of warning and giving the problem of knowledge, but it is a problem that can be very dangerous, and most of all dangerous for the case itself and for the judiciary itself and for the fair trial in the proceedings before Croatian courts. If the media, newspapers and television publishes certain information that is in the process of investigative or investigative actions in USKOK cases, there is a danger that the court may make a decision before it is brought by a court which is established by our Constitution and by law as a court which should be independent in the trial of the perpetrators of any act, and in particular by these crimes which are very dangerous to the integrity and Croatian state, but also by the Croatian judiciary. It is one big problem that is not only a problem that we here have to repeat in the Croatian Parliament but for such perpetrators of criminal acts should also be provided for more severe penalties than are provided for in this bill. Because it is really a question of the very system of Croatian justice and the very system of independence of the Croatian judiciary but also what is most important is that no one in our country, nor by our laws, can be punished before a judicial verdict is passed. This is a very important issue and it is an instrument which is a strong instrument in the hands of the BIAK but an instrument that should certainly be used in accordance with the laws, primarily with the Constitution and with all the accompanying laws that we and as our commitment to the EU have brought into this multi-annual negotiation and multi-annual harmonisation of our laws with the laws of the EU countries. As far as the other instruments are concerned, we've already said this is a technical law, and we need to accept him as such. I'd like to point out one more thing, and as for the instruments in the hands of the USKOK, we had an interesting case yesterday on the Board of Shows and Appeals, and the case of how an error could occur in steps, and let's say by quotes in "good intentions". There was one case where the USKOK case was involved in the implementation of measures in accordance with the law of tracking the telephone number in one case in 3 to 4 persons was included in the measures, the fourth person was involved only by the use of the same number by the fourth person. It happened, therefore, that all three persons who were followed for more than three months were removed from the follow-up of USKOK, and the person who had no order to trace its phone number came under the indictment of USKOK. The question now arises about the use of evidence for such a person because the person in this case that we discussed unauthorizedly listened to and recorded in the procedure so that at the end of the order the persons who were really covered were removed from the blame, and the person who had no connection with the order that was in accordance with the law came under the condemnation of USKOK. In the absence of a measure of things, we have come to the realization that even in these instruments that USKOK benefits from in its activity, there is an error in the steps because the question is whether the evidence that has been evidence since the time the case began to work is legal for the person who is not covered by the consent of approval, we know who should be granted the monitoring approval and the instruments that exist, indeed, is evidence that can be used in the case and whether such evidence can fall in a case that can come before the BOOK. It is something that is very dangerous, very important and in such "small" cases there can also be a breach of powers and at the end of the non-fulfilment of the real role of USKOK and the law that is before us if it really is not done by what we are doing here in the Croatian Parliament. Thus, this law should be supported in any case but should continue to strengthen these instruments in the USKOK and give a little and precise and slightly accurate provisions that are in any case made known to our citizens that the USKOK and the State's Attorney's Office are in accordance with the law and that people who have received the trust of both the State's Attorney General and the Director-General of the USKOK and all those who are employees of the State's Attorney's Office are indeed carrying out their work knowingly, professionally and in accordance with the law. If all this system does not work as it should, then our perfect laws that are in line with EU laws mean nothing, because ultimately these cases can fall to Croatian courts, so that the ultimate objective of this law is to condemn the perpetrators of the most serious crimes of corruption and organised crime can be questioned that such persons are indeed not judged in such a procedure as should the actual act be committed. We support this law, we support it in the first reading, and we believe it will be as it really says in these provisions of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23828	Thank you. Replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23829	Dear fellow Salapic, you spoke in a settlement instrument that is certainly dubious, penitent, guilty, co-founders, we certainly called them, certainly they were treated often have a much better status than whistles which are rarely ignored by the court, and companies, state bodies and society treats them as untrustworthy people as some kind of snitches. With us whistlers still haven't gotten that status as will the people who settle with the court. Criminals seem more socially acceptable, how they believe it's always a question. Let's just say all those guys around Sanader are trying to get out of guilt by testifying against their boss with whom they were either petting money or holding a ladder. It is absolutely certain that this law offers good solutions, but there are still doubts.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23830	The answer to the replica Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23831	I fully agree with you on what you said about whistles, and regarding these perpetrators of crime, I advocate that no one can be released of the crime if it is indeed committed. In this case, easing punishment does not mean getting rid of guilt, does not mean that someone will be amnested only by giving information to catch greater perpetrators of criminal offences, simply the Penal Code had to have a solution in order to possibly lead to such knowledge and to mitigate the major damages that could have been caused by a criminal offence. And I fully agree with you that these are laws that we can lay the foundation of new criminal legislation in the Republic of Croatia, so far we have had cases where and in more difficult ways the Penal Code has been violated. These are our laws of the principle of Chapter 23 and I hope and believe as you do that both these and whistlers and all those who will contribute to the discovery of the perpetrators of criminal acts will be treated appropriately because they cannot be any snitches of any kind of people who do not know what they will do with themselves. These are people who have helped the Croatian judiciary and thus also the Croatian state to discover the perpetrators of criminal offences and our future amendments and additions to criminal laws should be placed in criminal law and under certain protection because it is really embarrassing that someone gets hurt if they do not discover something that can contribute to the discovery of the perpetrator of criminal offences.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23832	And Drazen Djurovic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23833	Thank you. Mr. Salapic, this example that you have cited, but the fact is that monitoring these listening phone conversations is that no one on the phone can talk to themselves, so there is always some companion in the tracking that you want to talk to. Therefore, the speaker is always listening, of course, even though he is not the primary object of the monitoring and that is, unfortunately, the side effect. And now in this case I still think that maybe... the answer could be to define the numbers of the tracking so regardless of what these numbers are brought in or what side they're talking about. And when you were talking about public influence and information leaks, so it is against the law, but on the other hand, I don't know if you'll agree that perhaps, unfortunately, most of the major affairs that have been happening in the Republic of Croatia not only over the past 20 years but also unfortunately, the public was first exposed to it, and after that, the judicial institutions and the authorities of the programme were first written by journalists about what happened and about some affair, and then the Croatian institutions were very often and under the pressure of the public and the affair opened, which is not really the happiest environment and represents the real state of things as it was in the Republic of Croatia, but I think what it looks like they're going to stay for some time now. That is why I would personally never agree to the excessive pressing on particularly against journalists or the media or on the fact that certain things may be spoken of but the simple state of Croatian society is so that it must not be allowed to close in such a way as it may be in some regulated European countries today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23834	Reply to the replica Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23835	I agree with you, colleague Djurovic. I mentioned the case on purpose because it is obviously not protecting anyone in the process or standing on any side about the unauthorized use of instruments that are in the hands of the USKOK and the State's Attorney's Office. In our country we should all be equal and it is amazing that some of the cases that some of the proceedings come to the media and to the press before it is legal and that the law provides that, before consent is given, the decisions of the court that can be monitored, why they can be monitored, that some people have data outside the judiciary and even in politics, in the media that happens in certain cases. So we must be aware that our fight is not only against corruption and organised crime but we must be aware that in this country there is a bar intelligence underground that in certain cases can be fully... the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, and we have seen in the past months, days that some such cases appear where the full system of justice is shaken, where much is not done, where it can be realized that something is a phenomenon but in a few such cases happened today. I believe that services that have in their hands such strong instruments that directly touch human rights guaranteed by the Constitution and the laws should do their job and that our fight by entering Croatia into the European Union except for the adoption of quality laws and the resolution in the system of those people who do their job in an unprofessional way and who, by not blaming the media or journalists, will publish what they get, and that is their job, blaming those who have dared to deliver data to the media in such a way. Well, we've seen here in the last few days that several people from the closest environment of the attorney general ended up in custody. It is only proof that there is a problem in these systems, that we, not only by the laws but also by concrete moves, should be resolved because it should be the interest of all of us, of citizens and of our own country.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23836	We're moving on to an individual debate. First in line Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23837	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In support of this Proposal for a Law amending the USKOK Act, I would like to start by noting that there are no technical amendments to this proposal, and as far as KZ is concerned, the USKOK Act cannot be tempered by the fact that these amendments are also given new and stronger instruments in the battle of monsters that have been ruled over by Croatia. In fact, I would like to point out immediately that this is all happening before our courts and when many who were then silent say triumphantly that it was possible to happen. The judgments that fall or are brought before our courts are not a national holiday, but indeed a warning to worry, each and every one of us here as it was possible to happen. What we were doing, how nobody saw anything, how he felt. Some of us talked, actually many of us talked, only some of the media could publish it. Therefore, such a model of conduct that was in Croatia whose way is now being demonstrated in front of our courts, and we should have disarmed it here, tells us that the matter was essentially not so complicated, mastering the judiciary, putting a boot over the judiciary and mastering the media. When it comes to the expansion of catalogues or all of those crimes that should be in the jurisdiction of the BUSKOK, and when we are actually supplementing that catalogue, then we need to essentially, we need to be clear that it is difficult to imagine any criminal act that cannot be linked to corruption. And it should be very quick to consider the situation of giving authority to one general norm that any crime associated with corruption, crime, criminal organisation, no matter what crime it is, belongs to the jurisdiction of the USKOK, because that is the only way we will be able to do any crime that... at first glance doesn't seem to have been committed precisely in terms of corruption and organised crime, so when things start to be revealed then we see how capillaryly this whole situation penetrates and as far as these are concerned. It should certainly be considered until the second reading, there is time, and this is our daily need, and it is about this particular topic that we are discussing, that we, by modelling Italian anti-mafian laws, introduce a criminal act of spreading or creating a climate of fear and impunity. Because when we take a closer look at those who have done so and created an octopus that has encased all of Croatia, we see that they have not signed anything, very rarely, that they have not personally appeared but have sent their emissaries and that everyone knows what this is about. So our bodies were weird, there was no evidence, no signatures, no personal involvement in where the penalties were, where there was then criminal responsibility, or where the evidence was. I think we should take a look at these Italian anti-mafia laws and see how it's incriminating, that's how it's been studied, that it's not supposed to be a personal perpetrator, that it doesn't have to appear personally anywhere, but that with its strength, its position and its network that it can act in that way, and that kind of action is essentially the most dangerous thing to do. It is certainly necessary to welcome ways to keep up with witnesses, since they are often not witnesses, direct witnesses, eyewitnesses, or witnesses. It can only be those who took part in all this. An ordinary citizen can only see from afar what hit him, carrying it all on his back. But direct witnesses can only be those involved. Therefore, and all that was revealed was possible only in such a way as to amend the Code of Criminal Procedure, and here we are now amending the Law on the Office for the Prevention of Corruption and Organized Crime, so that even those judgments can be changed at the request of a state attorney if such a convicted person can serve as a witness. And that's why often when the media asks the question, that's why they're penitent, where they come from such special favors. It is necessary to draw attention again and again, that, if the Code of Criminal Procedure had not changed, all these proceedings would not have taken place in front of our judiciary and would not have been possible to initiate them. Of course that would create an additional apathy in our people. So, by welcoming this proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Anti-Corruption and Organized Crime Office, I would like to look again at and highlight this addition that applies to Parliament, to us as MPs. Many have said that there is no way to imagine that one situation at all. Perhaps still until the Parliament has no such meaning, but we are going in this direction, so that the vote of parliamentary deputies is more gained in importance, not only with us but also in many parliaments because of the spread of democracy. The law on lobbying should be adopted as soon as possible, to see how far the boundaries of the allowed lobbying go, and when the situation becomes faceless corruption. After all, we are all witnesses of both well-intentioned and unintentioned suggestions. We often get suggestions written. You should see, therefore, for amendments to the law, for amendments. It should indeed also tell the public that the coercion, not only to a judicial official, but to a state official, was therefore a minister or parliamentary representative also a difficult crime. And that, and from this pay phone, we should order from our Parliament that such pressures be dropped on the MPs. But the same is true of us as parliamentarians taking on such a single responsibility and that we will pass these amendments to the laws in which such pressures, or giving in to these pressures at all, are going to put on exactly the right footing of some stakeholders, and that is the result of the faceless corruption taking on responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23838	Thank you. Now we move on to five replicas. A colleague of Anna Lovrin's.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23839	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Anticevic, no one's reducing anything. And this is technical law, and if we say so, we're not reducing anything. It is technically because the catalogue of criminal offences remains the same only includes the numbering of the existing Penal Code, which is currently in force and which will enter into force on 1.1.2013. And what's been released from the new Penal Code, and this is the criminal act of bribing the MPs. So, nothing essential but we agree on that catalog so that it can be applied. And even this power to settle as coloquially put it is not any newspaper of this law. Therefore, even in the existing USKOK Act, there was the possibility of a law to request a state's attorney an extraordinary remedy, a request for an extraordinary mitigation of penalties. As the Criminal Procedure Act had to be abolished instead of the instrument, that tool was given to one another, which is in accordance with the current Criminal Procedure Act, and this is now the authority that the chief state attorney, with a request for an examination of witnesses who is already a accused member of the criminal association. Therefore, that the request and renewal of the proceedings in order to reduce the penalty. Therefore, we have no intention of reducing anything. In fact, we are pleased that this Law has been unambiguously aligned in a way that would be fully implemented in the spirit in which it has now been here since 2003 with the changes it has been in force.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23840	Reply to the replica Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23841	Here, very briefly. In addition to changing the numberings and in view of the eradication of that provision in the Criminal Procedure Act, there was a legal void, and this is one content norm to be given, so the authority of the attorney general to initiate such a single procedure, the possibility of easing penalties for convicts, and who still have what to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23842	Replica Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23843	So here you were, in the initial part of your presentation, talking about some of the phenomena that had happened before, and how they were simply not recognized, and nobody reacted to them in either the institutions or the Croatian Parliament, or anywhere. And the fact that political corruption is indeed the most difficult thing to prove, because there is very little evidence about it. But there are really sometimes some illogical decisions that require public talk and that perhaps more political decisions are made, that the more simple the public is sensitized for them, so those who have made them, that either give very clear answers as to why they are making them or that they become part of some investigations to determine why such decisions are being made. Now I have to, I'm going to point out one example of very fresh decisions. So, when the finance minister is late at night, he assures us that the state has no kuna for the recapitalisation of the Croatian Post Bank, while at the same time buying now takes place two small private banks and with state money. One was paid 50 million kuna and another additional investor was found for 50 million kuna, and another bank was bought with state money for 25 million kuna. These are two other small private banks that were recapitalised and purchased by state money. That's what the second minister does. And this first convinces us that the state does not have a kuna for the capitalisation of the country of truly important Croatian banks then raises reasonable doubt and perhaps we should talk more often about such doubts that they are simple or giving additional explanations or that in time they can see why such things happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23844	The answer to the replica? There isn't. colleague of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23845	Madam Vice President, actually, just a little help. counterpart Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic said we have until the final draft of the law. Namely, this is the final bill of law, yes, yes, the Penal Code, and then I apologize if I misunderstood. I thought you meant this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23846	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23847	Honored Vice President Replica, colleague Antičević, our dear, agile, shrewd parliamentary representative, represents us in Strasbourg to our pride and everything, but I do not understand why he plays amnesia here, forgetfulness not to say senility. To me, my colleague would like to make it clear to me, listen to my colleague, Anticevic, it was a conversion and privatisation. When? In the '90s and so, while one of them was at war, they privatized and it came quickly in 2000 and you came to power. Were you the minister or weren't you? I don't know, I think it is. If it isn't you, a colleague of yours. And why didn't you bring these USCOD laws and all that together, for four years you were in power? And what, in what sense, amnesia? So who's the one who passed this SCOCK Act and all these laws? Whose government did this bring? What government brought this? I'm asking you directly now, when the biggest thieving is, we all agree that it's accomplished in conversion and privatisation, no one can steal in a classic way how much the state has stolen during the conversion and privatisation. And the closest time was when the war ended, all together, could be done whatever you want. And why didn't you bring those laws then? You didn't move your finger, you didn't do anything! You answer, I ask you, what government has passed the USCOD Act and all this, given the tools to the state and the state's attorney's office? And what did he do? Money that you did it, didn't you? You didn't do anything at the time when you could and when it was on time, when there were no laws on non-deprecated procedures. And now I'm asking you to answer me. What do you call it senile?
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23848	Replication response, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23849	There's no senility, but there may be ignorance or malice. The USKOK Act was passed in 2000, and in 2001 it came into effect, and you, or your party, were very suspicious and the good part was against the USKOK Act. Then, the Penal Code was amended in 2003 against which you were against, which for the first time covered modern economic incrimination and extended limitation period to 30 years. Of course, you were against it. In addition, you also made a request for an assessment, you submitted a request for the assessment of constitutionality and the Constitutional Court for the first time declared the Penal Code by organic law and because there were no 77 votes abolishing the law. After that, since 2004, it has been a difficult struggle for economic incriminations to enter the Penal Code and it was only done before the end of your term under great pressure from the EU, and we have submitted the amendment four times during your term of office of 8 years, and one time the whole proposal of the Penal Code to get into law.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23850	And the last replica, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23851	Dear colleagues of Anticevic-Marinovic asked how all this could have happened, everything that happened, all that crime. And counterpart Marasovic spoke before about turned crime and was often spoken here in the Parliament about crime that took place eight years ago. There was simply no political will. And it should be acknowledged and marked that within two years, two and a half years, three years, that the processes have been launched, that it has begun to be punished, that it has begun to point to political corruption, which is certainly not enough. That all those who participated, who held the ladder, should be investigated. None of the politicians can be amnesty just because they are currently in position, which is in the Parliament, which is in the government or what is in Pantovack or anywhere. All politicians should be as equal as the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. They weren't so bad laws that it couldn't work. Even the president of the state said Mladen Bajic could not act because he would have ended up cooking too soon in a pot. So, people in positions, people in law enforcement, they're guilty. It's not just the bad laws. No instrument in Croatia seems to have had as much as was stolen. It was stolen in plain sight. The press warned, no one responded to those warnings. Journalists warned of HDZ black funds, wrote for years, no one reacted for years. So the guilt exists on this body, this High House, exists in the Police Department, in the DORH of all those who needed to react, and of course journalists have their own deep throats, that journalists didn't steal those documents that began to expose these crimes, but they got from some people who were also secret whistlers who gave, they probably gave to get rid of their competitions. There's been a lot of plantings. However, all this should continue to support all efforts to eradicate political crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23852	Thank you. Reply to the replica Ingrid Antičević Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23853	Well, I can almost agree with you on everything. You started your replica with no political will. I could only add, and how it will be when just those who should have the will to enforce such laws have used all their power either directly or indirectly by mastering institutions that laws are not implemented, or that they themselves are not processed. Let's think of a great friend of this who is now illegally condemned by Berlusconi, so who even passed the law to stop proceedings against him. So as far as it went, and we saw a great friendship as it ended, and I knew by then if there was a little justice that those three and the one in France would see what would happen to Sarkozy and Berlusconi and this little Berlusconi we had in Croatia if there was a P of justice that would end that way.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23854	And last in an individual debate, colleague of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23855	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister. Well, here we are at the end of the debate, and I don't think that in these discussions we would spend so much time on what it was more than often then we would fall into the traps of infertile debates, rather than talk about what it is today and talk about whether there is political will today or if you want an even better agreement on being ruthless in the fight against corruption and crime. And that's what we need to do at the Croatian Assembly. Of course I can support these amendments and supplement the law. Madam Deputys, here is a reminder that the law has entered into force which we are now changing on 1 July 2009 so we have changed it in 2010 but also in 2011 important for the criteria for Chapter 23 all in effort, and I am sure that this is also with this amendment and the addition of the law to strengthen institutions and to continuously build and strengthen the system. This is what is important and that is what we constantly need to point at the Croatian Parliament. It is my opinion that all three pillars of government therefore both legislative and executive and judicial must be fully and ultimately committed to the fight against corruption and the fight against crime, and it is certain that it is always the current policy that those in power have to dictate the pace and must do everything to make sure that the work of independent institutions such as USKOK or such as the State's Attorney's Office takes place in such a way as to respect first and foremost those values and provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia which we have further strengthened in 2010 by the joint amendments when we further strengthened the independent work of the State's Attorney's Office. However, I think that these amendments and additions to the laws that have been introduced and some new instruments clearly show that we have not yet reached the point where we could say that we are satisfied. Namely, we're not gonna use one picture we didn't end up on that devil's tail with corruption. He still very often crawls his tongue, his horns are unable to fall off. Namely, this proves and here is a relatively recent case when one of the closest associates of the State’s attorney - general, or her family, has proved to be in the corruption mud. But also the arrests of some PNUSKOK employees, but I'd say PNUSKOK's official to what we're witnessing these days. So it's actually just saying that corruption is impertinent, but it's just as imaginary and that many further in Croatia who dare to do dishonest deeds actually live on without sides, and it's also about the peaks of those institutions that are also bound by the provisions of the Constitution and the law and the most important in this process and research and also persecution. The confiscation of property, here today is also mentioned in the amendments and additions, but also in today's debate, the confiscation of property to those who have acquired it in an unfair way in an illegal way, I think that the law that we have already passed in 2010 is also an extremely important and powerful instrument in the fight against corruption, but also the Law on the financing of political parties and many others that we have passed in this House of Commons. I support amendments and additions to Article 8 of how that USKOK should not be deprived of any tools, no weapons in the fight against corruption, and I support these changes which, of course, continue. But also changes and additions relating to parliamentary representatives. There were questions here, and how can this actually affect a parliamentary representative? In many ways. Voting, influencing or not to vote hard because, of course, the majority always decides and always acts as a party. But it is possible that since we have come to the Croatian Parliament that we are ultimately paid to speak, to speak publicly and loudly, to give a public and loud warning so it is possible to press a parliamentary representative or representative not to speak or speak differently from what those who have chosen us and what they are asking of us and finally why we are paid. So this is an extremely important message that is also being sent today because no one, regardless of whether a representative in the Croatian Parliament, Minister of the Croatian Government, the judge of any Croatian court must be protected when it comes to the persecution of corruption or the fight against corruption and crime. In this debate, I would also like to say something about Chapter 23, I said something about this when we discussed the report by the attorney general and about what stories about the pressures from the European Commission or from the European Union on the processing of this or that in Croatia. Ever since I was Prime Minister, no one in any conversation has ever asked for the processing of anyone, name and last name in the Republic of Croatia. They were, of course, looking for what is primarily in our interest, which is the process of all those for whom there are indications, a reasonable suspicion that they committed a crime. In conclusion, the fight against corruption and crime is certainly a struggle for the fundamental rights of every man and his freedom, but also for the recovery of the Croatian economy. A country which would be known not to be prosecuted properly, to close its eyes against corruption at times, or that the fight with the fig in the pocket is certainly not and cannot be a desirable country for investors. So with this fight, we should continue in parallel. And certainly for the very end, so politics must continue to act guided by the fundamental principles that no one is untouchable and that anyone can and must be processed, no matter how politically powerful or how rich he is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23856	Thank you very much. Replica, colleague Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23857	What is the speech of former Prime Minister Jadranka, the fight against corruption should not know the limits or limitations, but I don't think it's enough about corruption to say that corruption proven as theft, embezzlement, that it should be sanctioned in a way that was an old saying "unrepentantly stolen, sin unforgivable". We've had processes for some people who are accused of corruption, they've endured prison, but they haven't returned the kuna either. I think it should be returned stolen if proven, and then let those people live on the home budget, not for the benefit of the state and the prison system. The second thing I would warn here is that in general, the Croatian Parliament has been one mega factory of law over the past 20 years. I didn't deal with statistics how many laws were passed, how many commissions were set up, how many agencies were also set up, commissions, and our situation is getting worse. The laws are not implemented, and where this weakest link to law enforcement is, I think the weakest one would appear to me to be crime and corruption that are more organized than the state itself, that they should be intervened there.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23858	Thank you very much. Replication response, colleague Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23859	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I agree with you, Mr. Grubisic, that it is not just enough to speak but to work. I've been doing something, so I think of course about whether or not someone was doing something should have evidence, and I think I can make them older. As for your findings on the need to confiscate the property, I couldn't agree more. That's why we've passed the property confiscation Act because even then at the government's session, I said they're thieves, and I think those who've been embezzled in corruption are actually common thieves who steal someone else's, so the thieves are the most sensitive when they're kicked in the pocket. Then they whine and then they cry. So that's why we have this law that I think will be just as powerful and effective tools and weapons.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23860	Replica, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23861	Mrs. Kosor, you're one topic I don't know whether on purpose, unwittingly, you're talking about a subject very important... and it's political corruption here in the Parliament. The party's discipline, let's remember that HDZ voted unspeakably all the things Mr. Ivo ordered. When the whole public was buzzing about clocks here in the Parliament, everyone was defending it, when journalists wrote about the corruption they were attacked, tapped, secretly tapped without a warrant. It's about political corruption when the party chief is any, I say that political corruption still exists today, and political corruption is the easiest thing to do when party discipline is left and right, when the party chief says you vote for the law. That's what you were talking about, Mrs. Kosor. So there's only one man to bribe when everyone else is obedient. And when we start voting here on our conscience then there won't be any political corruption, when the First Parliament knocks down the government law will begin democracy in parliament. That doesn't mean a fight. This means that the Parliament is a thinking body, that the Parliament is not a doll at the end of which it is conducted over the other side of St. Mark, St. Mark's Square. Mark. Therefore, this is an important topic, and we should once dedicate the thematic session on this, on the work of the Parliament, so that we may no longer be dolls at the end until the parliamentary deputies can, I repeat, vote on their own conscience so long this Parliament will do only the will of the parties.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23862	The answer to the replica of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23863	Thank you very much. Well, I don't agree with you in the part where you said that all of us who were in the leadership of the HDZ then, but also the government voted as Mr Ivo said. No, but on the basis of the decisions of the party bodies, or government decisions, that is, always on the basis of what we are talking about the Government, a minister has proposed as a proposal. So, that prepared his ministry. That's what we decided. And I agree with you, that it would be good if each of the MPs could really vote on every law just the way he thinks they should. And I think we'll wait for that to happen, because that's how the current ruling majority works. I think it is normal, because the government chosen in the Croatian Parliament must always have sufficient support for its projects to implement a particular policy. That is why it is then rewarded or not rewarded in the next parliamentary elections. But it is likely that the time will come that at least some of the representatives in the Croatian Parliament will be able to express themselves at some times, so if it does not agree with the principles that should be addressed by the party's leadership. And I remind you when you talk about it, let's say last year something happened that Mr. Hebrang, who was also the president of the HDZ Club, I was the president of HDZ, for example when the death of Mr. Djura Brodarac was unfortunately written here in the Croatian Parliament, that this is proof that Croatia is going in the wrong direction. And then, of course, nothing happened. When some of my colleagues opposed, when voting on the exclusion of Ivo Sanader from HDZ, three colleagues in the party presidency were against it, the two were abstentions. And nothing happened to them, so the MPs, when we talk about MPs, were still sitting as MPs. In fact, Mr. Bebic remained president of the Croatian Parliament even though he voted against it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23864	Thank you very much. And the replica Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23865	Honored Madam President, Mrs. Kosor. You know what, I'd like something about what's going on in Split would be the tang of Parliamentarians on this bill and so on. It's all right and we're all for it anyway. But you know what? Some things don't make sense to me. Many talk softly in the House, many opposition MPs according to the ruling set act as old parents who have barely had a child in the old days and so on. So it's all kind of a mockery. There's not a single bowl. And now I'm asking myself what I'm going to do with those letters that come to me every day, help me out like this, clear up like this, and who I'm going to ask to the ministers or any other people in the administration who are ruling because then that's corruption. People ask me now in this economic crisis propose this or those laws, about bankruptcy, about not bankruptcy. You know what I mean. Any proposal could be seen as an attempt at political corruption and promoting someone's interests, a group. Well, you, too, rule when you propose laws, every proposal could somehow be put under a bat is corrupt and why you suggest it so. Some things are unclear to me. The only thing that became clear to me was that it shouldn't be more, that it should be turned off, that it should be put on a secret cell phone number. They don't answer to anyone's letters or say anything in this House, and most of them do the right thing. I don't see any other way, because whatever you say, you said could be understood now and put under some say increased corruptive action or corrupt emissions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23866	The answer to the replica of my colleague Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23867	Well, of course you wouldn't understand. So, I disagree with you here, Mr. Marasovic. We are repeatedly paid to speak, but to speak with arguments and I am sure and you do, therefore with arguments contradicting not only suggestions if we are not satisfied with them by the government, but also much broader. But also by sometimes supporting government proposals if they're good, no matter what we're in a position or opposition. Therefore, I think that by introducing this measure to the amendments and the addition of the law, none of us MPs will be damaged. However, I believe that we will be able to speak even more strongly and freely using arguments. Of course, here are many who come to the Croatian Assembly of the current ministers who are sometimes not happy to hear. But, of course, that's the role of every MP, and then the ruling majority. And with the girl's baby, I absolutely disagree, and I think it's kind of a sexist statement, but we'll forgive it.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23868	The final word of the proponent is Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković Kunšt.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23869	Thank you very much. So here I am thanking you for this supportive debate and I would like to take my final word only to resolve this procedural and legal issue whether a person who is legally convicted as a member of a criminal organization or a criminal association has contributed to the prevention or detection of a criminal offence within the criminal organisation and criminal association if such a person is guaranteed a reduction of the sentence. Of course, it is guaranteed a reduction in the penalty, because if it were not guaranteed a reduction in the sentence, such a person would not be motivated at all to give such a statement that would contribute to the detection and prevention of criminal offences. This guarantee has not been established and the Priory, it has its own preconditions and the law has written exactly in what circumstances and under which procedures such reductions will take place. Therefore, if the Director of USKOK duly proposes to the Attorney General an examination of such a witness, if the Attorney General accepts that request and applies for an examination, if the Court accepts the request for an examination of a person who is legally convicted as a member of a criminal organisation and a criminal association for its testimony, if the Court of Justice does not accept such a proposal, the Attorney General may file an appeal and the Supreme Court will decide on that appeal. If this procedure is carried out to the extent that a statement is taken from the person who is on, who is legally convicted as a member of a criminal organisation and a criminal association, it does not mean that he will be immediately reduced to punishment but rather that reduction will take place if he makes an important contribution to the detection and prevention of criminal offences committed within the framework of a criminal organisation or criminal association. Therefore, only then will there be a reduction of his sentence ranging from one-third to two-thirds and therefore this guarantee is a legal standard which has been introduced in exactly the prescribed conditions. Here, I had a need to clarify that because this particular question was raised during the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23870	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I call on my colleagues and colleagues to enter the assembly at 1200 hours because we will vote at 1200 hours on the proposals discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23871	Final draft law amending and supplementing the USKOK Act, second reading, PZ No. 176, the debate on the proposal is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that it is unanimous with 115 votes for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the USKOK Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer. Proposal for a decision to appoint four members of the HRT Supervisory Board. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The Croatian Parliament's Law on HRT appoints four members of the Croatian Supervisory Board on the basis of a proposal from the Committee on Information, Information and Media. Does he want a representative of the board? Yeah. President-in-Office Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23873	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. The Committee on Information, Information and Media discussed the members of the Supervisory Board. He made talks with all the candidates and we discussed two sessions on our proposals. In a session of 25 October, we unanimously proposed, in fact, we elected on behalf of the Committee two members of the Supervisory Board. That's Mr. Dr. Viktor Gotovina, legal expert, professor at the Department of Labour and Social Law. And Goran Krmpotić, financial expert. He works in the government, and he's got a lot of experience on the supervisory boards. At its meeting on 30 November 2012, the Committee on Information, Information and Media proposed a plenary session of two, two members as well. Mrs. Vesna Kusin, you all know her as an experienced journalist, art historian, commentator, editor in many media. She worked as a journalist for the most complex jobs. She was the director of Klovic's court. And the fourth member is Master Drazen Rajkovic, journalist, economic commentator in significant media Globus, Morning, Vecernjak, 24 hours. He's got a lot of experience on the supervisory boards. Practically a multipractice. I repeat, the committee unanimously proposed to the plenary session of these four candidates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2012-11-30-0.u23874	Thank you very much, Mr. President-in-Office of the Committee. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I am concluding the debate and voting on the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Supervisory Board of Croatian Radio Television. Prior to the statement, I note that a qualified majority of MPs are required for a 76-seat decision. By raising our hands, may we please state who is in favour of the proposed decision? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I note that the proposal for a decision has been made, that the decision has been reached unanimously with 114 votes in the text as proposed by the applicant. We have also completed our vote today on processed proposals for the Croatian Parliament's actions. I am scheduled to proceed Tuesday's session, next Tuesday at 9.30 p.m. with a vote on the Republic of Croatia's 2013 Budget. And beyond that, the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes. I want you to have a good weekend, get some rest and start on Monday with the boards. That's when we're done voting. One notice before crossing. The 10th session of the Committee on Regional Development and European Union Funds will be held today on 4 December 2012 at 14:00 in the hall of Janko Draskovica 202, the chairman of the Committee of Honored Representative and Vice-President of the House Dragica Zgrebec. Second notice. We continue to work in continuity without a lunch break, or rest. We've got a lot of work to do to keep it from getting away. We now move on to - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Criminal Crimes, Second Reading, PZ No. 142 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill's proposal in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. These are the provisions of Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on this proposal was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You've received reports from the working bodies in the boxes. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković-Kunšt. Here you go.
